K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says Freemans Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
In 2006, Mrs S opened a catalogue  account  with Freemans and took out a PPI policy  at the 
same time. 
This policy was sold during a phone call with Mrs S and it cost £1.99 per £100 owed on her 
catalogue account. The policy would cover the minimum repayments on her account if she 
couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as some product  cover. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ss complaint. Freemans didnt respond to the adjudicators 
view, so the case has been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in this provisional  decision on Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties  agree that the policy was taken  out in a phone  call and that Freemans 
recommended the policy  to Mrs S. This means Freemans had to make sure that the policy 
was right for Mrs S. And it also had to provide Mrs S with clear  enough information about the 
policy so that she could make an informed decision as to whether the policy would have 
been right for her.
Freemans has provided us with a copy of a sales script which  it says would have been in 
use at the time of Mrs Ss sale. And from what I can see on this document it refers the sales 
person to explain the policy would  cost £1.99  for every £100 on the account  but it doesnt  
make clear  the benefit she would receive if she did claim - it only refers to the minimum 
catalogue payments  would  be paid.  
Due to the time that has passed  since the sale, Freemans no longer has a copy of the credit 
agreement applicable to Mrs S so it isnt clear how Mrs Ss monthly  minimum catalogue 
repayments were calculated. Freemans  has provided various sample agreements which 
seem to show that the minimum  monthly  repayment  varied depending  on the length of time 
chosen to repay the account  for her purchases. So I dont think  Mrs S would have been 
aware of the amount of the repayment that the policy would be covering.
In addition, I cant see that Freemans made  it clear  to Mrs S that she would be charged 
interest on any outstanding balance and that she would have to continue to pay for the 
policy if she was to make a claim. So I dont think Mrs S would have been aware of the true 
cost of the policy.
Ref: DRN00395092I think this would have  mattered to Mrs S as she has told us that she was entitled to at least  
three months sick pay from her employers if she was too ill to work and she says she would 
have received redundancy pay if she lost her job. So, taking into account her other  means, I 
dont think Mrs S would  have thought the policy was value for money if she had fully 
understood the cost.
So overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont  think  Freemans gave clear 
enough information to Mrs S to enable her to decide if the policy  was right for her. And, if it 
had, I dont think she would have taken the policy out as I dont think she would have 
considered it value for money. So I think Mrs S has lost out as a result of what FICL did 
wrong.
putting things right
It isnt clear from the information  provided whether Mrs Ss catalogue account with Freemans 
is still open or if it has been closed. I have therefore provided the instructions for both 
scenarios.
if the catalogue account is open and the PPI policy has or has not been  cancelled
Freemans should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Freemans should find out how much Mrs S would owe on her account if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Freemans should then refund the difference between  what  Mrs S owes  and what she 
would have owed.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Freemans can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Freemans works out what Mrs S would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs S paid more than enough  to clear her balance, Freemans should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mrs S paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs S wouldve  owed Freemans  something on her account.  The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
C.Freemans should tell Mrs S what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Freemans to take off tax from this interest. Freemans  
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
if the catalogue account is closed 
Freemans should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. 
Ref: DRN00395093A.Freemans  should find out how much  Mrs S would have when she closed her catalogue 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Freemans should then refund the difference between  what  Mrs S owed when she 
closed the account and what  she would  have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Freemans can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Freemans  should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Mrs S would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  Freemans works out what Mrs S would have owed  each month without PPI  
she paid more than enough to clear  her balance,  Freemans should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs S paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs S would  have owed Freemans  something on her account. The interest rate 
should again be 8% a year.
D.Freemans  should tell Mrs S what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Freemans to take off tax from this interest. Freemans must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Freemans Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2019
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0039509