K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about Aviva  Health UK Limiteds decision to decline Mrs Js 
claim under their private  medical insurance policy.
background
In October  2018, Mr and Mrs J took out a private medical insurance policy  with Aviva.  The 
policy was subject to a moratorium under which Mr and Mrs J would not be covered for at 
least the first two years for treatment of any condition which existed in the five years before 
the policy started.
In March 2019, Mrs Js GP referred  her to a private  specialist for investigations into her sinus  
problems. Mrs J made a claim under her policy. After obtaining further  information,  Aviva 
declined the claim. It considered that Mrs J had experienced symptoms  of sinusitis before 
the policy began.
Mrs J was unhappy at Avivas decision. She said that her problems hadnt begun  until shortly 
after the policy started,  which was when she first visited  her GP. Aviva wouldnt change  its 
position and so Mr and Mrs J referred  their complaint to us.
Our investigator ultimately  recommended that the complaint should  not be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Aviva  had been entitled  to decline  the claim. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the investigators findings. They said that Mrs J first reported  
sinus problems when  she visited  her GP in November 2018 which was after the policy  had 
started. They said a letter  from her GP confirmed this.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states:
We do not cover  treatment of any pre-existing condition,  or any related condition,  if you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic  tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice  about
that condition  in the five years before you joined the policy.
The medical evidence  shows that Mrs J visited her GP in November 2018, 16 days  after the 
policy started, complaining of chronic sinusitis. The GP record states:
has trialled multiple steroid sprays, regularly rinses with salt water and steam
Ref: DRN02956342Inhalation  causing discomfort and snoring at night time disturbing partner, wakes  up from 
sleep multiple times at night time
Her GP sought to refer Mrs J to a specialist in the NHS. The referral  form, which  was dated 
the same  day as the above consultation,  stated 
chronic sinusitis - persistent disturbed sleep at night time, snoring  and has trialled prolonged 
use of steroid spray  as well as steam inhalation and saline irrigation of sinuses. No active 
infection but causing significant disturbance to daily activities  and partner from loud snoring.
The referral  form also recorded  that Mrs J had been using a nasal spray  treatment for six 
months.
It is clear from this information that, even though Mrs J may have only reported  the problem 
to her GP just after the policy began, she had experienced symptoms of her nasal condition 
for at least six months beforehand. This means her nasal problem was a pre-existing 
condition under the terms of the policy and Aviva was not obliged  to provide cover for its 
treatment.
Mrs J has provided  a letter dated  July 2019 from a different GP at the practice which  says 
that Mrs J had exhibited  symptoms since she presented in November 2018 and that it was 
unclear from the records how long the symptoms had been there beforehand. It may not be 
clear from the GP records exactly when  Mrs Js symptoms began  but Im satisfied shed 
been suffering  them  for at least six months  immediately  before the start of the policy.   
Based on the medical evidence, Im satisfied  it was fair for Aviva to decline Mr and Mrs Js 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020. 
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0295634