K822xcomplaint
Mrs N is unhappy at how long it took RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) to arrange for 
the collection of her car after her hire purchase agreement  came  to an end.
Mrs N had interactions with both RCI and its agent throughout but for simplicitys sake, Ive 
referred only to RCI in this decision.
background 
Mrs N acquired  a car in April 2014 through a hire-purchase  agreement she made  with RCI. 
The agreement ran for three years and gave her the option  to purchase full ownership of the 
car at the end of the term. She decided to return the car. She told the business this in May 
2017 but the car was not collected  until October  2017.
Although Mrs N had given notification that she wanted to return the car, under the terms and 
conditions she was still responsible for ensuring  it was taxed, insured and roadworthy until 
RCI took possession  of it. She says that the process  of collection was subject  to delays and 
that these were caused by RCI. She thinks it should compensate her for this and some  other  
associated expenses. For example, she thinks she should be paid around  £20 a day for 
having stored the vehicle during this time and be paid the administrative costs  associated 
with chasing up RCI by phone and post.
RCI says it wasnt responsible for the delays. It made repeated attempts  to contact Mrs N 
but couldnt do so. Mrs N told us that her working patterns made it difficult  for her to liaise 
with RCI  she worked long shifts  with only a short lunchbreak. 
She also said it was difficult for her to accommodate the fact that RCI was only willing  to 
collect the car if she made herself  available between  8am and 6pm. Mrs N worked  through  
an employment agency and so would  have to sacrifice a days  salary in order to facilitate the 
collection of the car. She was reluctant to do this. She emailed RCI in July and proposed an 
afternoon collection   but she was told there  was no scope for flexibility.
This complaint was looked at by an investigator  who didnt think RCI was responsible  for the 
delays. As a result, she didnt think it needed  to pay Mrs N any compensation. Mrs N 
disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
come to a final decision. 
Mrs N also told the investigator  about end of agreement  charges for exceeding the mileage 
allowance and some  minor damage. These  charges impacted on the total amount 
outstanding under her finance agreement  leaving  her with a debt of £381.12  to RCI. 
I understand the issue regarding the damage  has been resolved and the supplying  
dealership has accepted  responsibility for and paid that excess  mileage charge to Mrs N, so 
I wont comment on these issues in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to a 
different conclusion to that reached by the investigator.
Ref: DRN09162342The agreement Mrs N signed said, in respect  of returning the car that when  we hear from 
you, you will be contacted  so that a mutually  convenient time can be arranged  for the goods 
to be inspected and collected. The agreement  is otherwise silent about the times Mrs N 
needed to make herself available  in order to allow the vehicle to be inspected and collected.
I can see that on two separate occasions  Mrs N proposed a four-hour collection window. 
Given the difficulties  that Mrs N was having to deal with and that theres nothing  in the 
agreement about  collection  times,  I dont think it wouldve  been  unreasonable for RCI to 
attempt to accommodate this request or to propose an alternative  that might  have assisted  
her. I dont  think RCI was the only cause of the delays. I can see from the timeline its 
provided that it was difficult to contact Mrs N throughout June. But I think its failure  to 
accommodate Mrs Ns request without good  reason clearly caused some inconvenience  to 
Mrs N and delayed the process of collecting  the car significantly.
I contacted RCI by email  and explained that I thought it ought  to pay her £300 in 
compensation for the inconvenience that this had caused her. RCI responded to say that it 
would write  off the debt that Mrs N owed of £381.12.  
Mrs N doesnt think this is enough.  She says that I should consider the stress  and 
inconvenience of having to keep  the vehicle on her property  should be considered. I have 
considered what  shes  told us about the impact the situation had on her  but I must strike a 
balance between asking  RCI to pay her fair compensation and not asking it to pay her a 
disproportionately large sum that would be punitive.  Having  considered  all the relevant 
factors, I think £300 represents a reasonable sum. And as RCI is offering to write off a 
greater sum (effectively  allowing her to retain the £381.12 shes  been  paid by the dealership)  
I think RCIs offer is a reasonable one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think the offer made by RCI Financial Services  
Limited to write off Mrs Ns debt of £381.12  is fair. 
If Mrs N accepts my decision, RCI Financial Services Limited should arrange for this to 
happen without  delay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0916234