K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Mr B complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly placed a chronic 
condition exclusion on their private medical  insurance policy.  
background
Mr B has private medical insurance through his employer. Miss H has the benefit of his 
cover too, and this complaint relates to the cover she was provided.
Miss H suffered from back  pain and had been  undergoing  a number of different treatments 
for, and investigations into, it. That included but wasnt limited to, osteopathy, MRI scans, 
specialist consultations,  and pain relieving injections. Given the ongoing nature of that 
treatment, AXA decided  that Miss Hs condition (a lumber  facet  joint issue) was chronic. And 
they gave her two months notice of their intention to categorise  it as such.
Miss H disagreed with that definition and told AXA that she had concerns about one of the 
specialists that had previously treated her; a spinal specialist who was no longer recognised  
by AXA,  but whom Miss H said had been  acting fraudulently and had subsequently been 
barred from practicing. 
Given the nature of Miss Hs concerns, AXA extended the notice period. But Miss H 
remained unhappy and complained about  her condition being  labelled as chronic. Miss H 
said that more  recently a different specialist  had said her pain had actually been stemming 
from a shoulder problem. And she said that her back should not have been treated because 
of that. Miss H also said that AXA had disregarded the management  of her care under  the 
spinal specialist. But AXA maintained their decision to label the condition as chronic,  so 
Miss H and Mr B bought  a complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  think Miss Hs complaint should be upheld and in summary, said AXA 
had made  a fair and reasonable decision in categorising her condition  as chronic. They  
didnt think AXA had done anything wrong in authorising Miss Hs treatment under the spinal 
specialist either. And they said there  wasnt  any evidence to demonstrate that the treatment 
Miss H had received  under that specialist was incorrect  or inappropriate. 
Our investigator also said that whilst  the chronic label meant  any ongoing treatment for 
Miss Hs lumber  facet joint syndrome was now excluded, AXA would still consider claims 
unrelated to that problem and definitive surgery for the problem if it was recommended to 
resolve it.  
But Miss H remained concerned about  AXAs knowledge of the spinal specialist and felt 
shed been unfairly penalised for excessive treatment  under that individual.  So, the matter  
was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can see that Miss H 
feels very strongly about whats happened  in this case, and Id like to thank her for taking the 
time to set out her concerns in such detail. But my findings will only focus on those matters I 
consider central  to the outcome of this complaint,  which  means I might not address every 
point or argument  thats been  raised. I trust that Miss H wont  take that as a matter  of 
discourtesy.
Ref: DRN04292922Miss Hs policy  defines a chronic  condition as follows:
 a disease, illness or injury that has one or more  of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long term monitoring through consultations,  examinations, 
checks-ups and/or  tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back  or is likely to come back
So, in order for me to say that AXA had unreasonably categorised  her back  condition  as 
chronic, Id need  to be satisfied that Miss Hs condition didnt meet any of the characteristics 
cited above. 
It would appear that Miss H experienced back problems in 2016  and had undergone  self-
funded treatment for it. But, she went on to submit a claim under her insurance policy 
towards the end of that year, and continued  to receive treatment in relation to her back 
throughout 2017. At the point AXA decided to categorise her condition as chronic,  Miss H 
had already had a number of different treatments and investigations into her continued back  
pain. 
I set out above  that Miss Hs treatment had included but wasnt  limited  to; osteopathy, 
physiotherapy and pain relieving injections. So, in the circumstances  of this case, I think  that 
her condition did meet some of the characteristics cited  above. Namely, it needed ongoing or 
long term monitoring through consultations, examinations,  check-ups and/or tests. It needed 
ongoing or long term control or relief  of symptoms. And it required  Miss H to be specifically 
trained to cope  with it. 
So Im satisfied that AXA acted reasonably in concluding that Miss Hs condition could be 
considered chronic.  
Miss H says that her back should never have been treated or excluded  from cover because 
it was actually related  to her shoulder.  And I appreciate that a more recent specialist advised 
Miss H of that. But at the point AXA decided to categorise her condition  as chronic, Miss H 
had been receiving treatment on her back for a number of years. AXA had also asked  
Miss H to provide further information  to substantiate  her position in relation to her shoulder. 
But no such  information  was provided.  
So given both the variety and length  of treatment that Miss H had been receiving on her 
back at the time, I still cant  fairly conclude that AXA were  wrong  to have  categorised it as 
chronic. 
Miss H is understandably  concerned about the implications a chronic condition might  have  
on any future claims she makes. AXA have  decided that Miss Hs lumbar facet  joint condition 
is chronic, so they will no longer cover ongoing  treatment for it. But AXA have said that they 
will consider  covering definitive surgery  for Miss Hs condition if it was recommended.  
Miss H can, of course,  make future claims on her policy if she wants to do so. And if she did 
I would expect AXA to assess those claims on their individual merit. But, although I can 
Ref: DRN04292923understand Miss Hs desire to seek reassurance about any future  claims, AXA wont  be in a 
position to assess  a claim until its actually been made. And, it would  only be after a claim 
had been made that they would be in a position to decide whether or not they consider the 
condition being  claimed for related to the chronic  exclusion. So, unfortunately, I cannot 
provide Miss H with the reassurance that she might be after here.
I understand that Miss H is still largely concerned  about the practices of, and the treatment 
she received under,  her spinal specialist. And I understand  that she has ongoing concerns 
about AXA authorising her treatment under that individual too. I appreciate  why Miss H 
would be concerned by what shed heard about the specialist  given shed been receiving 
treatment under them. But, I havent  been  provided with any evidence to demonstrate that 
the specialist was acting in the manner Miss H has described. Nor that AXA should not have 
authorised treatment under that specialist  at the time.
The above  is in no way intended to take anything away from any of the upset that Miss H 
has clearly felt in relation  to this. But there just isnt any evidence to demonstrate  that AXA 
should not have authorised her treatment  under  that specialist.  And so again,  I cant  fairly 
conclude that AXA did anything wrong  here. 
As I set out initially, I can see that Miss H feels very strongly about whats  happened in this 
case. But for all of the above reasons, Im not persuaded that AXA have acted unreasonably 
in this case. So I am unable to uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0429292