K821x#15complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with how Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has handled her tyre and alloy wheel 
insurance claim. 
Mrs E is being represented by Mr E. Any reference to Mrs E includes the comments  of her 
representative. 
background
Mrs E has a tyre and alloy wheel  insurance  policy which  is underwritten  by Lloyds. In                 
July 2018, Mrs E contacted her insurer to make  a claim for kerb damage  to three wheels on 
her car. The wheels were  repaired  in August  2018.
Mrs E said the day after she collected her car, the centre wheel cap came  off one of her front 
wheels. Mrs E thinks the centre cap hadnt  been  properly  secured following the wheels 
repair. So, she thinks Lloyds should  pay for a new one.
Lloyds didnt agree.  It said the technician advised the centre  caps didnt fit properly in the 
first place because they werent made  by the same  manufacturer as the car. It also said the 
caps didnt appear  to be genuine   believing them to be counterfeit.  
Lloyds said that when the car was being  repaired, the cleaning process caused the holes to 
which the cap was fixed to expand and return to their original  size, and this led the centre 
cap no longer fitting properly.  As Mrs E hadnt been  made aware of this, Lloydss offered £20 
as a gesture of goodwill.  It said this reflected the cost of buying one standard  centre cap 
from the manufacturer of her car. 
Mrs E didnt accept Lloyds offer and subsequently bought a wheel cap from the third-party 
manufacturer to match the existing alloys and centre caps  on her car. 
Mrs E brought her complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked  at it and said:
Mrs Es alloys and centre caps are both made  by the third-party manufacturer. She 
didnt think it was reasonable to expect Mrs E to purchase a centre  cap from the cars 
manufacturer as this wouldnt fit the existing alloy or match the other three  wheels.
Shed  not seen  enough to substantiate  Lloyds argument that the centre cap wasnt a 
genuine product  of the third-party  manufacturer. 
She thought  it was unlikely the repairs had exacerbated existing damage so as to 
cause the wheel cap to fall off. 
She wasnt satisfied the cleaning process was the cause of the problem, as the other 
centre caps werent affected. The investigator added  that shed been in touch  with 
the third-party manufacturer who confirmed that stripping paint would not usually 
have a bearing on the issue.   
Lloyds should  pay £45 to cover the cost of the third-party wheel cap Mrs E has 
purchased and pay £25 compensation for the trouble and upset she experienced.
Lloyds disagreed. It said:
Ref: DRN01172682The expert view of the technician who inspected the centre  cap and stated it wasnt a 
genuine product  has been ignored. 
Theres no proof of negligence on behalf of the technicians. 
If the wheel  centre cap had not been  put back on properly, it would have expected it 
to have fallen  off on the journey home from the repairers, not the following  day. 
The underwriters have  advised  that if the vehicle is modified, it would only cover  
parts and repairs to the extent it would have  been liable for in respect of the original 
vehicle (i.e. pre modification).  And so, it wouldnt  be responsible for any costs that 
have come about as a result of changes the insured has made  to the vehicle.
Because the parties disagreed, the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds has said theres no evidence to show the repair company had acted negligently  when 
repairing the damage to Mrs Es wheel. Where there isnt conclusive  evidence, I need to 
decide what is most likely to have happened  based on the available  information. What I do 
know is that Mrs Es car was taken to the repair company to repair  kerb damage  to its alloys 
and wheels. 
Lloyds has said the cleaning process caused the holes to which the centre cap was secured 
to expand, which led to it not fitting properly. I know  that more than one of Mrs Es wheels 
was repaired,  so if this was the cause, Id have expected the other centre  caps to be 
affected, but from what Ive seen  they werent. Also, the manufacturer  of the third-party 
centre caps has said its not aware  of the cleaning  process (including the stripping of paint) 
to cause the holes to enlarge. So, Im not persuaded the centre cap fell off due to the 
cleaning process.   
Lloyds also said if the wheel cap hadnt  been  securely fixed, it would have fallen off during 
Mrs Es journey home  from the repairers, and not the following day. But I dont think this can 
be said with certainty. For example, if the centre cap had been replaced but not securely 
fixed, its not implausible that it wouldnt immediately fall off and would instead gradually 
loosen. Here, the centre cap fell off the next day - only a very short time after the repairs 
were completed. This suggests to me it wasnt properly secured following the repairs.
Lloyds has reasoned that because the centre caps werent made by the same manufacturer 
as Mrs Es car, they didnt fit properly in the first place. Its not in dispute that the alloys and 
wheel caps on Mrs Es vehicle werent  produced by the manufacturer  of her car  but I dont 
think this is relevant. Whats key is that the centre  cap matched the alloy on her car, as it 
ought to. So, whether  it was made  by a third party doesnt have a bearing  on whether the 
centre cap should have fitted or not.
Lloyds other  argument is that the third-party centre caps werent genuine products. But Ive 
not seen any detailed evidence to support this argument. Whereas I have seen  information  
Ref: DRN01172683from the dealership  where Mrs E purchased her car which confirms  genuine third-party  
alloys and centre caps  were supplied at the time of her buying  it. So, Im not persuaded by 
Lloyds argument.  
 
Lloyds has said it only has to repair the car to a pre-modification standard and its suggested 
Mrs E modified her car after purchasing it. But again, it hasnt provided any evidence to 
substantiate this. And as mentioned above, information from the dealership supports the 
position that any modifications  including changing  the alloys and centre caps   were made 
prior to Mrs E purchasing her car. 
Ive then looked at the repair companys website to understand the process for repairing kerb 
damage to alloys  and wheels. The website explains that the car is raised off the ground,  the 
tarnished alloy wheel is removed, and the tyre is deflated. Following the repair  works, the 
tyre is re-inflated, and the alloy wheel is then refitted to the vehicle. 
Because the alloy wheel  must  be removed  to allow for repairs,  I think  its more  likely than not 
that when the alloy wheel  and centre  cap was subsequently  replaced  the centre cap wasnt 
securely fixed in position. And that this ultimately  led to it falling off the next day.
So, Im satisfied Lloyds  engineers made a mistake  when securing the centre cap. As a 
result, Lloyds needs to do more to put things right. It had offered Mrs E £20 to enable  her to 
purchase a centre cap from the same manufacturer as her car, but I dont think this was a 
fair resolution. I say this because Mrs Es alloy is made by a third-party manufacturer, and so 
a centre  cap from the cars manufacturer wouldnt fit it. Even if it did, it would mean the 
centre cap wouldnt match the other ones on her car, so a consistent look wouldnt be 
achieved  and this is what she had prior to the repair being completed.  
So Im directing Lloyds  to reimburse  Mrs E £55.50  (subject to evidence of costs, if it deems 
it necessary) to reflect the cost of her purchasing a centre cap from the third-party 
manufacturer. Our investigator said Lloyds should  also pay £25 compensation to recognise 
the inconvenience Mrs E has experienced. Based on what Mrs E has said, its clear  to me 
this experience has been frustrating for her, so I think this is a fair amount. 
Ref: DRN01172684My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Society of Lloyds  must:
Pay Mrs E £55.50 to cover the cost of purchasing a centre cap from the third-party 
supplier. Plus 8% simple interest from the date Mrs E bought the centre  cap to when 
payment is made (subject to proof of costs).1
Pay £25 compensation to Mrs E if its not already  done  so. The Society  of Lloyds 
must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs E 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman 
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires The Society  of Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest. The 
Society of Lloyds must give Mrs E a certification showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN0117268