K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W complaints  that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to close her credit card 
when she asked them to. She says this resulted in her being  offered a lower credit  limit on a 
new card and caused her financial  issues.
Background
Mrs W held a credit card with Halifax. In July 2018, she cleared the balance  in full and called 
Halifax to request her account to be closed immediately. Mrs W confirms  she was told the 
card could take around four weeks  to be updated on her credit file. Mrs W planned  her 
finances around this four week wait time before applying for a new credit card with another 
provider.
Mrs W applied  for her new credit card and was disappointed to receive a credit  limit of less 
than £3,000. Mrs W says the other provider confirmed to her the lower credit limit was due to 
her Halifax  credit card still being open.
Mrs W complained  to Halifax in September 2018. Halifax  said they had no record of Mrs Ws 
request to close her account, however they accepted her version of events. They closed the 
account with immediate effect  and paid Mrs W £20 compensation for the inconvenience.
An adjudicator looked at Mrs Ws complaint and thought the £20 compensation was enough.  
He said there was no record of Mrs W calling Halifax to close  the account and wasnt  
satisfied, based  on Mrs Ws credit  report, that shed applied for another card with a different 
provider. Mrs W remained unhappy and escalated her complaint within  our service. 
An investigator reviewed  the complaint and agreed  that Halifax had acted appropriately  in 
the circumstances. She said that despite no evidence of the calls Mrs W says she made to 
Halifax in July 2018, Halifax had accepted Mrs Ws version of events, so it didnt make an 
overall difference. The investigator explained  that she couldnt fairly conclude  the lower 
credit limit Mrs W received was a direct fault of Halifax not closing the credit card in 
July 2018. She also thought £20 compensation was fair so didnt ask Halifax to do anything.
Mrs W disagreed  so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. I know this will come as a great  disappointment to Mrs W, so Ive 
explained my reasons  further below.
Mrs W says she called Halifax in July 2018  to close her credit card account  with them. While 
I havent seen  any evidence of that call, Halifax have accepted this did happen. Therefore, 
my decision  will focus on whether Halifax has done  enough to put things right for Mrs W.
I appreciate Mrs Ws concern that the new credit  card she applied came  with a much lower 
credit limit than she anticipated.  And I understand why Mrs W places  blame on Halifax for 
this. However, a credit card provider must consider  several factors  when  deciding  to lend. 
Because of this, I cant safely conclude that if Mrs Ws Halifax card had been  closed  in 
Ref: DRN09531452July 2018, she would  have received the desired amount of credit  from the other credit card 
provider. 
The investigator helpfully reached out to the other credit card provider to see if they could 
confirm a reason  for Mrs Ws lower credit limit. Unfortunately, due to internal lending 
changes they couldnt provide us with an explanation. Therefore, without this evidence,  it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold Halifax responsible for another  lenders decision.
In September  2018 Mrs W made Halifax aware  of her concern that the credit  card was still 
open. Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, Halifax  acted promptly  to put things 
right by closing the account and updating  the Credit Reference Agencies without delay. They  
also paid Mrs W £20 compensation for the inconvenience. 
I recognise Mrs W doesnt think £20 compensation is enough. Shes explained  the further 
interest charges  shes incurred because of the lower credit card limit and the financial 
restraints shes faced due to her responsibilities of being a carer  for a family member.  I dont  
doubt this has been a difficult  and frustrating time for her. However, Ive explained above 
why I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for another  providers lending decision. So, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask Halifax to pay additional compensation due to factors relating 
to a lower credit limit being offered by another bank.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax dealt with Mrs Ws complaint and request efficiently once they 
became aware  of it. And I think  £20 compensation is enough to recognise  the inconvenience  
of them  not closing the credit card in July 2018, despite no evidence of a request. So, I wont  
be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Hayley West
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0953145