K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Ms J and Mr J say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Ms J and Mr J applied  for a further advance on their mortgage with Santander in April 2002. 
At the same time they were sold a PPI policy.  The policy  covered Ms J and Mr J against 
being unable  to work due to accident, sickness  or involuntary unemployment.  The monthly 
cost of the PPI policy was £31.10.  the policy benefit was £515. The cover was split to 
provide 70% of the benefit to Mr J and 30% to Ms J. In the event of a claim the policy 
couldve paid the monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim.
In 2005 Ms J and Mr J cancelled the policy.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Ms J and Mr J disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So, the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander hasnt  got copies of all the paperwork that was completed at the time of the 
mortgage. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by 
since the sale took place. But where  there  is limited  information, I will make my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened, taking  into account the evidence available,  
what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
From experience I think the type of form used at the time of the sale would  have given       
Ms J and Mr J a choice about whether to take the PPI and the level of cover they required. 
Ive also seen a copy of a welcome letter addressed  to Ms J and Mr J that confirmed the 
cover that had been put in place.  
I note the policy remained in place until 2005 and it was paid for separately to the mortgage 
by direct debit. So, I think Ms J and Mr J would have  been aware they were  paying for the 
policy. If it was something that had not been  discussed or that Ms J and Mr J didnt want, Id 
expect them to have  questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not seen  any evidence that they 
did so.
All this makes me think that Ms J and Mr J were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this after so long.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Ms J and Mr J so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
Ref: DRN08063452The policy was set up to cover both Ms J and Mr J. From what Ive seen they were both 
eligible for the policy. And they were not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cove, for instance theyve told us they didnt have any existing medical conditions that 
would not have been covered.
Ms J and Mr J have  told they would have  received  some sick pay if they couldnt work. But 
the PPI policy  could have paid them a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  if either became 
too unwell  to work. So I still think  they would have found it useful, particularly if they became 
unable to work for a prolonged period of time.
The policy would also have paid a monthly  benefit  if Ms J or Mr J had lost their job. Meaning  
they could use any redundancy  pay for other living expenses.
Ms J and Mr J had some savings, but as they chose to keep the savings rather than use 
them to reduce their mortgage I think the savings  were important to them. And the policy 
would have helped  them to keep the savings intact  if things went wrong.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Ms J and Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.         
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Santander made Ms J and Mr J aware the policy was optional  
and they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  Santander 
recommended was right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information 
wouldve made them act differently and decline it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0806345