K820x#14complaint
Mr U is unhappy with the service he received from Jelf Insurance Brokers  Limited  in respect  
of a quote for Legal Expenses/Contents insurance.
background
In August  2018  Mr U visited Jelfs  offices to ask about a quote  for legal expenses insurance 
with a contents policy. The adviser said he would  look into the matter.  Mr U had no contact 
with Jelf again until early October as he was looking for accommodation. At that stage it was 
agreed that he would provide details of the property he was living in. He gave  this on 18 
October. The adviser looked at getting some quotes  for Mr U but ultimately advised him on 
31 October that Jelfs  private client business had been sold to another broker at the end of 
September. Mr U was unhappy and doubted Jelfs story  about  the sale of its private client 
business and demanded that it get a quote for him. Jelf apologised for the poor service and 
explained it couldnt help him any further.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said that Jelf had dealt with the matter  reasonably.
In response Mr U said he was unhappy  with that  he felt we shouldnt  take Jelfs  
explanations at face value. He said that he had been in contact with Jelf a number of times 
and we should obtain the call recordings.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its been difficult for us to investigate this complaint as there isnt a formal  file relating to 
Mr U, just the emails exchanged and a few notes.  I should explain at this stage that Jelf 
doesnt record its telephone calls and there are no notes of chasing phone calls. But it isnt 
required to do so by the regulations concerning insurance/broking business. I have however 
considered Mr Us records of phone calls he made  to Jelf.
I understand that Mr U came to Jelfs office in August 2018. He wanted to enquire 
particularly about  a legal expenses policy. He had had bad experiences with landlords  in the 
past so wanted legal cover. He understood that the legal  expenses policy  had to be attached 
to a contents policy. I understand that the adviser  agreed to consider the matter and call 
Mr U back.
Its clear that no policy could be put in place or quoted for until Mr U obtained  
accommodation. He called Jelf on 3 October,  that call lasted 12 seconds, I dont know 
whether a call back was promised. It appears  that there was a meaningful  conversation on 
8 October (lasting 2 mins  13 secs). I assume  that Mr U was asked to obtain details of the 
property he would be living in. I say this as in his email of 18 October  he said he had finally 
received the answers to the questions concerning the building.  After that it appears that the 
adviser did attempt  to contact underwriters  for a quote but ultimately  told Mr U on 31 October  
that it could only provide  commercial insurance for businesses.
 
As the sale of the private client business took place  at the end of September  Jelf should 
have told Mr U this on 8 October. I dont think it could have taken any action before then as 
Ref: DRN08227942Mr U was looking for accommodation. So I think Mr Us time was wasted over the three 
weeks.
Jelf apologised  for the service given. I have considered whether it could have done anything 
further. Mr U made it clear in his complaint to this service that he doubted  what Jelf has said,  
and that the resolution he sought  was for it to provide  a quote. I should explain that this 
service is an informal  dispute  resolution service.  I dont think  I need to investigate  further  
whether Jelf had in fact sold that side of its business. In any event having looked  at its 
website it doesnt  appear to offer the sort of policy Mr U would have needed. So I think  it 
reasonable to accept  that it could no longer offer a quote for a policy to Mr U. Given that I 
cant require it to quote for business  it no longer carries out.
I note that Mr U was in touch with other  insurance brokers,  so I dont think  he was unduly  
prejudiced by Jelfs  failure of service. So though I can understand his annoyance with that 
service, I dont  think it appropriate for me to require it to take any other  action.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0822794