K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc didnt pay her the money it offered when she 
opened a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) and paid money into this. She 
is also unhappy that her money was left as cash rather than invested and with the service  
provided by Santander when looking into the points she raised. 
background
Mrs W had an existing account with Santander on its Investment  Hub when she received  an 
email in October 2017 about investing through the Hub which  referred to receiving cashback.  
She then opened  a stocks and shares  ISA and paid £10,000 into this followed  by monthly 
payments of £100.
She didnt  get the cashback  she thought she shouldve done  and queried this with 
Santander. It provided an initial response  that explained that the £10,000 payment she had 
made into her ISA hadnt been invested  in a fund but had remained as cash so she wasnt 
entitled to the cashback. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this response and went back to Santander about this on 17 
October 2018. She also said she was unhappy  about the fact her money had remained as 
cash earning minimal interest.  She asked  why she had been charged a fee if there  was no 
investment and pointed to the fact she had actually received cashback but that this was only 
£1.
Santander issued  a Final Response Letter dated  24 October 2018. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It explained that when the ISA account is opened the money put into it is held as 
cash until the customer selects a fund they want to invest in and that the terms and 
conditions explained  what the cash account was. 
It also said the platform service fee isnt for the management of her investments but for 
administration costs  such as providing statements. It said the cashback offer made clear that 
money held as cash wasnt eligible for the offer. 
But Mrs W sent a letter dated  30 November 2018  saying she hadnt received a reply to her 
letter of 17 October 2018.  In response to this Santander issued a further  letter dated 6 
December 2018  in which it said its original decision set out in its letter of 24 October was 
unchanged. It also answered  a query  Mrs W had raised with regard  to a reference to a 
corporate action  in her online account and explained what she needed to do to withdraw the 
remaining balance on her account.
Mrs W says she also didnt receive  this letter. She chased for a response to her letters  on 17 
January 2019  and Santander responded to this by letter dated 24 January 2019  which  
referred to the original  decision  letter  of 24 October 2018 and subsequent letter of 6 
December 2018  and said its decision remained unchanged.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In short he said the 
following:
The cashback terms and conditions made  it clear that to qualify for the cashback Mrs 
W had to pay into an investment and that cash isnt eligible.
Ref: DRN05381002The Investment Hubs  terms and conditions show that when a stocks and shares ISA 
is opened a cash  account is automatically opened within  the ISA and this allows  
customers to transfer money  to the ISA until they decide which fund/s they want  to 
invest in.
Mrs W never qualified for the cashback  offer because  her money was held as cash.
The cashback of £1.00 she received related to £150 she did actually invest.
If she contacts  Santander the £0.01 remaining in her account can be paid to her and 
the account will be cleared.
Santander addressed her concerns  in a timely manner.  Santanders  letters of 24 
October 2018 and 6 December 2018  were  properly addressed  and he cant  hold it 
responsible for these  not being  received.
The service received from Santander in relation to the concerns she raised wasnt  
unsatisfactory.
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator  and made the following points:
Both of the letters that Santander said it sent but she didnt receive were sent from a 
different address to the one she had written to. She questioned why Santander 
couldnt have  sent a letter by tracked delivery  once she made it aware  she hadnt 
received the letter. 
Santander should evidence the letters  were  actually sent.
She doesnt believe she received a copy of the cashback terms and conditions 
although the promotion email  refers to terms and conditions.
She wasnt given the information she needed  as there  was nothing to show  there 
was a difference investing in the cash account  and other investments.
She accepts her ISA account didnt come  with advice but an instruction couldve 
been given informing her that the money  she had invested in her stocks and shares 
ISA was sitting as cash and needed to be in a fund for her to get the cashback.
The statement in the cashback terms and conditions that money held as cash wasnt 
eligible was clear  but this wasnt provided  to her.
There was a letter in her online document library relating to the transfer out of her 
ISA which was never sent to her which is evidence of another letter not sent to her.
She has twice asked for her accounts to be closed after transferring all the money  
and Santander  didnt do this and now there is interest of £0.01 on her account.
The first statement she received showing her accounts with Santander show a cash  
account, investment  account and stocks and shares  ISA account. The £10,000  she 
paid in is shown  in that ISA account and there is nothing to suggest a second cash  
account for the ISA.
She accepts the money wasnt allocated to a fund as it shouldve been  and so 
doesnt qualify  for cashback but the cash aspect of the money  she paid into the ISA 
wasnt clear.
She doesnt understand why Santander rounded up the cashback on the small 
amount she did invest whilst  refusing to pay her the cashback for the rest of the 
money she put into the ISA. 
As Mrs W didnt agree  with the investigator  the matter has been  referred  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05381003I acknowledge that Mrs W feels strongly that Santander has done something  wrong,  strongly 
enough to move her accounts from it to another provider. I understand why she feels  that 
way but having considered the evidence Im not persuaded  Santander  has done anything  
wrong.
The terms and conditions  that apply to accounts - and which  Mrs W is subject  to - on the 
Investment Hub state that:
4.5 All cleared  single lump sum payments will initially  be allocated  as cash in your ISA 
and/or Investment account.  
So I think she was given  the information she needed about how the lump sum payment of 
£10,000 into her ISA would be held on her account.
Cash is not an investment  so a lump sum payment of £10,000  into a stocks  and shares ISA 
held as cash isnt an investment.  It was for Mrs W to decide how she wanted this money 
invested not for Santander to choose  what she should invest  in  it wasnt providing an 
advisory service to her. So Santander  isnt responsible for her money  remaining  as cash in 
her ISA earning very little in interest.  
The email  sent to Mrs W offering the possibility of cashback if she invested was headed 
Introducing the Investment Hub - although  as I have said she already had investments on 
the Hub. The email  includes the following statements:
If youre comfortable making your own investment decisions, the Investment Hub lets you 
take control of how you invest
And
You can choose from a variety of funds  from across the market  and also from Santander 
Asset Management UK Limited.
The email  goes on to state:
You can get up to £100 cashback when you invest with us between 10 September  2017 
and 16 November 2017.  
It is then stated that that terms and conditions apply and this is repeated  later in the email.
As I have said, cash in an account isnt an investment. The email made specific  reference  to 
choosing from a variety of funds. It was for Mrs W to decide  what she wanted to invest in. 
She has said that she thought Santander  would invest her money and she would then 
choose what she wanted to do. But as I have said it was for her to choose what she invested  
in.
Im not persuaded that the email was misleading bearing in mind Mrs W was subject  to the 
Investment Hubs terms and conditions which made clear a lump sum payment into an ISA 
would be held as cash.
There were also terms and conditions that applied to the cashback offer. These  were  not in 
the email but Santander said there  was link in the email to them. Given  there were two 
Ref: DRN05381004references in the email  to the terms and conditions I think it is reasonable to expect Mrs W to 
have considered these before opening her ISA account and depositing £10,000 into thinking 
she would  get the cashback.
The terms and conditions  of the cashback offer make it clear that to be eligible for the 
cashback Mrs W needed to pay money into an investment arranged by Santander or chosen 
from the funds available on the investment hub. The terms specifically states:
Please note that money held as cash on the Investment Hub is not eligible.
In the circumstances I dont think Mrs W was misled about her entitlement  to the cashback  
and Im satisfied she had access to the information she needed to understand  she wasnt  
entitled to this.
Mrs W is also unhappy with the way that Santander  handled her enquiries and complaint. I 
understand why she has formed that view given  as far as she is concerned it didnt respond 
to letters  she sent. I accept she didnt get the FRL dated 24 October 2018 or the further  letter 
of 6 December  2018 given she wrote  to Santander chasing a response  to her letters.
 
This must have been frustrating for her. But the letters Santander has provided show these 
were properly addressed.  Santander has explained that these letters  will have been sent 
from the complaints  department who produce them  as word documents and then put them in 
the post. I have  no reason to think that having created the letters  these werent then sent to 
Mrs W. 
I note Mrs W has referred to another letter in her online  account  which  wasnt sent to her. 
But Santander has explained letters relating  to activity in her Hub account are automatically 
generated not drafted  and are nothing to do with the letters created in relation to her 
complaint.
I accept Santander  could have done  something different like sending  letters  by tracked post 
when she didnt get the first letter. But I dont think it was required to do this. So I dont think  
Santander failed  to deal with her enquiries and complaint inappropriately.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0538100