K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Santander  UK Plc, (trading as Abbey National), mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance, (PPI),  policy.
background
Miss S bought  the monthly-premium policy  during a meeting in 2001 at the same time as 
taking out a personal loan. Initially the premiums  were about £19 a month.  And the monthly  
payments following a successful claim would have  been about  £125.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Miss S disagreed  
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
followed this in deciding  Miss S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss S says that there was nothing on the paperwork to indicate  that the PPI had been 
added to her account. Nor had there been  any discussion about the insurance at the 
time of the sale. However, I think that Miss S knew that the policy  was optional and that 
she chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a sample of the loan application form 
that Santander says was in use at the time.  This has a section dealing  with PPI that has 
two equally prominent statements - one to be ticked to request the policy and the other to 
be ticked to decline it. As the insurance  was put in place, I think  that it is reasonable to 
assume that the first statement to which Ive referred was ticked. It may have been 
Santanders representative who completed  the form this way. But, if so, I think  its most 
likely that that would have been  after discussing  Miss S wishes  with her and before 
handing her the form to sign.
Ive also seen the loan agreement signed by Miss S. This gives  details of the loan, the 
interest charged on it and the monthly repayments. It also separately shows the monthly 
PPI premiums.
Because of the time that has passed, I can understand why Miss S no longer remembers 
the detail of the paperwork she signed.
Santander advised Miss S to take the policy. This means  that it had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable  for her. Knowing  what  I do about her circumstances 
at the time and the terms and conditions  of the PPI, I find that it was suitable  because:
oMiss S was eligible for the policy;
oMiss S wasnt caught by any of the policys  main  limitations  and restrictions   such as 
those affecting  someone  who had a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN00329152oMiss S has told us that she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer. But following 
a successful claim the PPI would  have paid the monthly amounts  due from Miss S to 
Santander under her loan agreement. These  payments  would have been  made  for 
up to 12 months had she not been  working because  she had become involuntarily 
unemployed. And would have continued  until the end of the loan term, or her return 
to work, if earlier, in the case of her having  had an illness or suffered an accident.  So 
I think that the insurance could have been of use to Miss S.
Miss S told us that a family member would have helped her had she been  unable to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. But weve set out our general 
approach to this sort of potential  assistance  on our website. And I havent found 
anything in Miss Ss complaint to make me deviate from that;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar policies available  in 
the market at the time. And I havent  seen  anything to suggest that at the time she 
bought it Miss S couldnt afford the premiums.  In any event,  as the policy was paid 
for monthly, Miss S could  have  cancelled the policy at any time without further cost 
had she later felt that it was unaffordable or she no longer  wanted it.
As Ive mentioned,  Miss Ss loan agreement set out the monthly PPI premiums.  I dont know 
what else Santander told Miss S about  the policy. Its possible that it may not have told her 
everything else that it ought  to have so that she could make  an informed decision whether to 
take it or not. But, from what  Ive concluded above, I dont think  that clearer information 
would have changed her mind  and stopped  her taking the PPI. This means that Santander  
doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Santander does  intend to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share,  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium), - so it should have told Miss S about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Miss S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander intends to offer to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Miss S any commission and profit share  it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Miss S any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Miss S the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Miss S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss S can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN00329153my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms S any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0032915