K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) gave her incorrect  information about 
payments made to her account.
background
The investigator has set out the facts in some  detail in her opinion and I trust both parties will 
understand there is no need to rehearse these here, but the following is a brief summary of 
the key events. 
.
Miss K holds a credit card account with BoS which appears to be used predominantly for 
gambling. In early December 2018 she made  three payments into the account  of £1,800, 
£1,000 and £1,500.  She was also expecting a payment from an online merchant. She made  
eight calls to BoS between 7th and 18th December seeking confirmation  that the payments 
had been credited to her account. 
On the first two calls she was told the payments had yet to be credited, but that such  
payments can take several days to work through the system. She also asked if the card 
could be blocked  for gambling transactions, but was told that the only solution was to close 
the account.
In the subsequent calls Miss K was told the money  hadnt been received and it was 
suggested she contact  her bank from which the payments had been made. She also spoke 
to the online  merchant. She asked for statement to be emailed and was told that she could  
access her account online.  On 18 December when the money  apparently still hadnt been  
credited she raised  a complaint.
BoS apologised and said that due to the large  number of transactions on the account  the call 
handlers hadnt been able to see the incoming  payments which had in fact been  credited. It 
said they should have been  aware  of this and made further efforts to trace the payments. It 
offered Miss K £150 compensation.  Miss K said she had spent a further £5,050 as a result of 
the confusion  and asked that BoS cover  that expenditure. It refused and so Miss K brought 
her complaint to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld in part. She 
said that the call handlers should have been able to interrogate the systems to give Miss K 
accurate answers  to the questions she had raised.  She said she could understand that Miss 
K might have thought her available balance  was greater than it was, but she didnt think  it 
appropriate for BoS to refund the £5,050 she had requested.  Miss K had authorised and had 
the benefit of these  transactions  and there  was no basis for the bank  covering  the 
expenditure.
The bank didnt  agree  and it said it believed  the compensation it had offered of £150  was 
fair. It had also paid £12 to cover call costs. It said that it was reasonable to expect a 
customer to keep track of their account and she could have checked her balance online if 
she so wished. It felt the amount it had paid was more than normal, but it had been  
increased because  of the number of times incorrect information had been given to Miss K.
Ref: DRN08618232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K was making multiple transactions on a daily basis and I can understand that she 
didnt know exactly what her balance  was. That said I believe there  is some  onus on the 
customer to keep track of their spending,  but the bank should give accurate information 
when the customer  asks for it.
It is clear that Miss K was concerned about  her account and she was worried  by the money 
she had deposited  not being credited.  To that end she called  eight times  and also checked 
with her bank and with the online merchant. I am satisfied  that the failure of the money to 
appear caused her a significant amount of worry.
It is not clear  why she didnt make  use of the ability to check her account  online, but 
nonetheless she had a reasonable expectation  that the bank would give her accurate 
information when  she called. I appreciate the bank considers the level of compensation it 
has paid to be greater  than normal due to the number of errors. However, I dont think  it has 
fully appreciated  the distress caused  and the worry Miss K went through over some 10 days.
For that I dont consider  £150 to be fair or reasonable. I agree with the investigator  that the 
sum should be increased to £250. As for the £5,050 Miss K says she spent as result of being  
given incorrect information  I cannot say that this should be paid by the bank. She authorised  
the spending and has had the benefit of it and so I dont believe the bank should pay it. I 
appreciate she is facing some financial difficulty and I would take the opportunity to remind  
the bank that it should work  with Miss K positively and sympathetically if she seeks help.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Bank of Scotland  plc to pay Miss 
K £250 compensation to include any payments already made. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept  or reject my decision 
before 24 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0861823