K820x#14complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the term assurance  policy that was sold to her by Abbey  Life 
Assurance Company  Limited.
Background
In 1998, Ms L took out a term assurance policy that covered her for 15 years  and wouldve 
paid out £100,000 if she died or had a terminal illness.  This was later amended   to cover 
her for 22 years. 
Ms L is unhappy with her term assurance. She said she paid into the policy for 20 years  and 
thought it would pay out at the end  if she had known it didnt, she wouldve cancelled it 
sooner. She also thought she was covered for an incurable illness,  which she has  but she 
now understands thats not the case.  
Abbey Life replied to Ms Ls concerns and said that her policy  illustration, which wouldve 
been given when she took out the policy, clearly  shows there was no cash  in value. It added  
that in March 2009, further to a call from Ms L, it confirmed again  that there was no cash in 
value. 
Our investigator thought that Abbey Life had acted fairly. Ms L disagreed, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Abbey Life has provided some of their records from when Ms L took out the policy in 1998. 
Of particular note is the Planning Your Future Recommendation Report, addressed  to 
Ms L. This said that she chose to take out term assurance for 15 years,  because  she needed 
temporary life assurance. It also stated that shed been made  aware that the plan will never 
acquire a cash value.  
Abbey Life has also given us a record  of a request to change the policy, signed by Ms L  to 
cover her for 22 years,  instead of 15 years. With this, theres a term assurance illustration 
that was prepared for Ms L that said WARNING   this plan has no cash-in value at any 
time. 
Ive also seen a letter addressed to Ms L from 2009, which references an earlier phone call. 
This said Surrender  value Not Applicable. 
So taking this all into account,  I think Abbey  Life made it clear  to Ms L that she wouldnt get a 
pay-out if she surrendered the policy. Thats typical for life assurance policies that cover you 
for a certain period  of time  which  are often recommended  for those with dependents,  as I 
note was the case here. Whole-of-life policies (so those that pay out no matter when you die) 
can have a cash-in value if you surrender the policy early   but theyre  usually more  
expensive, and often  the benefit youd get and the premiums youd pay arent guaranteed. 
Ms L says she thought  her policy covered her if she had an incurable illness.  Ive reviewed 
the documents from the time  so the Planning Your  Future  Recommendation Report and 
Ref: DRN05772722the Key Features  and Policy Conditions. And these didnt give the expectation  that shed be 
covered for an incurable illness. Similarly, theres no suggestion of this in any of the 
documents from later years. Ms Ls policy did cover her upon diagnosis  of a terminal illness 
where shed less than twelve  months to live. 
I know this means a lot to Ms L, and that she strongly feels she should get back what  shes 
paid. But I could only ask Abbey Life to put things right if I was satisfied it had done 
something wrong. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded thats the case 
here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0577272