K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly refused 
to transfer their existing  home contents  insurance  to a new property. They  want  
compensation for this.
background
Mr F contacted RSA to say that he was moving  home, and wanted to transfer  his existing 
contents insurance to a new address,  which was a rented property.
RSA said the policy  Mr and Mrs F had wasnt available for tenanted properties as it 
contained types of cover  in particular home emergency cover  that werent appropriate in 
a rented property,  as such things would be the responsibility of the landlord.
Mr F raised  several  arguments about  the way the policy was worded and insisted it did cover 
tenanted property.  He went on to say that if the policy was badly worded then any 
interpretation of this should be in his favour,  as RSA had written  the policy.
RSA acknowledged  that there were errors in the policy  booklet  which  it hadnt yet removed. 
But it said, once Mr and Mrs F told it they were moving house, it was entitled to review  the 
cover they had and decide if it could transfer  that cover to the new home. And it maintained  it 
wasnt prepared to do that.
Mr and Mrs F arent happy about that, and brought  their complaint to this service.  
Our investigator agreed with RSA. She thought the over-riding argument  was that RSA had 
a choice about whether it wanted to continue to insure Mr and Mrs Fs contents at the new 
home  and it decided it wouldnt  do that as the old policy wasnt  suitable.
Mr and Mrs F raised a number of points  about  the drafting of the policy,  but these  didnt 
change our investigators mind.
Ive now been  asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. Im not going to comment on every 
point Mr and Mrs F have  made, although I have read everything they sent.  Instead  Im going 
to concentrate on the main points as I see them.
Mr and Mrs F have  sent us a lot of comments on way the insurance policy is written, and say 
it clearly does say it covers rented properties.  And RSA has agreed the policy  contains  
errors  in that it mentions  cover for rented  properties when  it shouldnt.  But I dont think  this 
is the crux of the issue. I say that bearing in mind that this service looks  at whats  happened  
in particular circumstances, and whether any mistakes made by RSA have had a detrimental 
effect on Mr and Mrs F.
Ref: DRN04283362The wording  of the policy may not be as good as it could be, and RSA has acknowledged 
that. So Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs F suffered a loss because  of this. I dont 
think they did  as far as I know they never made a claim, so the wording wasnt  tested. 
I think the key issue  is that, once  Mr and Mrs F told RSA they were  moving  home, they were 
unhappy that RSA wouldnt move the existing policy to the new address. But RSA is entitled 
to make a commercial decision about  whether  it wanted to continue  to insure Mr and Mrs Fs 
belongings. And I dont  think, overall, how the policy was worded affects that. It contains no 
promise to transfer  the policy to any address Mr and Mrs F choose  no policy  Ive seen 
does that, because theres  always  a new level of risk for an insurer to assess in these 
circumstances.
RSA has sent us a copy of its underwriting guidance   which  says the particular policy Mr 
and Mrs F had isnt available for people living in rented accommodation.  Thats largely 
because it includes home emergency cover which attracts an additional premium. RSA says 
it cant exclude that part of the cover and its not fair to charge Mr and Mrs F for something 
they could never use. I think thats  reasonable  looking at it the other  way round, if RSA 
charged customers for whole parts of policies they could never claim under, that would 
become a reason for complaint. 
I appreciate Mr F told RSA he was willing to pay for the home emergency cover even though 
he could never use it, but RSA doesnt have to accept that offer  and didnt. 
I accept Mr and Mrs F had to buy a policy from a different supplier, but thats  not an unusual 
thing to do when  moving home or renewing  a policy.
Weve already told Mr F he may be able to take his complaint about the wording of the policy 
to the Financial Conduct Authority if he wishes, and Ill leave that decision with him and 
Mrs F.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0428336