K820x#14complaint
Ms O and Mr O complain  about how Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) have handled their joint 
mortgage account. They divorced some years ago and want  Mr O to be removed  from the 
mortgage account. In addition,  Ms O is concerned that the balance  of the account is too high 
and that shes  been overcharged interest.
background
Ms O and Mr O took out their mortgage  with BoS when they were together. They  then 
separated and Mr O moved out of the property. They were formally  divorced around five 
years ago. As part of their separation they agreed that in return for Ms O paying a lump  sum 
to Mr O, he would have  no further  interest in the property. And they agreed that Ms O would 
try to have him removed  from the mortgage and would pay the mortgage in the meantime   
failing which the property would be sold. This agreement  was confirmed in a court  order.
Meanwhile, Ms O was struggling  to maintain the mortgage on her own. Arrears  built up and 
in 2014 BoS took repossession action. A court issued a suspended possession order and to 
assist Ms O, BoS agreed  to convert the mortgage to interest  only terms to reduce the 
monthly payments.
Ms O has, since then, been able to maintain the monthly payments without further arrears. 
Shes applied  several  times to take the mortgage over in her own name.  Most  recently,  in 
2018, she applied  to do that and to take some  further borrowing. BoS agreed to allow her to 
take the mortgage over, but wouldnt agree any further borrowing.
However, the change  couldnt go through. Thats because it required the completion of a 
new mortgage agreement. And it required the registration of a new legal charge over the 
property, this time in Ms Os sole name.  But there was a restriction on the property  in respect 
of a separate debt owed by Ms O. Her solicitors  couldnt get the creditor  of that debt to agree 
to allow  their charge  to be postponed  in favour  of BoS so that BoS could continue  to hold 
first charge.  So the transfer couldnt go ahead.  It seems that the debt was due to be repaid in 
a few months, so BoS said Ms O could  re-apply once  it was cleared.
Ms O complained. She said it wasnt fair that BoS wouldnt agree to the transfer, and 
wouldnt agree  to lend her the money she needed  to clear the other debt.  She also said that 
the balance of the mortgage was too high and hadnt been reducing as it should have done 
over the years.  Shed  paid far more  in interest than she needed  to have done and the 
balance should  be much lower by now.  BoS should have offered her a new lower interest 
rate. And she said BoS had marked the account  as in dispute and wouldnt agree to any 
changes to the mortgage without agreement from both her and Mr O. 
Mr O also joined the complaint. He also wanted to be removed from the mortgage. But he 
said that he wasnt prepared to agree to any other changes to it that could affect his position 
until that had been done.
Our investigator didnt  think BoS had acted unfairly. Ms O didnt agree, and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN01745672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the history of this mortgage, and the concerns Ms O has raised  about  
the balance  and in particular the level of interest thats been paid over the years, and the 
fall in the balance thats happened as a result.
The mortgage was taken out on a repayment basis in 2008. At the start of a repayment 
mortgage, most of the monthly payments  are used to cover interest, and the capital  only 
reduces by small amounts each month to begin  with. The balance reduces more  quickly 
towards the end of the term  it doesnt reduce at a steady rate each year. This is entirely 
normal and is how all mortgages  work.
Secondly, the mortgage began to go into arrears. That means that payments have been 
missed  so not only does  the balance not reduce because  they havent  been made, it 
increases because of extra interest thats applied. And I can see from the transaction history 
that BoS applied various  fees and charges  to the mortgage as a result  of the activity it took 
to try and resolve the arrears situation. They would have increased  the balance  too.
The arrears  have since been capitalised  which means the unpaid  payments are added  to 
the mortgage balance so that Ms O doesnt  have to catch them  up. That increases the 
balance too.
And finally, since 2014 most of the balance  has been on interest only terms. So even though  
Ms O is now up to date with the mortgage  payments, the balance  hasnt been reducing very 
much  because only around 10% of the balance is on repayment terms.
Ms O says that the balance shown on her credit  file keeps changing. I dont think  thats  
surprising  because  its only ever a snapshot on a given day. The balance changes from 
day to day as interest is applied and then as payments are made. For much of its recent  
history, Ms O has been  paying  manually rather than by direct debit  and so the payment 
dates have varied, again changing the interest position slightly day by day.
Having looked  carefully at all this, I cant  see that BoS has made  a mistake in how the 
balance has been  calculated. I cant offer a formal professional auditing service.  Its open to 
Ms O to have the mortgage audited, though  that would need to be at her expense.  And if she 
does, and that identified problems, she could  complain about those. But as things stand I 
dont think the balance is likely to be wrong.
If the mortgage had been  on a fixed interest rate rather than the standard variable rate 
(SVR), Ms O would have had to pay less each month. BoS has said that it doesnt generally 
allow fixed interest rates where a mortgage  is in arrears. Thats because if the property ends 
up being sold or repossessed  as nearly  happened in this case   an early repayment  
charge would be added to the balance if that happened during  a fixed rate. I think  thats a 
reasonable concern, and in the particular circumstances of this case,  I dont think BoS acted 
unfairly by maintaining the mortgage  on the SVR.
Once the arrears  came  off, Ms O would  have been  able to apply  for a fixed  rate. But theres  
no evidence she did so immediately. And more recently Mr O has said that he doesnt want  
any changes to the mortgage  to be made  until hes removed from it. 
Ref: DRN01745673Both Ms O and Mr O were  parties to the mortgage.  Where theres  a disagreement between 
them, as there was here, I cant resolve that dispute. All I can do is look at complaints that 
the bank has acted unfairly.  But where Ms O and Mr O dont agree among themselves what  
they want to ask for, I dont think I can fairly criticise BoS, in the circumstances of this case,  
for not wanting  to make  a change where  it wasnt sure both of them agreed to it while  both 
were still parties to the mortgage. And I dont think it was unfair that it recorded  that they 
were in dispute.
I think its fairly clear that whats  needed above  all in this case  is for Ms O and Mr O to go 
their separate ways   which means Mr O being  removed  from the mortgage  so Ms O can 
take it over on her own.
Generally, where  theres a change to a mortgage   or a replacement  of an old one with a 
new one  which materially affects  affordability, a lender  should  carry out an affordability 
assessment. Thats the case here, since moving from a position where both Ms O and Mr O 
are liable for the mortgage (even if, in practice, only Ms O has been paying  it) to a position 
where only Ms O is liable does materially affect affordability. If the change  happens,  there is 
only one person who can be required to contribute, one income  from which to make  
payments, and one person who can be pursued  if things  go wrong.
However, where  as here  the original mortgage was taken out before April 2014,  a lender 
can disregard the need for an affordability  assessment if the change  is otherwise in the 
borrowers best interests. But thats  only possible with the existing borrowing levels;  any 
further borrowing  would require a full affordability  assessment.
Im pleased to see thats what  BoS did here.  Although it had concerns about Ms Os finances 
and wider situation, it looked at all the circumstances and decided to allow  Ms O to take the 
mortgage over on her own, despite those concerns. But it wasnt prepared  to allow her to 
borrow any more money.  I think that was a fair assessment  for it to have made,  and it does 
appear that it wasnt affordable for Ms O to increase the borrowing.
Unfortunately the transfer wasnt able to go ahead at the time. Ms O had a debt owed to a 
third party which had placed a charge over her property.  She was paying off that debt in 
instalments, but hadnt quite done so  there was just under a year to go. Transferring the 
mortgage would mean removing  the old charge over the property in joint names and 
replacing it with a new one in Ms Os sole name.  Because  that new charge  would  be taken 
out after the other debt, it would rank behind  it. But BoS is only prepared to grant  a mortgage 
where it can take first charge over the property  thats not unreasonable, and is standard 
practice for all mortgage lenders. 
Therefore, the change  could only go through if the third party  creditor  was prepared  to agree 
to postpone its charge  to allow BoSs to take precedence.  It seems Ms Os solicitors werent 
able to get it to agree.  So the re-mortgage didnt go through.
I understand that more recently the debt has been paid off and the re-mortgage has gone 
through. Im pleased  to hear that  but I think that BoS acted  fairly  in expecting either a 
postponement, or a re-application  once the debt had been paid off. I dont  therefore  uphold 
the complaint  that the change should have gone through  sooner. 
Ms O has also said shed  like to convert  the mortgage back to repayment  terms. Thats  
something shell need to discuss with BoS, which will want  to consider as part of its 
Ref: DRN01745674assessment whether thats something thats affordable  for her  because  it will mean  the 
monthly payments  increasing.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0174567