K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in June 2000 in connection with a 
mortgage. The PPI provided cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment.  
background
Mr H says RBS told him he had to take out the PPI to get the mortgage. 
RBS says it isnt responsible for the PPI sale. It says the broker  who arranged the mortgage 
for Mr H is responsible for selling him the policy. Ive referred to the broker business as 
Business A.
In my provisional decision dated  1 March 2019  I explained  why didnt think RBS was 
responsible for the sale of PPI to Mr H. I set out an extract below:
RBS says it didnt sell the PPI. So Ive looked at the available evidence.  From the available  
sale paperwork, I see that Mr H filled out his PPI application on the same day as he made 
his mortgage application. Ive also noticed  that the mortgage application states that it is 
intended to be used in a sale by an intermediary.  That suggests  to me that the mortgage 
sale  and most likely  the PPI sale as well  was handled by Business As representative. 
Also, when signing the declaration on the PPI application form, Mr H was agreeing that the 
terms and conditions of the PPI had been explained  to him. This suggests  that, whether or 
not it happened, Business  A was expected to explain the PPI to Mr H before he made  his 
decision to buy the cover. So it shows that Business A was taking responsibility for ensuring 
the sale of the PPI went ahead as it should.  
So from what Ive seen  so far, Im currently satisfied Mr H didnt buy his PPI from RBS. And 
given that I currently  think RBS wasnt responsible for the PPI sale,  it follows that it also 
wasnt responsible  for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So I am intending not to uphold this 
PPI mis-sale complaint against RBS.
developments
RBS told us that it had received my provisional decision but didnt have anything else to add, 
save for confirming that the offer to refund commission  paid for the sale of the PPI still 
stands. 
Mr H also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. He also queried why correspondence 
hed previously received  about Business A came  from another  business. I think  this is 
because at the time that business  was a trading name of Business A. Other  than that, it 
doesnt affect my finding. 
Mr H also said that even  if Business A arranged the PPI, RBS still had a duty to ensure its 
products were being sold responsibly and should  have taken action as soon as Mr H 
contacted them about the possible mis-sale  of the policy. 
My provisional decision was about  identifying who was responsible for the sale of Mr Hs 
PPI. Given that I identified Business A as being responsible for the sale  and it follows from 
that, the potential  mis-sale as well  its outside the scope of my decision to consider other 
Ref: DRN06448422issues, including how RBS responded to Mr Hs complaint. Im sorry to have to disappoint 
Mr H in that respect.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Save for the issues  Mr H raised in response to my provisional decision,  which  Ive dealt with 
above, Ive not received any further  evidence or information on the question of whether 
Business A is responsible for the PPI sale. I will therefore be staying with my provisional  
finding that RBS isnt responsible for the sale of the policy. 
But, as I believe Mr H is aware,  RBS has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H because: 
 RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr H, that was 
unfair. 
 To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr H any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
RBS should pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. RBS should also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
My final decision is that RBS Plc is not responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint.  
And it follows that I do not uphold the PPI mis-sale  complaint against RBS Plc.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so RBS does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr H.
But RBS does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06448423
Ref: DRN0644842