K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Loughborough Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1998, Miss B applied for a mortgage in a branch of Loughborough. At that time, she was 
sold a PPI policy to protect her monthly mortgage repayment if she couldnt work because  of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.  The first 12 months cover under the policy  was free, 
following which she was charged  £7.25 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Bs complaint  should be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it 
for reasons that Ill now explain.
Miss B says that she thought the PPI was part of her mortgage agreement  and was given 
the impression  she had to take it to get her loan.
Loughborough has provided copies of a number of the documents from the time of this sale.  
And I can see that neither her signed mortgage  application, nor the mortgage  offer and 
acceptance letter which she also signed, mention PPI. A separate application form was 
completed for the PPI policy and Miss B has signed  this to confirm  she had read and 
understood the leaflet shed received about the policy. 
So it looks  as if Loughborough  made  it clear  to Miss B that the PPI policy  was a separate 
product to the mortgage. Its still possible that the Loughborough representative she spoke to 
wrongly misled her into thinking she wouldnt get her mortgage approved unless she took out 
the policy. But I need to bear in mind that this sale took place some twenty years ago and 
memories do tend to fade over such long periods  of time. So I dont think  I could fairly 
conclude that this is what happened, based solely on what  Miss B recalls  now.
I can also see that Miss B received  a letter  from Loughborough  at the end of the policys  
twelve month free period  which made it clear she didnt have to continue with it and pay the 
monthly premium of £7.25.  And I think she would have been likely  to take steps  to cancel her 
cover if shed been under the misapprehension  until then that she had to have  it.
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that she knew  at the time of the sale that the 
PPI was optional  and actively decided to take it. But I can understand why she may not be 
able to recall this now.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think that Loughborough recommended  the PPI policy  to 
Miss B. This means it didnt  have  to ensure that the policy was suitable  for her. But it did still 
need to give her enough information about the policy for her to decide if she wanted to take 
Ref: DRN02831932it. Theres no record of the meeting Miss B had with Loughborough when the sale took 
place. And I dont think I can be sure that the information she was given about the policy  was 
as good as it should have  been. But I dont think that better information would have changed 
her mind  about taking  it. I say this because:
Miss B appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions and limitations. The policy wouldnt  have  paid any benefit to Miss B until shed 
been off work for a full two months. But from what shes  said about her circumstances at 
the time,  she had other means  of making her repayments during this waiting period. So I 
dont think this would have put her off taking out the cover.
Miss B says she was entitled to sick pay and also had some savings she could have 
used if she wasnt able to work.  But this policy would  have paid out in addition to these 
and, potentially, for longer than they would have lasted. And a mortgage is a big financial 
commitment, where ones home  can be at risk if repayments cant be met. So I still think  
she would have  valued the extra security  the policy  gave  her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss B and the monthly  premium  
looks to have been reasonably competitive in the market place. And Miss B would have 
been able to cancel the policy if it no longer  met her needs.
So I dont  think that Miss B has lost out because  of anything that Loughborough might  have 
done wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint  against  
Loughborough Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0283193