K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc disclosed his details to third parties 
without his knowledge and permission. He is also unhappy his debt was sold when he 
already had an arrangement to pay elsewhere.
background
Mr M had a credit card with RBS, which had had an outstanding balance for some time. RBS 
says Mr Ms account was defaulted in March 2013 because  of the way in which Mr M had 
been managing his account. 
In 2018 RBS sold Mr Ms debt to a debt collection agency Ill call C. Prior to this point, Mr M 
had had an arrangement to pay £10 per month to a different  debt collection agency  Ill call 
A. A had been  engaged  by RBS to recover Mr Ms debt on its behalf and had been doing 
so since 2015.  
On 20 June 2018, C wrote to Mr M to tell him that it would start to manage his account and 
collect his £10 monthly payment. RBS also wrote to Mr M to confirm this and it told him A 
was no longer managing his account on behalf of RBS.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained to RBS that it had given information about his 
account to A and C without his knowledge or permission. But RBS didnt uphold his 
complaint because it said it had disclosed his account details  to A and C in line with the 
terms and conditions of his account.  So, it said it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. And he also told our adjudicator  he was unhappy about 
the banks decision  not to approve his loan application in 2012  so that he could consolidate 
his credit card debts, which he said, caused  his arrears to build up during a period of 
financial difficulty. Our adjudicator told Mr M that as hed previously  referred that complaint to 
our service  we couldnt look into it again.  But he said we could  look into Mr Ms complaint 
that his details were  passed on to a third party.
After investigating  Mr Ms complaint, our adjudicator didnt  think RBS had done  anything 
wrong. He said RBS was entitled to transfer  Mr Ms debt and that, when it had disclosed 
information about his account to A and C, it had acted in line with the accounts  terms and 
conditions. But Mr M disagreed and said our adjudicator had overlooked the reason why 
RBS defaulted  his credit card account   which he indicated had been an error. And so he 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  RBS has 
done anything  wrong here. I understand that Mr M will be disappointed  with my conclusions 
so Ill explain why I dont  uphold this complaint.
As our adjudicator explained we cant comment on Mr Ms complaint about  RBS refusal to 
provide him with a loan in 2012. Our service already dealt with this complaint in 2015.  The 
crux of the complaint here is whether RBS acted unfairly in transferring  Mr Ms debt to, and 
discussing his account with, A and C.
Ref: DRN06541062But Mr M has also complained that RBS shouldnt have defaulted his account in the first 
place. So, Ill focus on this issue first because it led to A and C becoming involved in the 
management of his debt. Here,  RBS said Mr Ms credit card was defaulted in March  2013 
after multiple instances of late payments and after hed exceeded his credit limit. It also said 
that after Mr M missed a payment in February  2013 it decided to revoke  his account. Ive 
seen Mr Ms credit card statements and these show that in 2012  and 2013 Mr M wasnt 
managing his account well. I say this because during this period he incurred  a number of late 
payment and over limit fees and he also missed  some payments.  In view of this Im not 
persuaded RBS acted  unreasonably in defaulting  his account. 
Ive then gone on to consider whether RBS notified Mr M correctly about his account being 
defaulted. And Ive seen  samples letters RBS said it sent to Mr M. Because these letters  
were sent a long time ago I think this explains why RBS wasnt  able to send copies of the 
actual letters it sent Mr M. But, having  also seen the audit trail RBS has provided showing 
correspondence sent to Mr M, Im persuaded, that its more  likely that not that RBS sent 
appropriate letters to Mr M that told him what would happen to his account. This included 
telling him the default would be reported to credit reference agencies.
In view of how Mr M was managing his account,  I cant say RBS acted unfairly  when it 
issued a default here. It was a decision RBS was entitled to take because  Mr M wasnt  
maintaining his account in line with the terms and conditions  of his account.  And I agree with 
our adjudicator that RBS followed a fair process  by sending Mr M a default notice and asking 
third parties to help it recover the debt owed by him.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Ms complaint, which  is about  RBS passing his debt on 
to others  and discussing his account  with them.
Mr M said his debt was sold without his knowledge but I can see that both RBS and C wrote 
to him to explain this had happened. And because Mr M sent copies of those letters to our 
service, Im satisfied he received them. So, Im not persuaded that he didnt know  his debt 
had been sold to C. 
Mr M feels his debt was sold on without his permission. But Im satisfied RBS sold Mr Ms 
debt in line with the terms and conditions  of his account. Ill explain why.
Lenders will generally have the right to sell a debt to a third party in certain circumstances. 
Here this is set out in the terms and conditions  for Mr Ms credit card account,  which  clearly  
explain that RBS may allow  any person  to take over any of [its] rights and duties  under  this 
agreement. These also outline when a debt can be transferred.  Mr Ms said he wouldnt have 
read these  when he took out his credit  card. But hed have had to accept the terms and 
conditions to proceed with his application  before opening the account. Theyre  binding on 
Mr M so Id expect him to have read them.
The account  terms and conditions also set out the circumstances  in which  an account can 
be discussed with others.  Theres  specific reference to RBS being able to disclose customer  
account information to third parties providing services  to it such as debt collection agencies 
and those who help it to recover debt. And the terms also state RBS may give to anyone 
Ref: DRN06541063any information about a customer  in connection  with any proposed  transfer of, or financial  
arrangement by reference to, this agreement. 
 
So while RBS had an obligation to keep information about Mr Ms account private, Im 
satisfied it was permitted  to disclose information  about his account  to third parties when 
debts were being transferred for assignment  as it did here. It acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms credit card. So, it didnt do anything wrong when it told A 
about the debt Mr M owed  in 2015. It needed  to discuss Mr Ms account with A so it could 
set up and manage the repayment of his debt. And it didnt do anything wrong when, in 
2018, it disclosed information about Mr Ms account  with C. It couldnt have transferred      
Mr Ms debt to C without doing so. I havent  seen any evidence that RBS discussed  Mr Ms 
account with any third party other than A and C. And Mr M hasnt provided any evidence  to 
contradict this.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration that after dealing with A his debt was then sold to C. He 
had an arrangement with A and he was paying  what hed agreed to pay with this company. It 
must have  been  upsetting to Mr M for that agreement to be taken over by another company 
he hadnt had dealings with before. But, his debt was transferred to C because  A went  out of 
business. So, it wasnt unreasonable for RBS to sell Mr Ms debt to C in circumstances 
where A could no longer continue to collect it. And I can see that Mr M hasnt  been  caused a 
loss by RBS decision  to sell his debt to C. I say this because he isnt being  charged interest 
on the debt he owes. And C has told Mr M its happy  to continue with the payment  
arrangement he entered into with A. It follows that I dont think it did anything wrong here.
So while I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feelings about these matters , Im satisfied that 
RBS acted fairly and reasonably here. And I dont  think  it did anything  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0654106