K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage endowment policy Mr and Mrs B took out in 1989 to 
support a Nationwide Building Society (formally Nationwide  Anglia) Partnership mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 8 January 2020, a copy  of which is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt minded to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I invited  both parties to let me have any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs Bs representative  didnt respond,  
despite a reminder  from our investigator. Ive reviewed everything  carefully  and considered 
the case afresh, but my opinion hasnt changed.  Ive reached the same findings  and for the 
same reasons as I set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision  before 1 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05979682COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaints about a mortgage endowment policy Mr and Mrs B took out in 1989 to 
support a Nationwide Building Society (formally Nationwide  Anglia) Partnership mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out an interest-only mortgage with Nationwide in 1989. They also took out 
a mortgage endowment policy with a life assurance provider. Mr and Mrs B surrendered the 
endowment policy in 2008 and switched to a repayment mortgage.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs B complained that the policy had been  mis-sold. Our investigator upheld  
the complaint.  Nationwide disagreed  and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs B wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Before I can consider whether or not the policy was mis-sold I need  to be satisfied that 
Nationwide actually sold it to them.  If I dont think Nationwide  sold it to them then, it follows, 
that Nationwide cant be said to have mis-sold it.
The policy provider has been unable  to tell us who the policy  was sold by as its been so 
long since it was surrendered. Mr and Mrs B have said Nationwide  sold them this policy. Ive 
considered this point  carefully but Im not persuaded by it.
In the questionnaire  Mr and Mrs B completed for Nationwide  as part of this complaint 
process they were  asked  When and where  did you receive the advice about buying  the 
policy? And they were given the options  Postal invitation, Branch visit,  Postal  invitation 
and branch visit, At your own request, Estate Agent and Other. It goes on to say If 
Estate Agent / Other, please give name. Mr and Mrs B ticked Other but unfortunately did 
not fill in the section asking for more  information.  Had this been  sold by Nationwide I would 
have expected them to have ticked Branch  visit if it was in branch, or Other  but the name 
Nationwide and the method of sale to have been  provided if it was sold any other way.
Ive also considered all the contemporaneous evidence from the time the policy was taken 
out, none of which indicates Nationwide sold the policy:
The mortgage application form has a section where  the Nationwide adviser  (if there was 
one) would fill in the product recommended, company  and reason for recommendation. 
This was left blank.
The Nationwide internal keying form also had a section where the recommendation gets 
recorded, and that was left blank.
Ref: DRN05979683A form that records the details of the endowment policy has the questions ADVICE  
GIVEN and COMMISSION PAYABLE and both are ticked  N. Had Nationwide  sold 
the policy  then it would  have marked this Y to ensure  it claimed the sales  commission  
that would have been due.
The original  mortgage offer dated 29 September 1988 said THE  SOCIETY  WAS NOT 
REQUIRED TO GIVE ADVICE IN ACCORDANCE WITH  REGULATIONS MADE 
PURSUANT TO THE FINANCIAL SERVICES  ACT 1986 IN RESPECT OF THE 
POLICY/POLICIES BEING PROVIDED FOR ASSIGNMENT.
Whilst its possible Nationwide sold the policy  to Mr and Mrs B thats not supported by the 
documentary evidence.  Just because they were  first time buyers  doesnt  mean  the policy 
had to have been sold by Nationwide. At the time the policy  was applied  for there were other 
ways Mr and Mrs B could have taken it out; it could have been through an independent 
financial adviser, through a work  scheme  (like the Partnership mortgage  Mr and Mrs B took) 
or through  the estate  agent. In addition the solicitors Mr and Mrs B used were authorised  by 
the Law Society to provide financial advice, so they could have sold the policy.  Im not 
saying any of these  other  parties did sell the policy to Mr and Mrs B Im just setting out how 
many other options there were other than Nationwide.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mr and Mrs B are the ones bringing the 
complaint against  Nationwide,  to uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs Bs version  needs  to be 
more likely than Nationwides version;  not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant  
say Mr and Mrs Bs version (that Nationwide sold this policy to them)  is anything more than 
just as likely,  which isnt enough for me to uphold  their complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am minded not to uphold  this complaint.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0597968