K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that PDL Finance  Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  was irresponsible to lend 
to her.
background
Mrs S borrowed £250 from Mr Lender in May 2011. She says if Mr Lender  had done better 
checks it wouldve found she was in financial difficulty and using  one loan to repay  another.
Mr Lender says it checked Mrs Ss employment  and income at the time she applied for the 
loan. It also says it carried out a credit  check,  her credit score was acceptable and there was 
nothing else to indicate financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied Mr 
Lender had done enough checks  before  approving  Mrs Ss loan and considered it should 
have also asked her about her regular outgoings. But when our adjudicator  looked  at Mrs Ss 
bank statements to assess her expenditure, she found it likely that Mr Lender  would have  
considered Mrs Ss disposable income to be high enough to afford the loan repayment.
 
Mrs S responded to say that her living expenses were far higher than the figure  quoted by 
the adjudicator  and proper checks by Mr Lender would have shown her debt situation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S 
and to Mr Lender on 6 February  2019. I summarise my findings:
I didnt consider Mr Lender did enough checks before approving  Mrs Ss loan;
But I was satisfied  that, even with better checks, Mr Lender was still likely  to have 
found the loan affordable;
Mrs S rolled the loan over ten times  before repaying it;
I took into account the Office of Fair Trades guidelines from 2010  which  said loans  
should not be rolled over in a way that was unsustainable;
I found that by the fourth  rollover Mrs S had repaid more than the original scheduled 
repayment so considered  Mr Lender should  have suspected financial difficulties and 
carried out further checks before approving additional rollovers;
Mr Lender  was likely to have found Mrs S was unable to repay its loan in full due to 
other loan repayments that were due at the same time;
Mrs S was also spending a lot of money  on gambling;
I didnt think it was responsible for Mr Lender  to allow  the fifth, or subsequent, 
rollovers.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs S or Mr Lender, my provisional decision was 
that Mr Lender should refund interest  and charges after the fourth rollover (plus 8% statutory 
interest) and remove any negative information about  the loan from Mrs Ss credit file.
Mr Lender accepted my provisional decision and Mrs S had nothing  further  to add.
Ref: DRN06177822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional  information,  and Mr Lender accepted my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to depart  from it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I partly  uphold Mrs Ss complaint. PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr 
Lender) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mrs S paid after the fourth  rollover;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about the loan from Mrs Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0617782