K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M and their two sons Mr M1 and Mr M2, all of whom are party  to the mortgage,  
complain that they are unhappy with the interest  rates applied to their mortgage by UCB 
Home Loans Corporation Ltd. They say the interest rates should be lower  to reflect the Bank 
of England Base Rate. 
background
Mr and Mrs M and their children hold three Buy to Let (BTL) mortgage  accounts. Ill call them  
mortgage account 1, 2 and 3.
Mortgage account 1 was taken out on an interest  only basis in August 2007. This was taken 
out on a two year fixed rate at 6.19%.  After  this, the account  would  switch  to the Investment 
Flexible Variable Rate (IFVR) which at the time was 7.79%. In September  2009 when the 
fixed rate expired, the account switched to the IFVR which,  by then, was 4.99%.
Mortgage account 2 was taken out on an interest  only basis in November 2007. This was 
taken out on a three year fixed rate at 6.19%. After this, the account  would switch to the 
IFVR which at the time was 8.04%. In December 2010, the account  switched to the IFVR 
which was 5.29%.
Mortgage account 3 was taken out on an interest  only basis in June 2007. This was taken 
out on a two year fixed rate at 6.09%.  After  this, the account  would  switch  to the IFVR which  
at the time was 7.54%.  In July 2009,  the account  switched  to the IFVR which  was 4.99%.
Mr and Mrs M and their children werent  happy that the LFVR  didnt track the Bank  of 
England Base Rate so they complained to UCB. They said they felt trapped and were unable 
to re-mortgage  elsewhere due to the high loan to value. UCB said there  was no error with 
how the rates had been applied to the mortgage accounts and they said the changes were  
made in line with their terms  and conditions.
Mr and Mrs M and their children disagreed with this so they brought the complaint to our 
service where it was looked  at by one of our investigators. She thought that the rates had 
been applied  fairly  so she didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld.
Mr and Mrs M and their children were not happy  with this. They said that given the 
unprecedented economic conditions, UCB did nothing to assist them but instead  took 
advantage of the situation of them being  trapped and UCB profiting from this. They  asked for 
the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman so it has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs M and their children, I agree  with what the investigator has said, for broadly the 
same reasons so I wont be upholding  their complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs M, their children and UCB  have said.  What I 
have gone on to consider overall, is how UCB applied their rate changes generally, and if 
these changes are applied fairly in line with their terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN00501322I havent seen  anything in the terms and conditions which  suggests  that UCB  are 
contractually obliged  to change their IFVR when the Bank of England Base Rate  changes. 
Lenders can take these  changes  into account  when setting their rates   and they often do. 
But they dont  have to apply changes  just because the Bank of England Base Rate  changes  
at any given time.
The terms and conditions  also say that UCB can change  their IFVR at any time as long as 
they give notice   which I believe they have.
Since June  2009  there have been  two changes to the IFVR which  affected mortgage  
accounts 1 and 3. The IFVR first increased  by 0.3% in February 2010 taking the rate to 
5.29%. Ive looked  at the terms and conditions and can see that this rate change was 
applied in line with the terms and conditions  (clause  5.2 iv  b). UCB are entitled  to do this, 
among other reasons,  to reflect costs  associated with specific changes  in relevant market  
conditions including  technological changes  and changes  in services or facilities  provided.
In addition to this, UCB made a commercial  decision to increase the IFVR due to the 
increased cost of funding  at the time due to changes in market conditions and other related 
commercial interests. Ive looked  at the annual  mortgage statement  dated January 2010 
which notified Mr and Mrs M and their children of this change.
The change of interest rate in September 2018  increased the interest  rate to 5.54%. This 
change was undertaken under clause  5.2 (iv) (a) and was taken due to changes  in prevailing  
markets, as the Bank of England increased  its rate by 0.25%    which  again  they were  
entitled to do. Mr and Mrs M and their children were  notified of this change in August  2018. 
Both of these rate changes are in line with the terms and conditions  and Im satisfied that 
they were applied fairly to all of the mortgage  accounts.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M and their children feel they are unable to re-mortgage to 
another lender due to the high loan to value and they feel trapped with UCB. But this change 
in circumstances  isnt something that UCB  would  have   or ought to have 
known when they took the mortgages  out. So it wouldnt  be fair to hold them  liable if this is 
whats limiting Mr and Mrs M and their childrens ability  to move their mortgages  elsewhere. 
And I can see there were  no contractual barriers, such as an early  repayment charge, 
stopping them from seeking another lender.  So, it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to hold UCB  
accountable for that. 
Mr and Mrs M and their children have also said that due to the economic conditions they feel 
that UCB  didnt do anything to help them. I can see that once any fixed rates expired on the 
mortgage accounts, Mr and Mrs M and their children would  have been  able to change to 
other interest rates or move their mortgage elsewhere if they were able to  which they have 
told us they couldnt. While its been  a difficult situation and I empathise  with how frustrating 
it might  have been, for the reasons given above,  I cant say that UCB werent prepared  to 
help. I can see that the new fixed rate mortgages were  taken  out in September  2018 for all 
mortgage accounts. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M and their children are unhappy  with the interest  rates applied 
to their mortgage account over the years. But Im satisfied that UCB have treated them  fairly  
in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mr M and their children,  I think  the changes applied by 
UCB have  been  done so reasonably and fairly.
Ref: DRN00501323my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M and 
Mr and Mr M to accept  or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0050132