K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the level of serviced  received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
following a claim he made  under his buildings insurance policy. 
background
In July 2018, Mr L had a water leak at his property  which caused  damage to his kitchen. UKI 
accepted the claim and appointed contractors to carry out the repair work. But Mr L 
complained that the contractors caused damage  to his kitchen units. He said the doors 
hadnt been stored or covered properly which resulted in them being damage.  UKI accepted  
its contractors caused  the damage. 
Mr L said repairs were attempted to rectify  the damage but this didnt put things right and so 
he requested that UKI replaced the damaged doors.  UKI said it could offer a cash settlement 
for the damaged doors and a separate payment for the mis-matching of the undamaged 
doors. However, Mr L disputed it explained  this to him. 
UKI also offered  to cover  the cleaning costs and pay Mr L £200  to recognise the level of 
trouble and upset  this had caused  him.  
Mr L raised further concerns about the amount of time taken for the repairs  to be completed.  
He said he was informed by UKIs contractors the work would  only take up to four days  to 
complete. And the work at Mr Ls home  wasnt completed until October 2018. So he said UKI 
should increase its offer of compensation. But UKI maintained its position, so Mr L brought 
his complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He accepted that UKI 
caused damage inside Mr Ls home  but considered it had taken reasonable steps to put 
things right.
Mr L remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide  his case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing  to Mr L so Ill explain why. 
UKI accepted its contractors caused damage to the kitchen doors and agreed to cover  the 
costs to rectify it. And Mr L accepted the cash settlement amount so Ive not considered this 
any further. 
What is in dispute is whether UKI should  increase its offer for compensation for time taken 
between its contractors commencing  work, to Mr Ls own contractors completing  the work.
Having weighed everything up, Im not in agreement UKI should do anything more here. Ive 
considered the points  Mr L expressed  in response to our investigators view and Im in no 
doubt that UKI caused Mr L to experience a level of trouble and upset.  And I appreciate his 
frustration and the inconvenience given  his expectation was for the repairs to be completed 
within four days,  but werent  completed  until October  2018. 
Ref: DRN04803452But Im unable to agree with Mr L that UKI should compensate  him for the delays caused  to 
completing work after the cash settlement  was agreed and received. This is because once 
the cash settlement  has been agreed  to and received; an insurer  has indemnified the 
policyholder and therefore is no longer involved with the claim. 
It wasnt unreasonable for UKI to carry out investigations into whether the damage was 
caused by its own contractors or not. And as the damage was found  to be caused  by UKIs 
contractors it wasnt  unreasonable for Mr L to refuse to agree  to let them put things  right. I 
also dont think it was unreasonable for Mr L to request  a cash  settlement given he was also 
unable to source suitable replacements. But Im not in agreement UKI caused any 
unreasonable delays when settling  the damage dispute. 
There was some delay experienced by Mr L during his claim due to the damage UKI has 
accepted its contractors caused. But Im satisfied it took reasonable steps  to put things  right 
and compensated  Mr L fairly by offering him £200 to recognise  the level of trouble and upset 
caused.  
Mr L used his own contractors to carry out the repairs and it wouldnt be fair to hold UKI 
responsible for the amount of time it took for Mr Ls contractors to complete repairs.  And Im 
satisfied were no unreasonable delays in UKI providing Mr L with the cash settlement 
amount.
Im satisfied UKI took reasonable steps  to rectify  the problem its contractors caused,  so I 
wont be asking UKI to do anything more here. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0480345