K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has back  dated the 
pay out from her personal accident insurance  claim to the maximum amount available when 
she had her accident in 2013. She says the limit has since increased  considerably  and it is 
unfair of Great  Lakes not to pay her the value of the new higher limit. 
 
background
Mrs K had a serious accident in 2013  which left her unable to return  to work. She has a 
personal accident insurance  policy  with Great Lakes and so she made a claim when the 
accident happened. However Mrs Ks medical team explained that due to the nature of her 
injuries it would take some time,  years  in fact, for them to confirm whether or not she would 
be able to return to work.
It took until 2016/2017 for Mrs Ks medical  team to confirm she had been left permanently 
disabled and wouldnt be able to return to work. At that point Mrs K contacted  Great Lakes to 
explain the final prognosis and progress her claim.  
Great Lakes accepted Mrs Ks claim and agreed to pay it. However it said that under the 
terms of the policy  it would only pay Mrs K the upper limit as it was set out in 2013 when she 
had her accident. 
Mrs K has argued that this is very unfair. The value of a claim for total permanent disability in 
2013 was £75,000, however by the time Mrs K was able to progress her claim in 2017 this 
amount had increased to £217,000. As she had no option but to wait for her medical team  to 
confirm her prognosis, and this took a number  of years, Mrs K feels Great Lakes should pay 
her the upper limit as set out in 2017 not 2013.
Great Lakes has said that the terms of the policy clearly state that a successful claim will be 
paid out at the rates applicable at the time of the accident and not the time of the claim.  It 
said it believes it has been  fair to Mrs K. It added on an additional 25% for inflation between 
2013 and 2018 (when the claim was finalised) and paid Mrs K £93,750  in full and final 
settlement of her claim. 
Mrs K disagreed with Great Lakes  and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
has already looked into Mrs Ks complaint  and found  that Great Lakes were entitled to cap 
the amount payable  under the terms and conditions of the policy.  Mrs K disagreed  with his 
findings and so the complaint has been passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for me to establish whether or not Great Lakes has treated Mrs K fairly I need to 
consider the term it has relied on and whether or not it has been applied  to Mrs Ks claim 
correctly.
Looking at the policys terms and conditions I can see it states that:
The benefit  we pay will be the amount  that applied at the date the insured was injured
Ref: DRN07764982So I am satisfied that the terms and conditions do state that the amount payable  on a claim 
will be the amount available at the time of the accident. Which  in Mrs Ks case means the 
amount that was available  in 2013. Therefore  the next thing I need to consider is whether or 
not this term has been  applied  fairly.
I appreciate why Mrs K feels  that Great Lakes have been unfair  in its application  of this term. 
The amount  payable for a claim like hers has increased enormously in the five years  
between her accident and the claim being completed. And during this time Mrs K did 
everything she could  to try to progress her claim. She has told us about all the information 
requests that Great Lakes  made  and the number of times she had to go back to her medical 
team to get additional reports and updates for the underwriter.  I can see that she did 
everything within her power to support Great  Lakes  investigation into her claim and to try to 
provide answers  to the numerous questions it asked of her. 
However, despite Mrs Ks efforts to provide  Great Lakes with all the information  it asked for, 
due to the nature of her injuries, it wasnt able to progress her claim until it had been 
confirmed by her medical team what the final prognosis was. And that prognosis didnt come 
until 2017. However having carefully  reviewed all the information  provided by both Mrs K and 
Great Lakes I cant see that the underwriter did anything to delay the claim or that it has 
applied the above term in an unfair or unreasonable way. I understand why Mrs K feels 
Great Lakes have been unfair  but its entitled  to set its own upper limits  on potential claims 
and to review these amounts, increasing and decreasing them, as it wants. 
Mrs K has also told us that that throughout the time she was waiting for her prognosis  to be 
confirmed she continued to pay premiums for her policy.  Great Lakes has explained that all 
of these premiums have been  refunded  to Mrs K already. Indeed  it accidently refunded the 
full amount of the premiums twice but has confirmed that it wont  be requesting a refund of 
this overpayment. 
I know this decision will come as a terrible disappointment  to Mrs K and I appreciate that this 
involves life changing amounts of money. But I can only ask the business to do something 
more if I have established that it behaved  unreasonably in the first instance. And I cant say 
that Great Lakes  behaved unreasonably in relation to how it has dealt with Mrs Ks claim. 
And so I cant ask it to increase the amount it paid to Mrs K. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint against Great Lakes  
Insurance SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0776498