K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit  card in 1996.
background
Mr S bought his PPI alongside a credit  card at a branch in 1996. The PPI would have paid 
up to 10% of the outstanding balance,  if he was off work for up to 12 months through 
sickness, accident or if he lost his job.
  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint about the mis-sale of the PPI. But she said that 
the amount of compensation NatWest had offered for the high level of commission it 
received was a fair way to resolve  this complaint. Mr S disagreed  with this view and asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why 
below.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr S was given a fair choice about buying  the 
PPI. Mr S says that at the time he felt he had no choice and NatWest took advantage of him. 
NatWest has been  able to provide a copy of the credit card application form. On it theres a 
section about  the PPI headed credit card repayment protector. I can see Mr S has signed 
this section to say he wanted the cover. He also had the option to say no. And he has 
signed the application at the end of the form. I can also see the PPI appeared on his credit  
card statements so if he was unsure about it, or didnt know  he had it; he could have 
questioned the PPI with NatWest at any time. Overall, I think  he would have likely known he 
was choosing PPI, what it covered him for and that he could say no if he didnt want  it - even 
if its completely understandable if he cant remember all the details now after such  a long 
time.
 
Mr S says this was an advised  sale but NatWest says no advice was given. Ive seen 
nothing to make me think a tailored  recommendation was given to Mr S. But it doesnt matter  
whether it was advised or not as I still think it was suitable for him. 
I say that because he was eligible for the policy and that as he was working  and didnt have 
any existing medical  problems he likely could have made a successful  claim if he needed to.
Mr S has told us he wouldnt have  received any sick pay and he had around three months 
but no more than six months worth of savings he could have used. But this policy  would 
have paid out for up to 12 months. So it would  have paid out for potentially longer and in 
addition to any other resources he did have. It also meant he didnt have to rely on his 
savings or he could have used them for other important  expenses if things went wrong. So I 
still think the PPI could have been  useful.
Ref: DRN00256332Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable or he had a particular need to 
keep his costs  down.
Its possible that NatWest  didnt give Mr S all the information  it should  have. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to think whether Mr S would have still taken  out 
the PPI if hed been given  more or better  information  about the policy. I cant  say he would  
have changed  his mind.  For much  the same reasons as I have said I think  it was likely  
suitable for him I still think he would have taken it out.
Overall, Ive found that Mr S chose to take out the policy- so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover and I think the PPI could have been useful if he couldnt work or lost his job. I cant  
say he would have  acted differently even with better or clearer  information.  So I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But NatWest  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because : 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  NatWest  didnt  tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
NatWest has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back  to Mr S any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
NatWest should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back  to Mr S the difference  
between what Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest  should also pay Mr S 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN00256333my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0025633