K820x#14complaint
A company, which I'll refer to as D, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc forced it 
to take out a loan in 2013 to repay  its residual  debts.  
Mr M, who is a director  of D, has made the complaint on D's behalf.
background
D is a property company,  which was set up in 2005.  NatWest provided business  loans and 
an overdraft to support  the acquisition of a property portfolio. All facilities were  on a one-year 
interest-only basis and were renewed  annually for the next three years.
In 2009, the bank said it wouldnt offer any further  interest-only arrangements  for the loans. It 
renewed Ds borrowing  but added arrangement fees and increased the interest  rate. In 2010, 
D was transferred to the control  of the banks  Specialised Risk Management (SRM). D 
started to sell its property portfolio - at a loss  in order  to repay  the bank. 
In 2011, Mr M remortgaged his family home  and used the funds to repay  most  of Ds debts, 
leaving a shortfall  of around  £33,000.  D was transferred back  to mainstream banking. 
In 2013, there was around £20,000  of debt left. This was restructured into a repayment loan 
with an interest rate of base rate+4.75% and an arrangement fee of £960.  Mr M says that D 
was forced  into this loan,  despite putting  alternative  repayment proposals to the bank.
D complained to NatWest  in January  2017 that it had been unfairly treated since  2009. The 
bank didnt uphold  the complaint, although it did refund  £2,657 of loan arrangement fees. 
D asked our service to look into things in August  2018. NatWest objected to this. It said that 
D hadnt referred their complaint to us in time. I considered this objection and issued a 
jurisdiction decision.  I found that much of the complaint was out of time. However, I 
concluded that this service  was able to consider the part of the complaint about  events that 
happened after 10 January 2011  (the only event  mentioned after that point  being  the 2013  
loan). Both sides accepted my findings  on this point. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ds complaint about the 2013 loan. He didnt 
recommend upholding it, so D asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. Mr M said 
that D had no option but to take out the loan because of the companys poor financial 
position caused by the banks withdrawing of support. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  the bank acted fairly in 2013, I can take into account the context of the 
restructuring, in other words, how the position arose, but I cant make any findings on 
NatWests actions before January 2011,  as I have no power to look into them.  
Ref: DRN03647452By 2013, D had repaid most of its borrowing at NatWests request. The banks notes indicate 
that the 2013 loan was a refinancing of a loan for £33,000 18 months earlier,  which was itself 
a refinance of the residual debt after Mr Ms remortgage. This £33,000 loan had a bullet 
repayment and had expired. Its anticipated repayment source was the proceeds of property  
sales (properties not charged to NatWest), but this clearly  hadnt happened.   
I dont think Mr M disputes that D still owed  the bank around  £20,000  at this point. I think the 
bank had communicated very clearly  that it would have liked this sum to be repaid earlier. 
Indeed, it had been saying since 2009  that it no longer had an appetite for this type of 
lending. Both sides  were therefore left in a position  theyd rather not have been in. 
Mr M says that he put alternative proposals to the bank, but I havent seen any evidence of 
this. The banks records indicate that Mr M requested  the debt be put onto a reducing  basis.  
Theres no evidence of exactly  what was discussed  at the time. But in any case, even if it 
was the banks requirement, I dont think it was unreasonable to want to put the loan onto a 
repayment basis at this stage. A repayment loan for five years  meant  that both sides  knew  
where they stood,  there was an exit strategy and there wouldnt be any further  short term 
restructurings. I dont think this was unfair  to D. 
Next Ive looked at whether NatWest acted  fairly  in increasing the interest rate on the loan in 
2013. The bank  has shown me that base+4.75% was in line or below what its guidelines 
permitted it to charge  at the time. This was based  on a series  of factors, such as the term of 
the borrowing, the security and the banks assessment  of the overall  risk. I note also that, 
while the preceding £33,000  loan was at base+3%, D had paid base+4.5% before this. 
Overall, in these particular circumstances, I dont think  the new rate was out of line with 
market norms at the time and I dont think it was unfair. 
The bank charged a fee of £960  for the five year loan. This equated to around 1% a year. 
Arrangement fees are a normal  part of banking  practice and I dont think this was 
unreasonable in the context of a five year commitment.  
D has said that, in forcing us into this situation, the bank showed neither consideration nor 
care to us as customers. I accept that D would  rather not have been  in this position.  But 
given the situation that existed by 2013, I dont think the bank acted unfairly here.  It agreed  
to spread repayment over five years, when it would have  preferred to be repaid in full. And 
the banks records  show that it considered debt servicing ratios,  indicating  that it had thought 
about whether  D could  afford the repayments.
In summary,  I know Mr M will be disappointed  by this outcome, but my conclusion  is that 
NatWest didnt do anything wrong in relation to the five year loan in 2013.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0364745