K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr D complain that Santander  UK Plc didnt properly pursue a chargeback request 
on their behalf.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 2 July 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Santander werent responsible  for the 
delay in Mrs and Mr D making their chargeback request and the fact that their claim fell 
outside the required 120 day time limit. And I stated why I thought it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Santander to repay  the money  Mrs and Mr D lost. My provisional decision outlined my 
reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold this part of Mrs and Mr Ds complaint. 
In my provisional decision I also explained why I intended to uphold  Mrs and Mr Ds 
complaint about  their telephone call with Santander on 2 February 2018 and what  followed.  I 
stated that this is where Santander could have  handled matters better. I explained that I 
thought it should have  been obvious  to Santander  during this call that the claim  was outside 
the 120 day time limit and by failing to spot this and tell Mrs and Mr D false  hope was raised 
that they still had a chance to get their money back. In view of that error  I explained  that I 
intended to ask Santander  to pay a total of £100 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Mrs and Mr D.
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Santander responded to say it had nothing further  to add. But Mrs and Mr D didnt respond  
to my provisional decision.  Ive seen evidence that it was sent to them  and that emails 
chasing their response were sent by our service. A extension  of time  namely a week   was 
also given to them to enable them ample  opportunity to respond  with any comments they 
wished me to consider before I drafted my final decision. That deadline has now passed. 
And, notwithstanding the absence of Mrs and Mr Ds response, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for me to issue my final decision in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order  to resolve this complaint 
Santander Bank Plc should pay £100  to Mrs and Mr D for its poor service and the distress 
and inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN09551572Julie Robertson
ombudsman
copy provisional decision 2 July 2019
complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain that Santander UK Plc didnt properly pursue a chargeback  request on their 
behalf.
background
Ref: DRN09551573Mrs and Mr D say that in February 2017 they booked flights  costing around £1,500. They  paid using 
their Santander debit  card.  On 2 October 2017, shortly before they were  due to fly, the airline went out 
of business. Mrs and Mr D contacted Santander that day to ask the bank to make a chargeback  
request so they could get their money back.
They say they were told theyd receive paperwork  to complete and return. It seems that the first set of 
forms the bank sent went missing but they were replaced. My understanding is that Mrs and Mr D say 
they sent the paperwork back as requested  and then moved house soon after.  They  say because was 
this busy  time in their lives and they didnt  want to hassle Santander they didnt contact the bank to 
find out what  was happening with their chargeback  request  until 2 February  2018.
They say the bank then told them that no request  had been  made on their behalf  because their 
paperwork had not been received. The bank sent the forms  out again  after that call and Mrs and Mr D 
returned them  to Santander  at the end of May 2018. Only then were  they told that their chargeback 
request couldnt be made because they were  outside the 120 day time limit imposed by the rules of 
the scheme.
Mrs and Mrs D complained  to Santander. They felt theyd made contact with the bank well within the 
time limit and it wasnt their fault that the bank had lost their paperwork. Santander rejected  their 
complaint. It felt it was bound  by the rules  of the chargeback scheme  and it had acted  as soon as it 
had received the paperwork it needed.
Mrs and Mrs D brought their complaint to our service. They still thought  theyd requested the 
chargeback in time and also thought  that if Santander had given them  better  information  about  time 
limits in the first place then they might  have  chased  things  sooner. The investigator felt that in order to 
pursue the complaint the bank needed  the completed forms  and supporting paperwork from Mrs and 
Mr D. Since they didnt get that until after the time limit had passed she didnt think  Santander had 
acted unreasonably  in the circumstances. Mrs and Mr D werent happy with this. So they asked for 
their complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont 
intend any discourtesy by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on 
what I think are the key issues. I can assure Mrs and Mr D and Santander that Ive read everything 
thats been  sent.  So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered  it. Its just 
that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
There are two parts to this and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with them separately. 
the chargeback  process
The chargeback process allows consumers to ask their card issuer to reverse payments made  on 
their card in certain  circumstances.  It doesnt guarantee  that consumers will get their money back  - 
its not a legal  right - and individual  card issuers have their own rules to say how the scheme  works.
The card issuer here is Visa. Mrs and Mr D realised they werent going to be able to take the flights 
theyd booked  on 2 October 2017. The rules mean that the chargeback request needed  to be made 
within 120 days of that date.  So 30 January 2018 was the last date on which a chargeback request 
could be made.
Its accepted that the process  wasnt started before  that date because Santander  didnt have the 
paperwork it needed. There is no flexibility within  the rules of the scheme, so the chargeback request 
cannot be made now. Mrs and Mr D think that is Santanders fault. I have thought carefully about 
everything theyve said but I dont agree. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN09551574The rules of the scheme need evidence  in support of any chargeback request to be submitted.  It was 
reasonable for Santander  to ask Mrs and Mr D to complete the paperwork which was sent out so it 
could move to the next stage of the process. I dont think the phone call Mrs and Mr D made  on 2 
October 2017 to say they wanted to get their money back is enough to support a chargeback  request 
for the purposes of the rules of the scheme.
Mrs and Mr D are sure that they sent everything required to Santander. But Santander has no record 
of receiving it. While its very unfortunate when things get lost in the post,  I dont think it would  be fair 
for me to hold Santander responsible for that. Its not something over which it has any control. 
I also dont think its reasonable to expect the bank to chase Mrs and Mr D after their initial call. Its a 
more reasonable expectation that the customer will monitor the progress of any request they have 
made.  I can understand why, at what was a busy time in their lives, Mrs and Mr D didnt think  to call 
the bank to find out what was happening with their chargeback request and I mean no criticism of 
them. I just want to explain why I dont think its fair to hold Santander responsible in this case.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs and Mr D - its a lot of money to lose- but the rules  of the 
scheme are strict.  By the time they called to find out what was happening  on 2 February 2018 it was 
already too late for the chargeback request to be made. For the reasons  I have explained  I cant fairly  
hold Santander responsible for the delay and so it wouldnt be fair to ask it to repay  the money  Mrs 
and Mr D have lost.
the information Mrs and Mr D were  given about the chargeback process
Whilst the rules  of the scheme may be unfamiliar to consumers it is reasonable to expect financial 
businesses to have a better  understanding of them.  
Mrs and Mr D say they werent told about the 120 day time limit, nor what they could expect  as the 
chargeback progressed when they first called  the bank. They say if they had been better  informed 
then they might have chased things sooner. I dont have the full details of the first call because  the 
bank no longer has the recording.  But in any event, I dont think  its reasonable  to expect  a business 
to give a detailed explanation  of the scheme and the time limits in the first call unless there is a 
particular reason  to do so. I dont think that was the case here.  
But I think where things could have been handled  better is during the call of 2 February 2018,  and 
what followed.  It should  have been obvious at that stage that the claim was outside the 120 day time 
limit. By failing to spot this and tell Mrs and Mr D, false hope was raised that they still had a chance to 
get their money back.  It is clear that distress  and inconvenience was caused by this and I intend to 
ask Santander to pay a total of £100 compensation  to reflect this.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that in order to resolve  this complaint Santander Bank Plc should  pay £100 
to Mrs and Mr D for its poor service and the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add before issuing  my final decision  on 
the matter.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0955157