K820x#14complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complained that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  wrongly settled 
another drivers claim under their motor insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs S had an accident in a car park. She felt that it was the other drivers fault.  But Admiral 
treated her as having been  responsible for the accident and settled the other  drivers claim 
under her policy. She was unhappy that theyd failed to get CCTV footage which she 
believed would have  shown that she wasnt at fault, and that theyd  failed to settle  the claim 
on a without prejudice  basis. Admiral accepted that they hadnt settled the claim on a 
without prejudice  basis and that theyd taken  too long and so they offered compensation for 
their inconvenience.  But Admiral stood by their decision on liability. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that their complaint should  be upheld. He thought  that 
Admiral had done what they could to get the CCTV footage, theyd assessed the evidence in 
a fair and reasonable manner, and their compensation  offer was reasonable. Mrs S and Mr 
S didnt  agree, and so their case has been passed  to me to decide. 
The complaint has been made by both Mrs S and Mr S. Its Mr Ss policy.  Mrs S is the 
named driver under the policy. And as she was the driver  in the incident and the one who 
has mostly dealt with us, Ill refer to her throughout instead of them both.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator has explained to Mrs S and Mr S, we dont decide who is at fault for 
causing an accident, as this is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
kind is simply to investigate  whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably,  and in line 
with their policys terms and conditions when they made their decision as regards who was 
responsible.  
Mrs Ss car and the other car collided in a car park when she was reversing out of a space. 
She felt that it was the other drivers  fault,  but they said that she had reversed  into them. 
There were no witnesses  but Mrs S found that there was CCTV footage  and she told Admiral  
how to get it. But although Admiral did ask for it promptly and chased it, it was no longer 
available as the owner of the footage only held it for two weeks.  
Mrs S said that if Admiral had got the footage  theyd have seen that the other driver was 
driving too fast and not paying  attention.  So she felt that they had lost the only evidence she 
had to prove that the accident  was not her fault and that made it impossible to give her claim 
fair consideration. 
Admiral admitted they hadn't done enough  to obtain  the CCTV footage and that they should 
have settled on a without  prejudice basis. I think they did reasonably  try to obtain  the 
evidence Admiral wanted them to, and it was unfortunate that  the CCTV footage  had been 
destroyed in only about two weeks, as I consider this to be a shorter than usual period. I 
know that Mrs S thinks the CCTV would  have conclusively shown that she wasnt at fault. 
But I dont think that can be said, as we cant tell for certain what the CCTV would have 
Ref: DRN02821602shown. And though Mrs S said that a member of the car park security company told her that 
they had seen the CCTV footage and that she wasnt  at fault, the security  company did not 
confirm this. 
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy and it says on pages  23 and 24 that:
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence  or settlement of any claim on your behalf 
take legal action over any claim in your name  or the name  of any person insured on 
the policy for our own benefit 
admit  negligence  for any accident or claim on your behalf 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and it allows  Admiral  to settle any claim 
against the policy as they see fit, whether Mrs S or Mr S agree with it or not. Insurers  are 
entitled to make a commercial decision about whether its reasonable for them to settle a 
claim rather than start or defend court proceedings. And its not in an insurers  interest  to 
settle if they think liability is clear and they have reasonable  prospects of successfully 
defending a claim in court. 
Mrs S told Admiral  that she was straightening her car up when it was hit from behind, and 
she said in her complaint  form to us that At the time of the collision my car was stationary or 
close to that. Admiral though that a court  would  likely consider Mrs S to be the at fault party 
because she was reversing from a parking space and so the onus  was on her to do so 
safely, and she couldnt say for sure if she was stationary or not. So they though it unlikely 
on the balance  of probabilities that theyd be successful in court if they tried to defend the 
other drivers  case. I dont think that their decision was unreasonable on the evidence  they 
had at that point.  
Mr S also questioned the other drivers claim for personal injury  as she herself  didnt have 
any major  injury problems. But that doesnt  mean the other driver didnt. An injury  to them  
wasnt implausible given  that, as Mrs S said, the other cars impact was very hard and 
enough to destroy  her cars bumper. And its clear from their file that Admiral intended to 
check that the injury  claim was genuine,  as they expected the other driver to provide them 
with a medical report. 
Mrs S also wanted to see exactly what information Admiral had received from the third party 
and I understand  Admiral  are dealing with that via subject access request under data 
protection law and so I wont  cover  it here.   
Admiral offered Mrs S and Mr S £300 in compensation for how they settled the claim and not 
doing enough to obtain the CCTV footage. But they didnt think that was enough to reflect 
the time and stress that they felt Admirals  actions had caused them, the likely  increase in 
their future premiums,  and the cost of a new bumper, and the policy excess.  But an excess 
is something that has to be paid on any claim, regardless of fault, and so I think  that they 
were liable to pay that. And normally when the policyholder pays  the excess the insurer  will 
pay for required repairs. 
  
Ref: DRN02821603I do see that Mrs S feels upset that she wasnt believed, and I can see that the situation  has 
caused her and Mr S stress and inconvenience.  But as Ive explained above, Admiral are 
entitled to make a commercial judgement  to decide not to defend a court case  and in the 
circumstances of this accident it's not unreasonable for them to think  that theyd be unlikely 
to be able to do so successfully. 
Overall I think  that they have fairly  reviewed  their prospects of success in court.  And though 
they have said that they did not settle  on a without prejudice basis, this may not necessarily 
prevent Mrs S and Mr S from bringing their own court case against the third party if they wish 
to do so. Mrs S and Mr S have not shown  us written legal advice which  says that, due to 
Admirals settlement, it would either not be possible for them to bring such  a court case  at 
all, or would cause  them  unreasonably more difficulty and cost than a normal  such court 
case would. So I think that Admirals compensation for any failings, including the basis on 
which they settled,  was not unreasonable.  And so I dont require Admiral to do anything else.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 December  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282160