K821x#15complaint
Mrs N says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs N took out in 2002  with a credit  agreement.  It was 
added to her account when  she applied  for the credit in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mrs N chose to take the PPI, because FICL  has provided a copy of her application  form for 
the store card where she signed separately  for the policy. FICL had to make  sure it gave 
Mrs N enough information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about 
whether to buy it. I dont  think  FICL did this.
Theres no information on the application  form about  the terms and conditions  of the PPI. So 
Mrs N wouldnt  have known about  any potential exclusions. This was important for Mrs N as 
she had an existing medical condition and it would  have  been excluded from cover   as well 
as any other  conditions which may have arisen  from it.
FICL wanted more  information about  Mrs Ns condition, but I dont think  this is necessary. 
Mrs N has been consistent  about her condition with FICL and with this service and I have no 
reason to doubt that Mrs N has given us correct  information. And Mrs Ns condition is one 
which could have many  other far-reaching  medical  consequences which  would reduce the 
likelihood of making a successful claim. It also couldve  affected her next of kins ability to 
claim on the life insurance element of the policy.
I think if Mrs N had understood the exclusion  hed have  thought  the policy  didnt offer her 
good value for money and she wouldnt have bought it. So I think she lost out as a result  of 
what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs N would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN08573522So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs N owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs N would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs N would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs N 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs N paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs N 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs N what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs N a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ns complaint which means  Financial  Insurance  Company Limited should 
pay compensation as I have described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0857352