K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a credit account. Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple.
Miss M says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss M opened a credit account  in a shop in 1995.  At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Miss Ms account 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Miss M disagreed 
with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ms signed  application for the credit account.  It includes a 
section on PPI. There are brief details of the cover,  and equally prominent  options to 
take or decline it. Theres a tick in the box to indicate that Miss M wished to take the 
cover. Im satisfied  that FICL made  it clear  to Miss M that the PPI was optional.  And 
I think she decided to take it, knowing she had a choice  although  I can understand how 
she may not longer remember this, so long after the event.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M. This means it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. It was for Miss M to decide whether she wanted  the cover, knowing what 
alternative means shed have  had of making  her monthly repayments if shed been off 
sick, or if shed lost her job. But FICL did have a responsibility to give Miss M clear 
enough information about the PPI to enable  her to decide for herself whether she wanted 
the cover.
Ref: DRN01774252Miss Ms told us shed have been  entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from her employer  if shed been  off sick. If shed  made  a successful claim on the 
PPI, it would have  paid a monthly benefit  of 15% of what  she owed on her account. And 
it would  have done this each month until her credit agreement  ended,  or she returned to 
work, or the outstanding balance had been repaid - whichever  was the earliest.  So it 
would potentially have  covered  Miss M for longer than shed have been entitled to full 
sick pay for. Whats more, it would have  paid out in addition  to any payments  she 
received from her employer. And she wouldnt have  had to use her savings  to make her 
account repayments. 
I acknowledge that Miss Ms told us she could have relied on financial support from her 
family if necessary. But circumstances  can change, and I cant  be sure that Miss Ms 
family would  have been in a position  to help if the need  had arisen. Miss Ms also 
mentioned that she had assets  she could have sold to raise money if necessary. But with 
the PPI she could have kept up with her repayments  and retained  those assets.  And 
I think its unlikely, on balance, that shed have wanted to go to the trouble of selling  her 
possessions in order to make  her monthly repayments. So I think  the policy could have 
been useful for Miss M.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Miss M chose to take out the PPI. So 
it looks as if she was interested in this type of cover,  even  if shes  understandably 
forgotten that now, so many years  later.  And based on what shes told us about her 
circumstances at the time, Miss M wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. 
Im satisfied  that it would have  been  clear from the application  form that there would be 
monthly premiums to pay for the cover. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the policy  
was unaffordable for Miss M. Whats more, as she was paying for it monthly, she could 
have cancelled it without any further  cost if her situation changed.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think that better  information  about the PPI would 
have put Miss M off taking it out. So I dont think shes  lost out as a result of anything  that 
FICL may have  done wrong
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.  
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0177425