K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G)  didnt make  a life 
insurance payment  after her husband passed away.
background
In 2001 Mrs A and her husband were taking  out a mortgage. And on the advice of an 
independent financial  advisor (IFA) they bought  a joint term assurance policy with L&G to 
provide extra  protection  for their mortgage. The terms and conditions  of the policy  said it 
would pay a lump  sum to Mrs A or her husband if either  of them:
passed away before the policy end date of 25 October  2018,  or 
were  diagnosed with a terminal illness before the last 18 months of the policy,  in 
other words  before 25 April 2017.
Mrs A called L&G in September 2018  and told it her husband had been diagnosed with a 
terminal illness. She called L&G again  in late October 2018 to say her husband had passed 
away and to ask if it would make a payment  to her given the policy had so recently ended.  
L&G told Mrs A it couldnt  make a payment to her, as her husband had been diagnosed  
within the last 18 months  of the policy and had passed  away after the policy ended.  
Mrs A didnt think that was fair since she and her husband  had paid into the policy  for 
17 years.  So she complained to L&G. In its final response, L&G sympathised but said it had 
been correct not to pay, as the policy had ended and so it wasnt  providing any cover at the 
time Mrs As husband passed away. However  it said when reviewing her complaint it had 
noticed that Mrs A had to repeat herself to lots of different agents, so it offered her £50 
compensation to cover  the cost of her calls.
Mrs A disagreed with L&G, so she asked our service to investigate  whether it had acted 
fairly in not making a payment to her following her husbands death.  She explained that 
shed been left with financial difficulties and thought  that the IFA might have mis-sold the 
policy to her and her husband in 2001.
After looking into things,  the investigator thought L&G had acted fairly because the policy 
had ended when  Mrs As husband passed away. He explained hed only looked into what  
L&G had done,  and offered to set up a separate complaint about the IFA if Mrs A wanted. 
Mrs A confirmed shed first called L&G in September 2018, a month or so before the policy 
ended, to tell it about her husbands  diagnosis and to discuss the end of the policy. She also 
said shed intended  to ask L&G to extend the policy. 
Our investigator didnt  think this changed his view because the terms of the policy  didnt 
allow a terminal illness claim to be made within the last 18 months  of the policy.  But given  
Mrs As circumstances, our service asked L&G if it would consider making  a reduced 
payment to Mrs A as a goodwill gesture to help with funeral costs. L&G said it wouldnt make  
a payment because  it needed to act within the policy terms in order to be fair and consistent 
to all its customers.
Mrs A wanted her complaint to be looked  at again,  so its been passed to me to make a 
decision.
Ref: DRN07494962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs A, so Ill explain why. 
But first Id like to give Mrs A my condolences on her bereavement and acknowledge the 
difficulties shes told us about, which must  have caused her a great deal of distress.  
Id also like to clarify  that my decision is only about L&G not making a payment to Mrs A. Ive 
not considered  the sale of the policy as L&G didnt advise Mrs A about that. And Ive not 
considered the £50 compensation L&G has offered Mrs A for the cost of her calls, as its not 
something Mrs A has complained to our service  about.
The policy Mrs A and her husband bought from L&G was a type of insurance intended to 
provide protection for their mortgage  repayments.  So in return  for the premiums they paid, 
the policy would pay a lump sum if Mrs A or her husband passed away before  the policy 
ended. It would also pay a lump sum if either of them were diagnosed  with a terminal illness  
before the last 18 months of the policy. 
Mrs A says she intended to ask L&G to extend  the policy but Ive seen nothing to suggest  
she talked to it about this, and its not likely an extension would have been possible in any 
case. So the policy ended on 25 October  2018, and it follows  that any terminal illness claim 
on the policy would need to have  been  made before 25 April 2017. 
Mrs A says her husbands terminal illness was first diagnosed in August 2018, and she first 
told L&G about this in September 2018. As her husband was diagnosed  over a year after 
25 April 2017, I dont  think Mrs A has a valid terminal illness claim on this policy. 
Mrs As husband sadly passed  away five days after the policy had ended. While I appreciate 
that was only a short time after the policy ended, it was nonetheless still after.  And once the 
policy ended L&G were  no longer providing  protection and were under no obligation to pay a 
death benefit claim. 
 
For these reasons, I think L&G has acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy  so Im 
not asking it to do anything further.  While  I understand Mrs A would  like L&G to make  a 
payment towards  her husbands funeral costs as a gesture of goodwill, thats  not something 
its obliged to do. 
Ref: DRN07494963my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0749496