K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 with a 
loan. The loan included  an amount to pay for the policy.  Mr A says Northern Bank  Limited 
(NBL) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because and Ill explain why. 
Mr A says he was led to believe the PPI was compulsory. But NBL says it wouldve made  
the optional nature of it clear to him. Neither Mr A nor NBL still have the original paperwork 
from the time of sale, but given how long ago this policy was sold,  thats  not unreasonable. 
But where there is a dispute like this, and there is limited information available,  I have to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on the evidence that is available  - this includes 
Mr As testimony as well as any documentary evidence available.  
NBL has provided a sample application form it says it was using around the time Mr A 
bought his PPI and this has a separate section with the heading Optional Repayment 
Protection Insurance. Customers had to tick a box requesting cover and sign this section to 
take cover. They also had to sign a separate section for the loan itself. Ive also seen a 
sample copy of a loan agreement  which set out the cost of the PPI in a separate  column.  
Customers again had to tick a box and sign the PPI section to request PPI cover. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its likely Mr A wouldve seen documents like this. Overall, I 
think its more likely  NBL made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. 
NBL recommended  the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  the PPI was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example he was 
eligible for the policy. Mr A says he was self-employed and some PPI policies  do make it 
more difficult for self-employed people to make  a claim for unemployment. But Ive looked at 
the terms of this particular  policy and I dont  think it made it harder for Mr A to make a claim 
for unemployment. And he wasnt affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI policy. 
Mr A told us he didnt have any sick pay and he didnt have any other  means to make  his 
repayments so he seems to have  had a need for the cover. Although  he adds that his family 
couldve helped him. But this policy wouldve paid out for the remaining term of the loan if he 
was unable to work  due to accident or sickness and for up to 12 months if he became 
unemployed. And while I have no doubt his family  wouldve  wanted  to help him, their ability  
to help wouldve  depended on their own circumstances at the time which couldve changed. 
And I havent seen  anything that suggests it was unaffordable at the time he took it. So, 
overall, I think he couldve found the policy useful.  I understand he has since  made  a 
successful claim  under  the policy. 
Ref: DRN02709702Its possible the information NBL gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means NBL doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But NBL has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
NBL got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  NBL didnt  tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NBL has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0270970