K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (trading as Porsche Financial Services) (PFS) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. The car was bought back  by the dealership,  but Mr C incurred 
a loss which he feels isnt fair as he thinks  he should have been allowed to reject the car.
Background
Mr C entered into a HPA with PFS in April 2018  to acquire a used car.
On 30 August 2018, the engine management light (EML)  came on and the car shut down. 
Mr C took the car to the dealer and it was reset.  He says that this issue had occurred  on the 
test drive and he was told it would be sorted on collection. He says he was told the issue 
related to the hybrid system and that if it happened again it would be investigated.
In September,  a red EML warning light came on saying there was a hybrid system failure 
and again the car wouldnt start.  Mr C contacted a roadside recovery company which  reset 
the code and he returned the car for investigation. No faults  were  found. However, in 
October, the same warning light came  on and further investigation took place.
In November, Mr Cs car was returned,  and he says that the oil light came on and a 
mechanic was sent out to refill the oil. The car then broke down for a fourth time in 
December 2018  with the red EML warning light for a hybrid system failure showing. The car 
was recovered,  and he says that again  he was told no fault was found.
Mr C says he called PFS to ask to reject the car but was told he couldnt as he had driven 
8,000 miles and he needed  to give the dealer the chance to rectify  any issue. However,  
following the fourth breakdown when again  he was told no faults had been found he decided 
to sell the car back to the dealer. He says he lost out on £12,000 and wants a reasonable 
settlement.
PFS says that it contacted the dealer which said no fault had been found with the car and 
that no repairs or replacement parts had been needed. PFS says that before the car was 
supplied it underwent a full check to ensure it had no faults. It says the car had been 
investigated by two dealers and no faults had been found. The suppling dealer had agreed 
to buy back the car as a gesture of goodwill, and it says that Mr Cs account was settled in 
January 2019.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that although Mr C had experienced 
issues with the car the car had been tested and the fault not replicated. She said that after 
six months the onus  was on Mr C to show the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at acquisition  
and that this could have  happened through an independent inspection report. She said the 
fault hadnt been found by two dealerships and without further  evidence  she wasnt satisfied 
that there  was enough evidence to say that rejection should have been allowed.
Mr C didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He said the car was faulty on the test drive  and 
was reset  and that it then broke down four times  within  eight months due to the same fault. 
He said there was clearly  a fault present within the first six months  as the car wouldnt start 
until the fault codes had been reset. Mr C said he didnt have an independent  inspection  
carried out as he was concerned that an inspector looking into the hybrid  system  could have  
invalidated his warranty.
Ref: DRN02447672My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr C acquired  a high value car and would reasonably expect  to be able to drive it 
without problems. 
Although a fault wasnt identified when the car was investigated, given the warning 
light kept coming on and the car wouldnt start without a reset  taking place I found 
that there was an issue with the car.
I couldnt say why the warning light kept coming  on and as the car was sold further 
investigation wasnt possible  and I couldnt  recommend repairs.  
Given when the issue occurred and the ongoing nature of the problem, I found, on 
balance, that the car wasnt sufficiently durable.  Mr C shouldnt  have experienced 
what appeared to be the same issue on so many  occasions within the first few 
months.
Mr C asked to reject  the car in December 2018.  This wasnt accepted by the 
dealership although  the notes provided  by PFS suggest on the 7 January that there 
may be a right to reject.  On balance, I thought it reasonable that Mr C should have 
been allowed  to reject the car. The car clearly had an ongoing issue  that wasnt able 
to be resolved and so I thought  the only fair outcome  would have been rejection. 
Had rejection been  allowed, Mr Cs agreement would have been settled and his 
deposit returned along with interest. However,  Mr C agreed a price for the car to be 
sold to the dealership  without the involvement of PFS. 
The price agreed  left Mr C with a significant shortfall. The documents  showed the car 
had an original purchase price of £57,250. Mr C paid a deposit of £15,500 (combined 
of a payment  and part exchange amount) leaving £41,750 to be finance through  the 
HPA. In January,  Mr C received a price  of £45,000 for the car which was then 
reduced to reflect  some areas of damage.
Given the unique  circumstances  of this complaint,  I found  the fairest resolution was 
for the shortfall Mr C suffered to be refunded.  
Mr C had reasonable use of the car while it was in his possession and I found that 
the resolution noted above was enough  to settle his complaint.
PFS didnt  agree with my provisional decision. It said that Mr C had no grounds to reject the 
car as no fault had been found. It said Mr C agreed  to sell the car and the price was agreed  
without its involvement and this would have  reflected the mileage and condition of the car. It 
said the mileage  covered  by Mr C showed  his use hadnt been impaired and the additional 
mileage he covered would  have affected  the selling price. It said that the recommendation to 
refund the difference between the agreed  price and selling price was unreasonable.  It 
provided a copy of the checks  carried  out after the car had been  bought  back  by the dealer.
PFS said the car had been re-sold in March 2019  and no issues  had been raised by the new 
owner. 
Ref: DRN02447673My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr C acquired  a used car through a HPA with PFS. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), PFS can be held liable if the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  
as the age and mileage  of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. In this case the car was just over two years old and had been  
driven around 28,000 miles at acquisition.
Mr C experienced an issue four months after acquisition. This meant that the car had to be 
returned for investigation. No fault was found but the code needed to be cleared. Mr C then 
experienced what appeared to be the same issue on several occasions over the following  
months with the car needing to be reset. 
The fault wasnt replicated when Mr C returned the car. However,  given he had to return  the 
car in August and the fault code was removed and he was told to monitor the situation, I 
think that this does raise  concerns. Had the issue not re-occurred then I wouldnt expect any 
further action, but Mr C reported the issue re-occurring on more than one occasion. He 
returned the car and I note he had to have the car recovered as well. Had the car been 
operating as it should have, I do not think this would have happened.
Mr C acquired  a high value car and would have expected it to be reasonably durable. 
Experiencing the same issue  on so many  occasions within  the first few months suggests the 
car was sufficiently durable.  Mr C reported  that the lights came on and the car would jolt and 
stop. I find his testimony reasonable  to accept given the follow up actions he took,  and I can 
see why he was concerned about  driving  the car. I note in one of the job cards it says the car 
was ok until driving in traffic and had one jolt. Overall, based on Mr Cs testimony and the 
number of times he had the car returned or recovered for investigation,  I dont think, on 
balance, it was sufficiently  durable and therefore not of satisfactory quality. 
In these circumstances, repair  could be an acceptable remedy however as the cause of the 
issue hadnt been identified despite  the car being returned on more than one occasion, I 
think the fairest resolution would have been for Mr C to have been allowed to reject the car. 
Had Mr C been allowed to reject  the car when he requested this in December 2018 the car 
would have been returned with nothing further owing and the deposit  refunded.  In this case 
the car was sold back to the dealer. Mr C received an offer of £45,000  for the car which  he 
accepted. This was then reduced  to reflect damage  to the car. I find that any damage  was 
the responsibility of Mr C and so I have considered the sale amount of £45,000. This was 
enough to settle his agreement and left him with additional funds of £4,909.55.
Mr C had paid a deposit of £15,500 and had he rejected the car this would have been 
refunded. However,  as Mr C had already  received £4,909.55 back (after settling his 
agreement) I find it fair that this amount be deducted  from the deposit amount he would have 
received. This results in a refund of £10,590.45. This is less than the amount  I set out in my 
Ref: DRN02447674provisional decision, (and has been explained to Mr C and VWFS)  but I think this is a fair 
reflection of what would  have  happened had the rejection taken place. 
I agree  Mr C had reasonable use of the car and he paid for this through his monthly 
repayments. While I note he had the inconvenience  of having to return the car I do not find 
that any further compensation is required. 
VWFS has said that since the car was sold no issues have been raised. While I have 
considered this, it doesnt change my opinion. I do not have any further information  
regarding the current ownership of the car and given the information provided in regard  to 
the period when Mr C had the car, I do not find that it was sufficiently durable and therefore I 
uphold this complaint in regard to the car not being  of satisfactory  quality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement  Volkswagen Financial Services  
(UK) Limited (trading as Porsche Financial Services) should pay Mr C £10,590.45  to reflect 
the deposit that would have been refunded less the additional funds he received after selling 
the car and settling  his agreement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0244767