K821x#15Complaint
Mr Bs complaint, in summary, is about  the quality of repair  work carried out to his camera  
lens following his insurance claim with Great Lakes Insurance SE. He says that the quality of 
the repair work was poor and so he had to get his lens repaired again  at his own cost, which 
Great Lakes isnt agreeing to reimburse.  Mr B is also unhappy with the way Great Lakes (or 
its representatives) handled  his claim.
Background
In August  2017  Mr B made a claim to Great Lakes for the accidental  damage caused to his 
camera lens. The report of the inspection carried out by Great Lakes confirmed that the lens 
had suffered damage. Following the report, Great  Lakes accepted Mr Bs claim but decided  
that the lens could be repaired rather than replaced. 
Mr B received back the lens from the repairer on 20 September.  He contacted Great  Lakes 
again in April 2018 and said that the lens was still defective. He also complained that his 
claim was poorly handled. 
Great Lakes said that there was no report of any issues by Mr B during the first six months 
following the repair. So, it said that the failure  reported by Mr B was not in respect of the 
repair carried out. However, it said that if Mr B could send his own report confirming the 
cause of the damage and should  the report confirm that the previous  repair  wasnt 
successful, then it would be happy  to review this information  but Mr B should bear the cost 
of the report. 
Following this Mr B approached the same  repairer in November 2018 to get his lens repaired  
at a cost of about £300. 
He then complained to us about Great Lakes. He said that by way of compensation he 
wanted Great Lakes  to reimburse him the £50 excess he paid to it, £20 towards  the cost of 
replacing the filter which he said Great  Lakes  failed to do, the repair  cost he incurred and 
incidental expenses of about £50. He also said that Great Lakes should pay about 
£100,000 for the distress this matter  had caused  to him and his wife.
One of our investigators  reviewed the case  and concluded that it should be upheld. In 
summary, he agreed that Great  Lakes did not handle Mr Bs claim well. He also concluded  
that it is more likely that the initial  repair wasnt carried out satisfactorily.  He recommended 
that Great Lakes  reimburse the cost Mr B incurred  to repair the lens, reimburse the £50 
excess he paid to Great Lakes and pay £300  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr B accepted his recommendation but Great Lakes did not. It agreed to pay the £300 but it 
said that it should not be required to reimburse the excess which Mr B would have incurred 
anyway. It also said that it isnt persuaded from the information it had seen that the 
subsequent repair was due to the initial repair not being carried out satisfactorily.
Mr B responded to say that Great  Lakes  response caused him further distress and asked us 
to take that into account when deciding what should  be appropriate compensation. He also 
said that in addition to what the investigator had proposed,  he should be reimbursed the cost 
of a new filter he had to incur which was £20 and a further £25 for incidental  expenses.
Ref: DRN07999822My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has accepted that it could  have dealt with Mr Bs claim better but it disagrees 
that the subsequent repair  was due to the initial repair not being  carried out satisfactorily.
Mr B has explained what  the initial problems were.  In essence,  they were  abrasion to the 
front of the lens,  damage to the filter and the restricted movement of the zoom barrel. This is 
largely corroborated  by the initial claim note and the inspection report. 
Mr B says that on receipt  of the lens, he noticed  that the filter had not been replaced and so 
he replaced the filter at his own cost of £20. Mr B also says that the front element of the lens 
that had been damaged by the filter glass hadnt  been replaced as well. 
The invoice submitted by the repairer  to the business after completing  the work (invoice 
dated 15 September 2017) state: ..Replaced  lens filter ring and aperture. General  clean,  
check and tested. Replaced faulty  / damaged external part Replacement:  Fixed  barrel..
It doesnt appear from the description  of work carried  out that the repairer  replaced  the filter 
or rectified  the abrasion to the front element of the lens. 
Subsequently when  Mr B sent his lens to the same  repairer, after carrying out the repair it 
confirmed that when he sent the lens to them for repair there was no damage to your ..lens 
apart from the zoom barrel and abrasion  to the front element of the lens. 
I cannot rule out the possibility that during  the initial repair the abrasion  was rectified but later 
there was a new abrasion, once again  to the front element of the lens. But it seems  more 
likely to me that the abrasion wasnt rectified  in September  2018.  I also consider that the 
subsequent report  didnt mention about any issues with the filter because  Mr B replaced  the 
filter as he claims.
As regards  the zoom  barrel,  the invoice, as noted above, suggests that some repair was 
done to the zoom barrel. Indeed, Mr B says he could see that the work  had been  done 
during the initial  repair  but over time the barrel became  loose. 
I see that during  the subsequent repair, the zoom barrel  was replaced. And as noted earlier 
the repairer confirmed  that there  was damage  to the zoom  barrel  when he sent the lens to 
them for repair. 
In this regard  Mr B has referred  us to a damaged  part returned to him by the repairer. In 
particular, he has referred us to the damage  to a countersunk hole. He says that was the 
likeliest cause for the zoom barrel being  very loose. He has argued  that such  damage could 
not be as a result of wear and tear and could  only have been caused by severe  physical 
impact which  happened  when he dropped the camera.  His point is that this damage  existed 
at the time of the initial repair and wasnt properly rectified  resulting  in the subsequent issues 
with the zoom barrel which was later replaced.  
In my view, Mr B has given  a reasonable explanation as to what most likely happened. On 
the other hand,  I am not persuaded that the business has given me any credible explanation 
Ref: DRN07999823as to why it thinks the problems  were as a result  of new issue  and not linked to the initial  
repair. 
It may be that Mr B raised the issue seven months after the initial repair  but that doesnt 
automatically mean that these were new issues. Mr B says that when he received the lens 
back from the initial repair,  he noticed that the abrasion still remained but he determined that 
the damage didnt  actually  show up on the prints he made which  in essence  meant  that he 
had a working camera. Therefore, he says that he decided not to approach Great  Lakes 
again. He says this was due to the stress  and inconvenience he already had to go through 
with Great  Lakes (or its representatives).  I can see that Mr B did have some  difficulties 
especially with the courier and so I can see why he was reluctant to go back  to Great Lakes  
given the experience he had initially, until it became  really necessary.
Taking everything into account,  I agree  with the investigator that it was more  likely that the 
initial repair wasnt carried out satisfactorily  and that resulted in Mr B having  to go back  to 
the repairer again, thereby incurring  additional  cost. 
Therefore I consider  it fair and reasonable that Great  Lakes reimburse him the cost of his 
repair. I also consider it fair, for the reasons  explained, that Great  Lakes reimburses Mr B the 
cost of new filter amounting to £20.  In  addition, it should pay him interest on these payments 
from the dates of payments to the date of settlement.  Interest should  be simple at 8% p.a.
However, I agree with Great  Lakes that Mr B would have been required to bear the excess in 
any case and so I do not consider it reasonable for that to be returned  to Mr B.
I agree  with the investigator that Great Lakes (or its representatives) did not handle  Mr Bs 
claim very well. This is something  Great  Lakes  has acknowledged. I can see that this caused 
considerable distress  and inconvenience to Mr B. The investigator has recommended £300 
towards it. I have fully considered what Mr B has said in this regard. I appreciate  it is difficult 
to translate the distress caused to some monetary value but I think  that the amount 
recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
In addition to this, Mr B also told us recently  that he had incurred  about  £25 towards  for 
incidental expenses such as postage  in sending the lens for repair  the second time. For the 
reasons already explained I consider it reasonable that this is also reimbursed to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN07999824My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should  pay Mr B:
1.£306.56 to cover the cost of his private repair together with simple  interest  at 8% p.a. 
on this amount. Interest should be paid from the date of this payment to the date of 
settlement.
2.£20 towards the cost of replacement filter together with simple  interest at 8% p.a. on 
this amount. Interest  should be paid from the date of this payment to the date of 
settlement.
3.£300 towards distress  and inconvenience  and £25 towards incidental expenses.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0799982