K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc handled their contents claim 
poorly after their boiler leaked. Theyre also unhappy with the inspector who visited their 
home  they say his report contained false information and his promises werent kept.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a leak from their boiler which is located in an airing cupboard   they made 
a claim on their contents policy for water damage  to carpets, bedding, and curtains. The 
cover is underwritten by RSA, which means  its responsible for the claim and also this 
complaint. For ease, I will simply  refer to RSA when  referencing the actions of all the 
businesses involved.
Mr and Mrs B initially claimed £758 for their hallway and bedroom carpets; and £470 for 
bedding and curtains that were being  stored  in the airing cupboard.
RSA appointed a flooring company to inspect the carpets, and asked it to take photos of the 
items that were in the airing cupboard. The inspector reported  that the carpets were dry and 
he couldnt identify  any damage caused  by the incident. He also said some  of the bedding 
had been washed and returned to the airing  cupboard, and the remaining items were damp 
and being kept in two storage  containers in the garden shed. He commented that the 
majority of these remaining items could also be washed.
RSA wrote to Mr and Mrs B to decline  the claim for their carpets  but its letter  didnt mention 
their other items. Mr and Mrs B complained about  the outcome of their claim, and RSAs call 
notes state that Mr B told it their bedding had been replaced for £390.
RSA concluded  that, based on the inspectors observations, the carpets had been  correctly 
declined. However,  it upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the airing cupboard  items. RSA 
said it had given Mr and Mrs B incorrect advice when they called to report  the claim  it said 
they should have been told to wash their items to see if they could be restored, rather  than 
being told to store them outside. RSA accepted that the items were now beyond repair and 
asked Mr and Mrs B to provide receipts  for the replacements so it could consider making a 
payment for these.
RSAs call notes state that Mr B declined its offer to cover their bedding  because  the council  
had already covered that cost  but they wanted  £340  compensation  for how they had been 
treated by the inspector.  The notes  state  that Mr B had arrived at this figure because it was 
the cost of the replacement bedding  paid for by the council.
In response RSA said it wasnt present during the visit so it was unable to investigate  their 
concerns about  the inspectors conduct,  but it apologised if the service was less than 
expected. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. Mr and Mrs B explained  the following during 
their conversations  with our investigator: 
the inspector  promised to take the damaged items away  and inspect them,  but they 
were left rotting in their garden  and shed  attracting insects and vermin;
Ref: DRN05021572Mr B had to get permission from the council to put the items in their bin  he says he 
shouldnt have  had to move the items  himself  and made the point that hes in his 
seventies  and both he and Mrs B have some health issues;
the inspector  had a poor attitude and he told lots of lies in his report;
the claim was genuine   all their bedding  was soaked through  and they didnt wash 
any of the items or return them to the airing cupboard  as they werent  fit to wash,  all 
of the items were thrown out;
they were only claiming  for the items  left outside in the two containers  but they 
could have claimed for more   some of the bedding was given away  to a friend;
the only bedding they had in their airing cupboard during the inspectors visit was the 
items they had borrowed from their family  and friends;
the council  gave them about  £230  to replace their bedding, as a goodwill gesture, 
because they had none;
they are no longer  claiming for their bedding  as the council has paid for it, but they 
want compensation from RSA for how their claim was handled;
they have  accepted  the decision about  their carpets, however their boiler  has burst 
on four occasions  and so they believe the carpets have been damaged over time
Our investigator considered the above points  but she didnt  think  the complaint should be 
upheld. She explained that because Mr and Mrs B had accepted RSAs decision about  the 
carpets she had focused on the airing  cupboard items and the handling of the claim. She 
agreed that RSA should cover the items  that had been left outside on its instruction  but 
she also concluded that in this instance,  RSA didnt need to do anything because  the 
replacement costs had already been met by the council. 
Our investigator acknowledged  Mr and Mrs Bs frustration at not having had the damaged 
items collected if this is what  they were told would happen. But she thought  RSAs  apology 
for the misunderstanding  was enough  given the council had removed the items  without 
charge.
Because Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigator,  the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the phone calls Mr and Mrs B had with our investigator. Having reviewed 
those conversations in the context of the inspectors photos and RSAs call notes  its not, 
in my view,  particularly clear what items from the airing cupboard were thrown out, or what  
items Mr and Mrs B intended  to claim for. Furthermore,  in terms of the funds they received 
from the council  and their replacement  bedding costs, several different figures have been 
mentioned  so this isnt clear either.
Ref: DRN05021573However, overall Im not persuaded any of that really matters here. RSA has confirmed it will 
consider the cost of the replacement airing  cupboard items, and its asked Mr and Mrs B to 
provide it with their receipts so it can do so. They  have previously told RSA that they have 
already replaced  the items, so they should  be able to provide the receipts  if indeed  they 
still want to make the claim. 
Im satisfied that RSAs  offer to consider  the receipts for the replacement  items is fair  and 
is a reasonable  approach to settling  this part of the claim given some of the circumstances  
are unclear.
In respect of the carpets,  having considered the inspectors observations  and photos, Im not 
persuaded theres any lasting damage  as a result of the water  leak. The inspector has noted  
some general wear and tear  but this type of damage is excluded  by the policy  terms. So 
Im satisfied the carpets were fairly declined.
This leaves  how the claim was handled.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly  on 
this point and Ive carefully considered  what theyve  told us. However, we havent been  told 
anything that leads me to believe the inspectors conduct was inappropriate. 
If there was incorrect information in the inspectors report  in terms of the items he said had 
been washed and returned  to the airing  cupboard, Im not persuaded that this was anything  
but an honest misunderstanding. Likewise,  whilst  I do accept Mr and Mrs B were told their 
items would be collected, I also accept this was a misunderstanding on the inspectors 
behalf  but nonetheless, Ive considered what impact this had on Mr and Mrs B. 
The photos  Ive seen show that two relatively  small containers of items were left outside; and 
I acknowledge that putting up with this for a period  of time, and having  to arrange for them to 
be disposed of, would have caused  some  inconvenience and frustration. But having  thought  
about matters carefully, overall Im not persuaded that the degree of trouble this issue can 
reasonably be said to have caused Mr and Mrs B is enough to award  compensation or 
uphold their complaint.
So to summarise, whilst I acknowledge there are some things RSA could have done better 
during the claim, overall Im not persuaded the impact of those things  on Mr and Mrs B merit 
compensation. Furthermore,  if they do wish to proceed with the claim for the damaged  airing 
cupboard items, I consider it reasonable they provide RSA with the receipts for the 
replacements  so it can consider these costs in-line  with the policy  terms.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0502157