K821x#15the complaint
Mr M says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him and caused a delay getting  a 
replacement debit card. 
what happened
At the end of March 2018 Mr M lost his debit card, so he asked TSB to cancel it. TSB sent a 
new card and PIN to his home address but they were intercepted and used fraudulently.  
TSB refunded the fraudulent transactions and Mr M asked the bank not to send another card 
to his home address as his post wasnt secure. Instead he visited a branch and arranged to 
have his new card and PIN sent there  but they never arrived.
In April TSB experienced  IT problems, which increased the number of complaints and 
queries it was dealing with. Mr M made  several trips to a TSB branch over the next few 
weeks to chase up his card  and to find out why he couldnt operate his account properly. 
He also spent a lot of time on the phone  to TSB, often on hold. When  he did get through to 
people, they couldnt help him. 
In early June TSB discovered and removed a block on Mr Ms account. And Mr M says some  
time after that a new card was unexpectedly sent to his home  address. He destroyed that 
card and has closed  his account.  Hes complained about the poor service he received. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  TSB should pay £300 for the 
inconvenience and frustration caused  to Mr M  as well as £10.80 for petrol costs for the 
branch visits hed made.
TSB accepted this, but Mr M didnt.  He said a TSB staff member had suggested he could  be 
entitled to around  £1,000 in compensation. He said the compensation the adjudicator 
recommended didnt take into account five days hed taken off work to go to the branch. 
And he thinks hes spent  around  100 hours  on the phone  to TSB.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so I think the compensation the adjudicator recommended is a fair way to resolve 
this complaint. I know Mr M was hoping  for more,  so Ill explain why I think  this is fair. 
Its clear TSB didnt provide a good level of service to Mr M  and it caused  him annoyance 
and inconvenience  over a long period of time.  The replacement card and PIN werent 
ordered and sent to the branch as hed asked.  And it seems Mr M was also affected by the 
more general IT issues TSB had around this time.  It took Mr M several branch visits and a 
number of long phone  calls before  TSB realised there was a block  on his account and 
removed it.
Mr Ms told us he took time off work  to go to the branch  and that he also spent several 
evenings after work on the phone to TSB.  So he wants compensation for that. He hasnt 
provided any evidence  of lost work caused  by the branch visits and hes said he thinks  any 
calls were probably included in his phone contract and didnt cost him extra. But these 
Ref: DRN03796162issues obviously took up a lot of Mr Ms time and so Ive taken that into account  when  Ive 
thought about a fair amount of compensation. 
The problems meant Mr M didnt have a debit card to use with his TSB account. Hes said it 
was frustrating and a hassle having  to move money to another account and rearrange his 
finances and payments.  I can understand that  and I agree its appropriate for TSB to pay 
Mr M some compensation for the impact this had on him.  
But I also have to balance  up what happened against the fact that Mr M did have another 
account he could  use. I can see from his statements that he moved money  out of his TSB 
account to that other account   initially in small,  regular amounts and then in larger,  single 
transactions. So, whilst he clearly wanted  to be able to use his TSB account,  the situation  
had less impact than it might have  done if he hadnt  had another  account to use. He was still 
able to access his money  throughout this period.  And, if course, he ultimately decided to 
move away  from TSB altogether.  
Mr M says he wants fair compensation for the inconvenience and frustration TSB caused 
him. I can appreciate his strength  of feeling,  especially  given how long this went on for and 
that it wasnt ever resolved properly. I also acknowledge that hes been  led to believe he 
might be entitled to a four-figure compensation payment. But, taking everything  into account, 
I think the £300 (plus  petrol costs) the adjudicator has already recommended is a fair 
amount of compensation for the issues Mr M experienced. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr M £300 for the impact the IT issues had
and pay £10.80 for petrol costs. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
TSB Bank plc must put things right by doing what Ive said above   if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0379616