K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about changes  Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) made to its overdraft pricing 
structure. He says he wasnt informed, and this has put him in a difficult financial position.  
background
Mr W has a current  account with Lloyds,  with an arranged overdraft facility  in place. In 
December 2018,  he complained to Lloyds after he realised he was being  charged daily 
overdraft fees. He said hed budgeted for the charges based on what he was paying before 
he left the UK. But the daily charging structure  meant he was overdrawn by a much higher 
amount than hed thought. Mr W said the extra cost would make his overdraft more  difficult 
to repay.  
Lloyds said it had written  to Mr W in advance of changes to its overdraft pricing structure  in 
November 2017,  and the letter was sent to his registered postal address at the time. It also 
said it was Mr Ws responsibility to check  his account balance through internet banking since  
he was registered  for paperless statements. So, it believed  it hadnt done anything  wrong  in 
this regard. But it paid Mr W £180 for not updating his address correctly  when he phoned in 
April 2018.
Mr Ws complaint  was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought  Lloyds ought to 
have realised Mr W was experiencing  financial difficulty by October 2017 and so shouldnt  
have added any more  interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Lloyds didnt respond so the case was passed  to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued  charging  overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed 
Mr Ws overdraft  in October 2017.  The adjudicator has referenced  23 October 2017 as the 
date Mr Ws overdraft was renewed.  But given the statement issued on 3 October  2017  
shows the renewal  date had changed  to October  2018, I consider Lloyds renewed Mr Ws 
overdraft prior to 3 October 2017.  
By this point, it ought to have been clear to Lloyds Mr W hadnt seen or maintained a credit  
balance for nearly  five months. In fact, in the 14 months leading  to 3 October  2017, there 
were only two credit transactions into his account. 
Lloydss own literature  suggests that overdrafts  are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So, I think  Mr Ws overdraft  usage  should have prompted 
Lloyds to have  realised he wasnt using his overdraft  as intended  and shouldnt  have 
continued offering  it on the same terms. 
Ref: DRN05910742As Lloyds  didnt react to Mr Ws overdraft usage  and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably. 
I also note from its submissions that contrary to what its said in its final response letter, 
Lloyds didnt send  the overdraft mailing letter to Mr W in 2017.  Its investigation  notes 
suggest mail correspondence to Mr W had been  previously returned in 2015. Although 
Lloyds hasnt confirmed  this, in my experience  banks suspend postal correspondence when 
mail is returned undelivered. And we know, it didnt  send  this notification via email either. 
Even if Im wrong about this and Lloyds did send the notification letter to Mr W like it says it 
did, for the reasons given I still think it shouldnt have continued offering him an overdraft on 
the same  terms when it reviewed the arrangement just prior to October 2017  before these 
changes took place.
Mr W ended  up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft  and changes  to 
Lloydss overdraft pricing structure ended up exacerbating the situation. So, I think Lloyds 
didnt treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means it 
should put things right.
fair compensation  what  Lloyds needs to do to put things  right for Mr W.
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for Lloyds  to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges  
applied to it after the renewal just prior to 3 October 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made, Lloyds  should contact Mr W to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ws credit 
file, it should reflect what would  have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action  on the overdraft in October  2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN05910743Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2021.
Gagandeep Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0591074