K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that the car he acquired with finance  from Advantage Finance Ltd (AF)  isnt 
of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr P says he acquired the car in February 2018. He says it was smoking as soon as he 
drove it off the forecourt.  He says he was told it would clear up, but it didnt. And he says the 
parking sensors  also didnt work.  
Mr P also says the faults included smoking,  an oil leak,  rear sensors not working and pitted 
and noisy brake discs. He says these issues were present from when he took out the finance 
agreement. So, he doesnt think the car was of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose at that 
time.
In addition, Mr P says on 8 June  2018 when he was driving  the car home after it had been at 
the garage for repairs, it made an awful noise. He says he stopped  to see what had 
happened and the car hasnt been  driveable  since. And he says a previous owners told him 
when he had the car it was smoking,  losing  oil, was sluggish and had electrical  issues.    
AF says Mr P took out his hire purchase  agreement in February 2018 when the car was 12 
years old and had covered 70,122  miles. It says the car passed its MOT three  days later with 
no advisory notices being  issued. And it says Mr P or his partner contacted  it four times over 
the following  three months about  payments, without mentioning any issues  with the car.
AF also says the first time Mr P raised any issues about the car with it was on 30 May 2018,  
when he said the mileage was 73,000. It says an independent inspection was carried  out on 
15 June 2015.  And it says the inspector concluded  that the car was of satisfactory  quality for 
its reported mileage  at the date of supply.
AF also says the inspector confirmed the car was currently  unfit for purpose  as it wouldnt 
start. It says the inspector  concluded this could be due to a multitude of reasons, such as a 
sudden electrical  failure,  mechanical failure or timing belt failure. It says the inspector 
couldnt confirm  the non-starting issue was related  to previous repairs. And it says on 20 July 
2018 the inspector concluded that none of the issues  a previous owner had reported would 
account for the current engine failure.  
Our investigator thought Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
investigators conclusions.  He said the reason the car doesnt  now run is a direct result of the 
garage doing work to fix an issue with the piston rings that caused the engine  to smoke.  And 
he said this issue was there on the day he picked  the car up, so its the garages 
responsibility. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN09781092I see Mr Ps experienced several faults  with his car, some of which I understand have been 
resolved by the supplying dealer. But I also see his main concern is about the fault thats 
resulted in the car no longer working.  So, my decision concentrates on that issue. 
AF supplied Mr Ps car under a hire purchase  agreement, so it was responsible  for ensuring 
the car was of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. Ive looked carefully at the 
information Mr Ps given us from a previous  owner  relating to issues with the car before Mr P 
acquired it. And I see the engineer who carried out an independent inspection of the car on 
15 June 2018  later considered this information and commented on it on 20 July 2018.  
I see the inspector  found that none  of the issues reported by the previous owner  would or 
could have resulted  in the current engine non-starting issue.  I see the engineer was 
confident that the most likely cause was a sudden electrical fault which,  the engineer said,  
would not have been present when Mr P acquired the car. And I see the engineer  concluded 
there was no plausible evidence noted  at the time of inspection  to confirm the current  issues 
were present  or in development at the point of supply of the car to Mr P.
I think this conclusion by an independent expert is significant.  I also have to take account  of 
the age and mileage of the car when Mr P acquired  it and the fact that hed covered around 
a further 3,000  miles in it before the non-starting issue  presented. And, bearing all of these 
matters in mind, I cant conclude its most likely  this issue was the result  of a fault that was 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr P. I think  its at least  as likely it was 
the result  of normal wear  and tear for a car of that age and mileage.  
I acknowledge Mr Ps told us he thinks the non-starting issues a direct result of maintenance 
work to remedy a fault that was present when he acquired the car. But this isnt supported by 
the conclusions  of the independent expert.  And AF wouldnt  be responsible  for the 
consequences of defective maintenance work on the car after Mr P acquired it, in any event. 
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Ps complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against  Advantage Finance  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0978109