K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him an Ultimate 
Reward current account (URCA) packaged  bank account in 2010.
background
Mr R upgraded to the URCA  from a free account in April 2010.  He says he upgraded online 
after talking to a member of staff in one of the banks branches. He downgraded the account 
back to a fee free account in February 2012 and closed the account around a year later.
He says he was advised to upgrade to the URCA because all accounts  were becoming fee 
based. And he says he was attracted  by some of the benefits that came with the account, 
but later found  he either was ineligible or wasnt covered. He wants Halifax  to refund the 
account fees, plus interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr R didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
His claim for accidental damage  to his mobile phone was declined because it was being 
used by his partner. But Halifax had accepted this when he registered the phone with it.
He had to pay a call out charge for breakdown  cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Rs complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think Halifax  mis-sold the URCA 
or that it has treated Mr R unfairly. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr R was given a clear choice in taking this account.  At this 
point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based  on what 
I think is most likely  to have happened. When the parties to a complaint disagree  about what 
happened (such  as here) and theres a lack of evidence  from the time,  I have  to think about  
what I have been  provided with, what  I do know and the wider  circumstances at the time. In 
other words, what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I think is likely to have happened 
having weighed  up what both Mr R and Halifax have been able to provide me with.  
Mr R upgraded to the URCA  from a free account hed had for around five years. So I think  
that Mr R wouldve known  he couldve had a fee free account  if thats  what  he really  wanted. 
He told us that when he visited a branch he was told it would only be a matter of time before 
all bank accounts were  fee based.  But, if thats what he was told and he didnt want a fee 
paying account, it seems  likely to me that he wouldve waited until his account changed 
automatically rather than pre-empting this. So, overall,  I think  that Mr R chose to take the 
URCA after having been given a choice.  
Ref: DRN01581382Mr R says that Halifax recommended the URCA to him. But this is based on what  hes said 
about the conversation he had in one of its branches. Although I cant  be certain  exactly  
what was discussed,  I think  its more likely that the member of staff told Mr R about the 
account and its features  but didnt provide a personal recommendation. I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that an assessment of Mr Rs demands and needs  was carried out, 
which is what shouldve happened if the URCA had been recommended. Mr R says that he 
didnt have time to apply  for the account  in the branch so he waited and later applied online.
So, overall, I dont  think Halifax recommended  the URCA  to Mr R so it didnt have to check  if 
it was suitable  for him. But it did have to give him clear enough information so that he could 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the account. 
When Mr Rs account was upgraded it included mobile phone insurance,  breakdown  cover 
and travel insurance. It included a number of other benefits and features such as home 
emergency cover, card protection,  travel accident cover, purchase protection and price  
promise. But Mr Rs told us that the first three policies in particular were the ones that 
attracted him to the account. But he says they didnt  turn out to be as beneficial  as theyd 
been described.
mobile phone insurance
Mr R says that, when his phone was damaged, he tried to make a claim but it was 
unsuccessful because  he wasnt the one using the phone. He says the insurer  knew that 
was the case  because when he registered  his phone  he told the insurer it was his partner  
who used the phone.
Mr R has given us a detailed recollection  of what happened, and I dont doubt what  hes 
said. But the insurers records show that Mr R decided not to pursue a claim when he found 
out he would  only receive a refurbished  phone,  and not a new one. So I cant  see that Mr R 
has lost out because the insurer  allowed him to register  a phone that was being  used  by his 
partner. I say this because the insurers  records show  that he didnt  have a failed claim  he 
chose not to claim because he wanted a new, rather than a refurbished phone. And that 
didnt form part of the policys terms.
car breakdown cover
Mr R says when he used  this cover he had to pay a £150 call out charge. But hed been  
attracted to the policy because it included home start breakdown. Halifax  has provided us 
with the policy features  from April 2010 and home start isnt included.  So I cant  conclude 
that Mr R was mis-led. And he still benefitted from having the cover for any breakdown  away 
from his home.
travel insurance.
Mr R says there were too many exclusions in this cover and the excesses were too high. He 
says the policy was described as having neither. But the exclusions and excesses werent 
unusual for a travel policy. And Ive not seen any reason why Mr R couldnt have used the 
cover.
Ref: DRN01581383Mr R may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think he shouldnt  have upgraded. And given 
what he mightve read or heard about packaged bank  accounts, I can understand why he 
believes his URCA might have been mis-sold. But I think its most likely Mr R chose to take 
the URCA.  And while  he may now believe the account hasnt proved value for money, Ive 
not seen enough here to make me think that Halifax  misled him. Or that he wasnt  eligible to 
use the key features of the account. So I dont think Halifax mis-sold  the URCA to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0158138