K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Gain Credit  LLC trading  as Lending Stream approved loans  which were 
unaffordable and he was not able to meet his essential living expenses.  
Mr W is represented by a third party. 
background
Lending Stream approved eight instalment loans between December 2015 and 
November 2016  ranging from £80 to £480. 
The first three loans were  repaid by Mr W. Payment arrangements  were  agreed between the 
parties around January 2017  for the other  five loans. Mr W complained to Lending Stream  
through his representative around October  2017. 
The complaint was brought to this service in April 2018. Lending Stream sent to us its 
submissions to defend  the complaint in May 2018.  
One of our adjudicators requested additional  information from Mr Ws representative but this 
has never been received. So her assessment of the complaint was carried  out on the 
information available to her and both parties were  informed of her view in October 2018. 
Our adjudicator thought that the checks Lending Stream  carried  out for Loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. But she did not think that proportionate checks were  carried  out in relation to 
Mr Ws applications for Loans 3 to 8, of which she upheld the complaint for Loans  3 and 4 on 
unaffordability grounds. 
For Loans 5 to 8 she was not able to assess  these due to lack of information from Mr W. 
Mr Ws representative has not made any additional  submissions or sent anything further for 
us to consider.  So I take it from Mr Ws representatives lack of response that it takes no 
issue with the adjudicators opinion. 
Lending Stream accepted the opinion and has been collating the information to put things 
right for Mr W for some time. So Lending Stream has agreed to the resolution. But due to 
lack of progress  since then, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
Having reviewed the adjudicators opinion, and in view of the matters outlined  in the 
background section  to this decision then I confirm that opinion and uphold the complaint in 
relation to Loans 3 and 4. 
Ref: DRN03455012putting things right 
To put things right for Mr W, I direct that Lending  Stream should:
refund  all the interest and charges applied as a result of Loans  3 and 4; and
add interest at 8% per year simple interest*  on the above  refunded  sums from the 
date they were paid,  if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Mr Ws credit  file as a result of 
the interest and charges on Loans 3 and 4;
Lending Stream is entitled to set off any monies arising from the redress  against any monies  
Mr W may owe it, but to be clear this should  only be in respect of the principal sum 
borrowed. Any unpaid  charges and interest would need to be removed first and any 
payments made to either  loan treated  as if Mr W had paid down the principal.
If a third party owns any debt then in order to do the set off I have outlined  above, Lending 
Stream will need to repurchase that debt. If it does not do that then it cannot do the set off 
and the full amount due will be repayable to Mr W directly. And in those circumstances the 
third party will need to be directed by Lending Stream  to correct any adverse entries on 
Mr Ws credit file, so far as it is able to do so. 
Any monies outstanding can be repaid by a repayment plan if one is not already in place.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct that Lending Stream 
does as I have  set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0345501