K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Inter Partner  Assistance S.A. gave poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr K had a policy to cover his central  heating boiler.  It was branded  with the name  of an 
insurance intermediary.  Mr K paid a yearly  premium.
IPA was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to IPA or the insurer, I 
include its engineers,  claims-handers and others for whose  actions  I hold IPA responsible.
Mr K contacted IPA for help when his boiler stopped working properly. He complained that 
IPAs engineer - rather than fixing it - negligently  damaged the boiler.  So Mr K called out his 
own engineer  at a cost of £50.00. That engineer  said it would be dangerous to use the 
boiler. So Mr K had to pay for a new one. 
He thinks IPA should reimburse him for the insurance premium, the call-out  fee and the new 
boiler.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think that 
IPA had made a mistake.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that IPAs engineer diagnosed that it wasn't a circuit board 
fault, but didn't ask permission to progress further with the repair. He was heavy handed and 
caused damage to the boiler  case, the boiler  seal and the filling  loop handle, Mr K says.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the manual  for Mr Ks boiler,  Ive seen a recommended clearance of 50mm  to the right 
hand side of the boiler.  
From the photographs,  I see that someone  had installed Mr Ks boiler with no clearance 
between it and the wall to the right.
From what  Mr K says, hed taken out the policy  in about 2011. He hasnt  said that was for a 
different boiler.
Mr K has referred to a repair in 2013. He says IPA did it without  saying there wasnt enough  
clearance around the boiler. But I dont think his recollection is correct.
I say that because IPAs  notes include  the following:
there's not a lot of clearance also and if the fan, aps or burner  needed to be changed 
then you wouldn't  be able to access to do this, recommended that the boiler be 
moved to allow  any repairs be done  in the future if needed.
Ref: DRN01848152From the photographs,  I think  the boiler remained up against  the wall.
The policy covered parts and labour for repairs up to a limit of £500.00 including VAT.
Many policies exclude cover for boilers  that havent  been installed in line with manufacturers  
recommendations. But Mr Ks policy had no such exclusion.
In September  2018, Mr K already had a problem when he contacted  IPA. Thats why he 
contacted it. And I dont  think  anyone has actually diagnosed the cause of the problem  or 
what wouldve been required to fix it.
I dont agree with Mr K that the engineer shouldve asked  him for permission to remove the 
boiler casing. I think thats implicit in calling a boiler engineer.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ks statement that the engineer used force  to try to remove the 
boiler casing. But that doesnt mean  he was negligent  (in other  words,  lacked reasonable 
care). Mr K hasnt shown that other  engineers wouldve done differently in the same  
circumstances.
The engineer said he couldnt diagnose  the fault because of lack of clearance around  the 
boiler. I think he turned off the gas supply and left. Of course  Mr K was disappointed  and 
concerned about  that.
And Mr K later complained about  how the engineer had conducted himself.  But Mr K hasnt 
provided enough detail to persuade me that the engineers behaviour fell below a 
reasonable standard.
I keep in mind the recommendations  made by the boiler manufacturer and by the engineer in 
2013. I also dont  know the cause of the problem with the boiler. So I cant  say that the 
engineer shouldve repaired the boiler.
I accept that Mr K paid his own engineer  a £50.00  call-out fee. And after that, Mr K paid for 
the installation  of a new boiler.
Mr K has suggested that these costs were caused  by IPA. In particular he says that its 
engineer negligently damaged the casing of the boiler, the seal of the combustion chamber 
and the handle of the filling  loop.
If I thought IPA had negligently caused such damage and failed  to repair  it, then I would find 
it fair to order it to pay some compensation  not the whole cost of the new boiler.
But Mr K and his own engineer  havent persuaded me that IPAs engineer fell below a 
reasonable standard of skill and care and negligently caused such damage.  And they 
havent shown  what had caused the boiler  to break  down in the first place. So they havent  
shown that IPAs engineer negligently  caused  damage to an otherwise repairable  boiler.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to order IPA to reimburse Mr K for the premium, 
the call-out fee or the new boiler   or to do anything  further in response  to his complaint.
Ref: DRN01848153my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I do not 
direct Inter Partner Assistance S.A. to do anything further in response  to Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0184815