K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays bank Plc trading  as Woolwich  wont  allow  them to port 
their mortgage product  to a property they already own.  Mr and Mrs G would like Woolwich to 
allow them to port their mortgage product.
background
Mr and Mrs G bought  at property 11 years ago with a Woolwich mortgage. After  eight years 
Mr and Mrs G ported  the mortgage product  to another property and were told by a mortgage  
adviser that they could port back to the original property which they still owned  at any time.  
But when Mr and Mrs G asked about  porting  the product in 2018, Woolwich  told them it 
wasnt possible to port to a house  they already  owned.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Woolwichs  
lending criteria meant that Mr and Mrs G couldnt  port to a property that Mr and Mrs G 
already owned.  Mr and Mrs G disagreed saying in summary that Woolwich  had breached  its 
agreement with them.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have a favourable rate of interest  on their mortgage  and would  like to take the 
product with them when they sell their present house and move  back  to one they already 
own. A mortgage is normally a loan to allow a customer to buy a property. But in this case, 
Mr and Mrs G dont want to buy a property  but just to port the existing product. 
Mr and Mrs G presently  have a mortgage  contract  which allowed them to purchase their 
present property. They also have a mortgage  product which  gives  them  a favourable  rate of 
interest. If they sell their present house, they will redeem  the mortgage  and the mortgage  
contract will come to an end. They may be able to transfer the mortgage product which  is the 
favourable rate of interest if they take out another mortgage contract-this is called porting.
Woolwichs condition that porting is subject  to its lending criteria  is a common term among  
most lenders. Woolwich says that it doesnt allow a customer to transfer the mortgage  
product to a mortgage on a house the customer already owns. That in my experience  is also 
a common term among most lenders. So, I dont believe  that Woolwich is treating Mr and 
Mrs G unfavourably because of the favourable interest rate they enjoy. Woolwich  is applying  
the terms that all its customers applying to port will be subject to.
I know Mr and Mrs G are concerned that Woolwich seems to be changing its contract  terms 
unilaterally. As long as Mr and Mrs G remain in their present property, they and Woolwich  
will be subject  to the mortgage contract. This contract ends when the mortgage is redeemed.  
Woolwich has told Mr and Mrs G that they can take the interest rate with them  but subject to 
its lending criteria. The fact that Woolwichs lending criteria doesnt allow  Mr and Mrs G to 
take a mortgage product to a house  they already  own is not a breach of contract but is in line 
with Woolwich doing what it said it would do and applying its lending criteria  to the 
application. 
Ref: DRN06740262Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs G may have been told by a mortgage  adviser  that they could 
port their mortgage  back to the property  they owned  if they wanted.  But I have to accept that 
the mortgage offer which Mr and Mrs G signed  up to makes  clear that the ability to port is 
subject to Woolwichs lending criteria, As I understand it the same  objection to porting a 
mortgage product  to a mortgage  on a property a customer already owned existed when Mr 
and Mrs G took out their present mortgage.  So it doesnt appear  to be the case  that 
Woolwich has changed its lending criteria  in this respect. So, I am satisfied  that in refusing 
this application  that Woolwich is acting fairly in line with its lending criteria.  For the above  
reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint,
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0674026