K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) closed  his accounts, without explaining its 
reasons for doing so. He wants Lloyds  to reopen  his accounts and explain why it closed 
them.
background
In October  2018, Lloyds  blocked Mr Hs personal  accounts and carried out a review, after he 
received a payment of £40,000.  After completing its review,  Lloyds  wrote  to Mr H to let him 
know it had decided to close  his accounts.  It gave  him 60 days notice to make other banking 
arrangements. It also closed the business account  he held in his name.
Mr H complained, saying  hed banked with Lloyds  for 40 years. He wanted  Lloyds  to explain 
why it had closed  his accounts, and to re-open  them.
After looking into Mr Hs complaint, Lloyds rejected it. It said it had taken a commercial  
decision not to offer him banking services  any longer, and that it wasnt  obliged  to explain its 
reasons.
Mr H was unhappy with Lloydss response, so he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator considered  what  Lloyds  had done,  and said it had acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of his accounts  when  it blocked and closed them. She thought Lloyds 
had provided sufficient notice to Mr H, and said she wouldnt be asking them to do anything 
further to resolve  his complaint.
Mr H remained  unhappy, so he asked  for an ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint.
I can understand why Mr H is upset. Hed banked with Lloyds for a long time and had his 
accounts blocked then closed, without  receiving an explanation. But for me to uphold his 
complaint I have to think Lloyds has done  something  wrong.  And in this case, I dont  think it 
has. Ill explain why.
account block
Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked  and 
reviewed Mr Hs account. And that it was entitled to review  Mr Hs account under the 
account terms and conditions.
Having looked  at the evidence, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
Lloyds, given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures  when  it blocked  
and reviewed the accounts.
So, Im not going  to ask it to compensate him for any distress and inconvenience this may 
have caused.
Ref: DRN00692192account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the accounts  which both Lloyds and Mr H had to comply with 
 say that it could  close  the accounts by giving two months notice. Theres no obligation on 
Lloyds to disclose  the reasons for its decision.
Lloyds sent two closure letters to Mr H, one relating to his business account, and one 
relating to his personal accounts.  And both letters gave Mr H the required two months 
notice. So, while I understand Mr Hs frustration at the situation and I know  hell be 
disappointed with the outcome, having looked at all of the available evidence, I cant say that 
Lloyds has done  anything wrong. So Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0069219