complaint
Miss S says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) irresponsibly lent to her. Miss S says she 
had other  credit commitments and shouldnt have been allowed to borrow from Uncle  Buck.
 background
This complaint is about one short-term loan Uncle Buck provided to Miss S in September 2018. 
Miss S borrowed £450 which she was to repay  monthly  over six months. The monthly 
repayment amount  was £134. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint and thought that taking into account Miss Ss 
known circumstances  at the time the loan was given, there wasnt anything  to suggest that she 
wasnt able to sustainably  make the repayments.  
Miss S disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved it has been  passed to me to decide 
in my role as ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints about 
short-term lending  including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  
on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a borrowing
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN0235553K820x#14But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  the arguments,  evidence and information in this context and what  
this all means for Miss Ss complaint. Having done  this, Im not upholding the complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
Uncle Buck  has told the service about  the checks it carried between  in September  2018  
before approving the borrowing. It has said it asked Miss S about  her employment status 
and she confirmed she was employed  and had a monthly income of £2,400. Uncle  Buck also 
checked Miss Ss normal monthly living costs. Miss S declared  these  as around £1,400 per 
month, including other credit commitments  of £750.
Uncle Buck  says it also searched Miss Ss credit file, and it reports  there wasnt any recent 
adverse entries  recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out. I think  it was reasonable 
for Uncle Buck to have relied on this information  bearing in mind this was the first loan that 
Miss S had taken from Uncle Buck and her stated monthly commitment wasnt onerous.  So, 
in these circumstances it wasnt  irresponsible to lend to her.
Its possible that Miss Ss financial circumstances  werent correctly  reflected in either the 
information she provided, or the other information Uncle  Buck obtained such  as the results  of 
its credit  checks. And Miss Ss actual  financial position may well have been apparent if 
further information  such as bank  statements or more in-depth credit checks   had been 
obtained. Miss S has said she underestimated  the amount of her outgoings in relation to 
credit commitments.
But Uncle Buck could only make a decision  based on the information  it had available at the 
time. In these circumstances  at the beginning  of a lending relationship   I dont think  Uncle 
Buck needed to take further steps to verify the information provided.  This could have 
included asking Miss S for evidence of her income  and outgoings which Uncle  Buck could  
have gathered from her bank statement  or copies of any bills.
Ref: DRN02355533I have considered the information Uncle Buck was provided with when  it carried  out its credit 
checks. And there  isnt anything in this information it has given us that may have led Uncle 
Buck to conclude that it should  decline Miss Ss application for this loan. And there isnt 
anything contained  within the reports to have  given Uncle Buck  cause for concern (at the 
proportionate level it considered them, bearing in mind this was the first loan Miss S applied 
for with Uncle Buck) or to have prompted it to ask for more information  from Miss S. 
I know Miss S disagrees with this. She has provided information to show she did have other 
borrowing, but the report Uncle Buck relied on didnt  show  any other short-term loans were  
active. And the report didnt indicate any other short-term loans had been opened in the last 
three or six months. So, I dont think Uncle Buck was wrong to have provided this loan,  
based solely on the information  it gathered from the credit reference agency and the 
information Miss S gave  about her financial  situation. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Uncle  Buck did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I dont  think its decision  to lend to Miss S was un reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0235553