K820x#14The complaint
Mr D says Pendragon  Finance  and Insurance Services Limited (Pendragon) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  and a Guaranteed  Asset Protect (GAP) policy.  
What happened
Mr D took out the policies  with a hire purchase for a car in 2007. He paid a monthly amount 
for the PPI policy and the GAP policy was a single premium policy paid when he took out the 
finance for the car. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  these  kinds of sales on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Ds case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr D and Pendragon  agree that the policies were sold during a meeting.  During  that 
meeting, Pendragon shouldve taken reasonable steps to make Mr D aware  he had a choice 
about buying the policies.  Mr D says he wasnt made aware the policies were  optional. 
I dont know what was said about the PPI and GAP policies in any discussions Mr D had with 
Pendragon. But Pendragon has sent us a copy of the paperwork  Mr D completed at the time.  
I can see that there would  have  been  separate documents  to complete for each policy. Due 
to the time that has passed Pendragon no longer has a copy  of the GAP agreement  but in 
my experience its likely  to have made it clear the policy was optional.  On the agreement for 
the PPI it states  that the policy is not a requirement of the finance  agreement.  
So, I think its most likely Pendragon made Mr D aware he had a choice about  buying  the 
policies. And he chose to take them. 
Mr D says Pendragon  recommended the policies to him. Pendragon says it isnt sure 
whether it recommended  them  or not.  I dont think its relevant whether Pendragon 
recommended the policies  or not because I think they were right for Mr D  based on his 
circumstances. 
I say this because:
Mr D was eligible for each policy
There was nothing  to stop Mr D claiming the full benefit of both policies if he needed too 
- such as any known health issues or unusual employment arrangements. 
Mr D says he wouldve got three  months full sick pay benefits from his employer. The 
PPI wouldve  covered his loan repayments  for up to 12 months  if he was made 
Ref: DRN04331572redundant or if he was too unwell  to work. This is more than he wouldve received from 
his employer and it wouldve  allowed  him to use any employer benefits to cover  other  
everyday living  expenses.  The GAP  covered him for the whole term of the finance  
agreement and would have covered a claim of a maximum of £25,000  if the vehicle was 
written off due to an accident.  
Mr D says he had some savings and family could have helped out if he wasnt able to 
make his repayments. But by having  the policies he could  have used any saving he had 
to pay for other  costs. And whilst I dont doubt  that his family would have wanted to help, 
circumstances can change so I dont think this help could be guaranteed.   Overall, I 
think the policies  could have been  useful to him. 
The cost of each policy was shown on the loan agreement. So, I think  Mr D would have 
understood how much he would need to pay for it. And I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that Mr D couldnt  afford the monthly  payments.  And he could have cancelled 
the PPI at any time, without further  cost,  if his situation changed or he no longer wanted 
it. 
Mr D would not have received a refund of the GAP  premium if he cancelled  it after the 
first 14 days. I dont know if Pendragon explained the situation clearly  to Mr D. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest  Mr D thought hed repay  the loan early. So, I dont  
think this meant the policy  wasnt right for him  or that better information would have 
stopped him buying it. 
As well as making sure the policies were  right for Mr D, Pendragon should have also taken 
steps to give him clear  information about  the policy so he could decide if he wanted  it. I dont 
know what steps Pendragon took to do this and its possible some things werent explained as 
clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer  information wouldve changed Mr Ds 
decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think  both policies 
were suitable for him.  
Overall, I dont  think Mr D has lost out from anything Pendragon  might have done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0433157