K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
background
Mr and Mrs F were  contacted by Energy  Hypermarket, a company that supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following  a meeting, Mr and Mrs F agreed to enter  into a 
contract with Energy Hypermarket  for it to supply and install a solar panel system  costing 
about £8,850. To fund this Mr and Mrs F also agreed to enter into a 15 year fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs F made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA via their representative.  The 
representative said that Energy Hypermarket  had told Mr and Mrs F that the solar  panels 
would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set  by 
the feed-in-tariff  (FIT) income. But that hadnt  happened. Instead, the monthly loan 
repayments had been much higher  than the income.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits  of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented  to Mr and Mrs F. Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs F 
referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He felt the benefits of the solar  
panel system had been misrepresented. He recommended that Shawbrook calculate  the 
potential savings and income to Mr and Mrs F over the term of the loan. He said it should 
then restructure the loan so that they didnt pay any more than this over the 15 year term of 
the loan. He also recommended that Shawbrook pay Mr and Mrs F £100 to recognise  the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Shawbrook accepted our investigators  view. Mr and Mrs F, via their representative,  didnt. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F say that they were  cold-called  and during a sales meeting told that the solar  
panels would be entirely self-financing. Having carefully considered  the available evidence,  
like the investigator I think that Energy  Hypermarket did misrepresent  the benefits  of the 
solar panel  system. Shawbrook has accepted  the investigators view and as a result this 
decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there  had been no misrepresentation.  However,  here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from their home.  Rather, I think  the 
Ref: DRN08567382fair outcome here is to put Mr and Mrs F in a position where the panels  are self-funding over 
the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr and Mrs F to keep the panels, I am satisfied that 
they will likely benefit from lower electricity  bills and FIT payments  going forward (i.e. after 
the term of the loan has finished).
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  says that they were told that the loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT. So Ive considered whether any electricity savings should  be taken into 
account when  arriving at fair compensation.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F were  misled into thinking that the solar  panels would be self-
funding and so on that basis I need  to decide  fair compensation. When  thinking about  that 
question, I think  its fair to take account  of the electricity generated by the solar  panel units. 
On the one hand Mr and Mrs F have to pay their loan and for any electricity used in addition  
to that generated by the panels and on the other  they can off-set  those payments by the FIT 
payments and the savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. It would 
be unfair to ignore the electricity  generated and used by Mr and Mrs F when calculating fair 
compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology has been  shared with Mr 
and Mrs Fs representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr and Mrs Fs solar  panel system. 
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr and 
Mrs Fs solar panels it will use a number of assumptions. These include using a self-
consumption rate of 37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr and Mrs Fs 
solar panels  that they are  expected to use rather than buying  electricity from their energy 
provider. An ombudsman  who issued a previous final determination considered that a 50% 
self-consumption rate was a fair assumption  as this was the assumption  used  by 
Government. Following  further submissions, in a previous decision I was satisfied that a self-
consumption rate of 37% was reasonable.   
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has said that the methodology being used to make the panels 
self-funding is out of date. It has provided  a joint statement from two industry  experts to 
support this. In particular  the experts disagree  that a self-consumption rate of 37% should be 
used in every case and that a payment should  be made towards  covering ongoing 
maintenance and repair  costs.
Ill deal first with the self-consumption rate. Ive thought carefully about the points the 
representative has made as well as the expert  testimony provided. Ive taken into account 
that both experts  have  previously provided  reports to this service and have disagreed  on 
what they consider  to be a reasonable self-consumption rate. For example previously one 
expert has said 25% is reasonable while the other  has suggested that at the point of 
calculating redress a rate of 37-41%  was reasonable for a passive consumer but went on to 
say that using the Energy Trusts online calculator  which takes more account  of occupancy 
during the day a rate of 37% was reasonable.  
What is clear is that self-consumption is impacted  by the period of time someone is in their 
home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity their solar  panel system is generating. 
And so Im not persuaded that I should  use the Governments 50% rate or the higher end of 
Ref: DRN08567383the passive consumer. It is self-evident  that determining an exact figure over the period of 
the loan is difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation  and arrive at an outcome that 
is fair and reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account all the available  
evidence discussed  above and also takes into account changing consumer occupancy 
habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, as it has in 
this case, Im satisfied  that it is highly likely that Mr and Mrs F will continue to benefit from 
the system as a result of a reduction in their  electricity bills because  of the electricity 
generated by the panels and the FIT payments. 
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Shawbrook, including electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by Shawbrook provide a 
fair and reasonable basis for calculating  fair compensation.
I turn now to consider on-going maintenance and repair costs. The joint statement I referred 
to above suggests that the inverter will need to be replaced at least twice over the lifetime  of 
the panels, at a cost of around  £1,050  each  time.
 
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels  dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter  will need replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a current  cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer  could  have  some maintenance and repair  costs  over the lifetime of 
the solar panels.  The proposed approach to put things right for the consumer is to make the 
solar panels  self-funding over the original  term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid, 
as Ive already  outlined  above, Mr and Mrs F are highly likely to enjoy significant benefit  from 
the solar panel  system by way of savings and the FIT income going forward. In addition, Mr 
and Mrs F have  already  paid back the loan and will get back  a lump sum to cover their 
overpayments together  with interest. 
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Mr and Mrs F will be able to use their compensation 
payment to pay for a replacement inverter if necessary.
Because of the reasons  Ive given above Im not persuaded that the business should  make 
an award for maintenance and repairs costs.  
I am satisfied that there was sufficient  information available at the time that Mr and Mrs F 
first contacted Shawbrook  that means  that their claim should  have  been  upheld. The fact 
that this did not happen  undoubtedly caused  them  trouble  and upset and consequently Ill 
make an additional  award  of £100 to cover  this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
Ref: DRN08567384(a)allow Mr and Mrs F to keep the solar panels,
(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs F from the panels  over the 
15 year term of the loan and rework  it so they pay no more than this. Where possible, 
it should use Mr and Mrs Fs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,  and;
(d)pay Mr and Mrs F £100  for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs F how much itss taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs F a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can claim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN0856738