K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a life assurance policy in 1990 
as one of its branch staff wrongly told him it was a condition  of the mortgage. It didnt provide 
him with documentation about the policy or also offer him the option of taking out cover with 
a different supplier.
background
Nationwide rejected Mr Es complaint saying it had never made cover a condition  of its 
mortgages. Given Mr E had cancelled the policy in 2006, it said it no longer retained any 
paperwork about the sale or what  documentation  had been  provided via its agent  (a linked 
business). It paid him £250 in lieu of how it had handled his complaint.
Mr E did not agree  and said:
Theres no reference in his mortgage  application to him selecting life assurance
The Homeguard policy referred to was buildings and contents  insurance
The Mortage Offer  does not state that life cover was optional but simply says that a 
quotation will be provided
It appears as if three companies were involved in providing the policy and 
documentation should exist in relation to the changes that took place in the policy
An adjudicator at this service  did not believe this complaint should be upheld.
He firstly explained the relationship between the three quoted companies, and why 
Nationwide was now the business  which was responsible for the original advice. He also 
said hed not seen evidence to indicate that Nationwide (or its predecessor  linked company)  
had insisted on life cover but he was satisfied that such a recommendation would have been 
reasonable.
He also couldnt  say what information  had been  sent by Nationwide or the advisor business 
but felt it was likely key documents had been  provided.
Mr E did not agree  and said:
The advisor said they needed  to take out this policy; the fact that it cannot be 
corroborated doesnt mean it didnt happen
He objects to Nationwide trying to absolve itself of all responsibility and placing the 
problem with the insurer
The premiums were  paid to Nationwide so it had some  responsibility  for this aspect 
of the mortgage
They were never  sent paperwork  about  the policy; it they had been they would  have 
kept it on file along  with the mortgage  documents. This should have included letters 
about the various change in company names
The fact that they cancelled  the policy in 2006  does  not demonstrate that they had 
information about it; they just asked Nationwide to cancel  the direct debit
Whether the policy was suitable  or not, they did not ask for it or want  it
Ref: DRN09950602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I am satisfied that Nationwide and the adjudicator explained the relationship between the 
three companies and that there is nothing surprising or controversial about this. Nationwide  
has accepted  responsibility for the original  advice which appears to be correct.
Given this policy was surrendered over 12 years ago it is entirely understandable that 
Nationwide does not retain  more  information  about  it or what  documents may have been 
sent. The same would be true of the policy provider itself as businesses are only required to 
retain files for six years after the expiry  of a product, plan or policy. Indeed  under data 
protection guidance it is considered good practice not to retain things after then.
So it is impossible for me to fairly  or safely reach a conclusion  about what  documents Mr E 
was provided with at the outset or during the years the policy was in existence.  Equally, it is 
not possible for me to conclude that Nationwides advisor wrongly said this policy was a 
condition of the mortgage in the absence of any independent corroborating evidence.
I need to see sufficient evidence to fairly conclude that the business did something wrong in 
order to uphold a complaint. Although  I only need do so on the balance  of probabilities this 
still means I need to see enough persuasive evidence to safely say that it was more likely 
than not that the business was at fault. In this case I have not seen sufficient  evidence  to 
reach such a decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0995060