K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a number of 
packaged accounts, fee-paying bolt on feature store packs.
Mr F has also complained that Barclays didnt  remove the packs  from his account  when he 
asked for them  to be.
background
Mr Fs account  history is as follows:
Account opened  as a fee-free account   January 1984
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account   September 1998
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Plus  February  2004
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier Life account  November 2008
Account changed  to a fee-free Premier current account with fee-paying  Tech, Travel Plus 
and Home packs added  November 2015
Barclays agreed the Additions  Plus account  had been mis-sold,  and refunded Mr F the extra 
account fees hed been charged (compared to the cost of the Additions account) whilst he 
held the account. I will therefore not be looking into the sale of this account as Barclayss  
offer puts Mr F back in the position  as though the Additions Plus account had not been sold 
to him. 
Barclays also said that Mr F had complained too late about  the sale of the Premier life 
account and our adjudicator agreed  that Mr F had complained too late about it for us to 
consider the complaint. Although Mr F has provided  comments about this sale, I can see that 
he accepted the adjudicators assessment that we cant look into it  so I wont  be 
addressing the sale of that account here either.
Our adjudicators then assessed Mr Fs complaint about the sale of the Additions account,  
the changes made to Mr Fs account in November  2015 and that hed asked for the Packs  to 
be removed from his account. And they concluded  that Barclays had not acted unfairly or 
incorrectly so didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F disagreed and so asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And weve explained how we approach  
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive taken that into 
account when  considering  this complaint. 
Additions account
Ref: DRN04976992Ive started by considering whether Mr F was given a fair choice. Mr F says that he does not 
recall agreeing to the Additions  account  and therefore says that the account was upgraded 
without his consent. Whereas Barclays says that it didnt automatically upgraded Mr Fs 
account. Barclays has only been able to provide limited information about the sale, but given 
how long ago it took place, I think this is understandable.
I appreciate that Mr F insists he never  agreed  to it. But I cant  simply accept that the 
Additions account mustve  been mis-sold purely because Mr F doesnt remember  agreeing  
to it. Instead where  evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here,  I 
have to make my decision based  on what I think is most likely  to have happened  keeping  
in mind everything Ive seen and been  told by both parties. 
Although Mr F doesnt recall agreeing to the Additions account, the upgrade  happened over 
20 years  ago  so I think its understandable if Mr F cant  remember  much  from the time.  
But, having  considered the evidence that Barclays has been  able to provide, I think its more  
likely that Mr F agreed to it, but he just doesnt remember  doing  so. I say this because,  at the 
time the account  cost £5 per month and the main benefit it provided  was an automatic 
overdraft facility (although  its not clear what that amount was as it was so long ago).  And by 
having the account, the first £100 of the overdraft was interest free, with a preferential  
interest rate on balances  overdrawn by more than this amount. And, by having  the Additions  
account, Mr F would  avoid paying a £5 overdraft usage fee that was applied to fee-free 
accounts. 
Looking at Mr Fs account statements, prior to the sale he was regularly paying the £5 
monthly overdraft usage fee plus more than £1 per month in overdraft interest in most 
months. So looking at how Mr F operated his account, I think  its more  likely that he agreed 
to upgrade the account as he could  get the benefits  without it costing him any more than 
what he was already paying in overdraft charges and interest, rather than it being the case 
that Barclays upgraded the account without his permission.
Based on the evidence  that is available, Im not persuaded that Barclays recommended the 
Additions account to Mr F. This means it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But even 
if it had recommended he upgrade his account, based on the potential overdraft savings, I 
dont think this wouldve  necessarily been unreasonable in the circumstances.  
Barclays had to give Mr F important information about the account. And because Mr F has 
no recollection of agreeing to the account and Barclays  cant provide much information  from 
the time either, I accept its possible that Mr F might not have been given all the important 
information about the account at the time.  
However, Im not persuaded that Mr F wouldve been put off from agreeing  to the account  
had he been given more information about  it. I say this because  it came as a package,  so 
Mr F could  not pick and choose what it came with. And as I think its likely  he agreed to it for 
the overdraft benefits  alone, I doubt  that he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it had 
Barclays given him more information  about  the benefits  the other benefits such as 
cardholder protection,  purchase protection, will writing service, legal advice line and £5,000 
life assurance.  On the contrary,  Barclays has provided evidence to suggest that he 
registered for the will writing service  in June 2003, which indicates that Mr F was aware  that 
his account came with added  benefits.
Ref: DRN04976993I appreciate that the benefits  provided  with the account changed over time. And some 
benefits mayve later been added which Mr F may not have wanted.  But this doesnt mean  
that Barclays was wrong to have sold the Additions account to Mr F when it did. Therefore, 
taking everything into account, I dont think  the Additions account was mis-sold. 
Changes to the Premier  Life account
As explained by the adjudicator, Barclays decided to make changes  to the Premier Life 
account in 2015. This was a commercial  decision it was entitled to make, but in doing so, it 
had to provide  the affected  account  holders with notice of this and explain what  would 
happen to their account.
The Premier Life account came with a range of benefits, including  a number of insurance  
benefits. So Barclays took the decision to change the Premier  Life account to a fee-free 
Premier account but to add fee-paying Tech, Travel Plus and Home Packs to closely  match  
the existing benefits  which account holders could then opt out of should they no longer 
want those benefits.  
Barclays has provided us with a copy of a letter sent to Mr F in January 2015. This explained  
that his account  was changing to a Premier account,  but he will continue to receive similar 
benefits as before but under the Tech,  Travel  Plus and Home  Packs. Barclays then sent 
another letter on 21 August 2015  to confirm the changes that had happened and confirmed 
that the account cost had increased from £17.50  per month to £23 per month.
Mr F says that he didnt receive  these letters as he was often abroad.  But I cant see that 
Mr F had made arrangements with Barclays to be contacted via other methods. So, I cant 
say that Barclays have acted incorrectly or unfairly because Mr F wasnt  in the country to 
collect his mail.
I note that Mr F has also essentially said that hes unhappy that the changes  were made on 
an opt-out rather than opt-in  basis. But the changes made in 2015 essentially meant that 
the insurance products would no longer be provided  as part of the account,  but instead  
provided as bolt-on Packs, which  could  then be added or removed by the account holder as 
needed. And there was no longer a monthly fee for the account itself, but instead the 
account holder  would be charged for the individual Packs instead. This essentially meant 
account holders  could  pick and choose which benefits they paid for, rather than having to 
pay a monthly fee for the account as a whole and not having a choice which benefits it came 
with. And the letters sent to Mr F confirmed that he continued to be eligible for the premier 
banking service at the time. 
As such,  I dont think how Barclays  made the changes to the account,  or notified Mr F about  
them, was unreasonable in the circumstances.  
Request to remove  Packs not actioned
Mr F has said that he made a request to remove the fee-paying feature store packs from his 
account in 2017, but it wasnt actioned.  Barclays has accepted  that Mr F made  this request 
in 2017 but says that Mr F had failed  to pass its security checks  to confirm his identity. 
Because of this, I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays  couldnt  discuss  the account or 
take any instructions  to remove Packs  from the account, when it couldnt be sure that it was 
talking to Mr F at the time. 
Ref: DRN04976994I understand that as Mr F had failed to complete the security checks  over the phone, he was 
told to go in branch.  Although Mr F was abroad  at the time and I appreciate  that this mustve  
been very inconvenient for him, equally I think this was not an unreasonable  step to take 
given that he was unable to complete the security checks on the phone. Furthermore, I 
understand that when he tried to remove the Packs in 2017 a note was made on his file so 
that a backdated refund  could be considered for when he could  eventually  attend branch  
which in the circumstances seems reasonable.
However, based on Barclayss customer notes, when Mr F was eventually  able to attend 
branch to remove the Packs in 2018, it appears that he then changed his mind  and chose  to 
keep them on his account. Therefore, given that it was Mr F who chose  to keep the Packs on 
his account (as he was due to travel again  so wanted the cover afforded by them), I dont 
think its reasonable that Barclays should be required to also refund  what Mr F has paid for 
those Packs - as it looks  like he was relying on the cover they provided.
As such,  having  considered everything that Mr F has said and all the information that is 
available, I dont think the Additions account was mis-sold. And I dont think  Barclays has 
acted incorrectly because  of the changes it made to the Premier life account in 2015  or 
around Mr Fs request  to remove the feature store Packs from his account. 
I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require Barclays to refund Mr F the Additions  
account fees or the fees hes paid for the Travel Plus, Tech  and Home  Packs.  
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0497699