K822xComplaint
Ms H complains that in 2016 Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) settled a motor insurance  claim 
on the basis that she was 100% at fault and paid the third party claim in full without fully 
assessing her claim. She also says Aviva  then failed to advise her of this decision.
Background
Ms H was involved  in a road traffic  accident in July 2016. The driver from the car behind    
Ms H stopped at the scene and offered to be a witness for her. Ms H called the police, who 
attended the scene and spoke to all parties  present. As there  were  no injuries reported at 
that time,  they allowed  everyone to leave  once theyd exchanged details.
Ms H raised a claim  with Aviva who initially said they would hold the third party  completely 
responsible for the accident as they ran a red light and there was a witness  to verify this. 
However, by April 2017 Aviva had been unable to obtain a statement from the witness and 
therefore suggested to Ms H that the claim should be settled on a 50/50 basis. 
Ms H heard nothing further from Aviva, so she thought the matter had been settled on this 
basis. However, the third partys representative  indicated that they were  going to start legal 
proceedings. And, as Aviva had been  unable to contact the witness  and secure a statement, 
they decided it was best to settle  on the basis that Ms H was 100% at fault. 
Aviva didnt advise  Ms H of their decision and she only found out about the settlement in July 
2018, whilst  in the process of insuring her son. 
Ms H complained to Aviva about  the outcome of her claim and how they had handled it. She 
also complained  about the increase in premium she had received from another insurance 
company as a result  of the information  held about  her on the Claims Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database.
Aviva accepted that there had been  failings in their claims handling process. And that this 
had ultimately led to Ms H being  charged a higher premium.  So, they refunded  the cost of 
the additional premium charged by the other  insurer and paid Ms H an additional  £150  to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  shed experienced.
Ms H was unhappy with Avivas resolution and asked for the complaint to be considered  by 
our service.  Our investigator thought that Avivas decision  was fair, but Ms H disagreed and 
asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
To settle  the matter, Ms H would  like confirmation that her no claims discount (NCD) was 
unaffected by the claim, compensation  for the distress  caused to her, for Aviva to retrieve  
their outlay on the claim from the third party and to have how the incident  has been recorded  
on the CUE database changed to non-fault.  
My Findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  I realise  Ms H will be disappointed with this outcome 
and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Ref: DRN01034942Firstly, I need  to be clear that my role is not to decide who was at fault for the accident. 
Theres a term in Ms Hs policy that gives Aviva  the right to take over and handle any claim 
under it as they think appropriate. So, what Ive considered in this case  is whether Aviva 
handled Ms Hs claim in a fair and reasonable manner and what the implications are of how 
the claim has been recorded for Ms H.
Avivas records  show  that they tried to contact the witness by writing to them  in the days  
immediately following the accident, again in October  2016  and finally by sending  a claims 
investigator to the address the witness had provided in early 2017.  Based on this evidence I 
think Aviva  made a reasonable effort to contact  the witness in a timely manner before 
making their decision about  how to settle the claim.  
I also dont think Aviva had any choice but to settle  on a 100% at fault basis . I appreciate   
Ms H is adamant the third party jumped the lights. But without a witness statement 
confirming this it wasnt possible for Aviva to prove  this is what happened.  I know this will be 
frustrating for Ms H to hear but the third party  was looking to pursue the claim through the 
courts. And  as Ive said - I think it would have been difficult  for Aviva to prove  they were at 
fault in the absence of the witness statement. Although the witness had provided a brief 
summary of the accident verbally  to Aviva, which supported Ms Hs version of events, a 
signed, written statement  was required in case the matter should proceed  to court.
Aviva state  in their terms and conditions that they wont pursue a claim through  the legal 
system unless they have  a reasonable prospect of success, which they believed  was 
unlikely in this case. Ms H also commented that she didnt think  it would be worthwhile going 
to court,  as there were  two other  occupants in the third partys  car at the time of the accident,  
indicating she understood that it would be difficult to prove her version of events in court 
without her witness. So, I think Avivas  decision to settle on the basis  Ms H was 100% at 
fault for the accident was reasonable  in the circumstances.
The case  was settled  on a without prejudice  basis allowing Ms H the opportunity to pursue 
her case  through  the courts should she wish to personally fund this and try and recover any 
of her uninsured losses.
We know that Aviva didnt communicate  their revised decision to Ms H. And she thought that 
they had settled the claim on a 50/50  basis. So, I need to consider if its failure to let Ms H 
know it had decided to do this had an impact on Ms H financially or otherwise. 
Ms H first realised how the claim was settled in July 2018 when she was trying to get her son 
insured. She contacted Aviva  to complain and they agreed to refund the increase in premium  
she had paid to another  insurer and offered an additional £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Ms H had experienced as a result of their error. They also 
agreed to request the police report from the day of the accident, as it had never  previously 
been requested,  to see if it would have changed  the outcome of the claim. 
When the police report from the day of the accident  was received, it showed that there  were  
no statements recorded on the day as there were no reported injuries. As Ms H and the third 
party had exchanged details, there was no further action taken by the police. I am therefore 
satisfied with Avivas view that it wouldnt have made any difference to the outcome of the 
claim had this report been requested any earlier in the investigation.
I can see there have been several  shortcomings in how Aviva have handled this claim, 
including not requesting  the police report or communicating the outcome to Ms H. And I 
Ref: DRN01034943consider their main  error to be their lack of communication  with Ms H. I know  the situation 
has caused Ms H distress. However, Aviva  refunded  the cost of the additional premiums 
incurred and offered  her £150 as an apology for this. I consider this to be fair compensation 
in the circumstances.
Aviva have also confirmed that this claim never  affected Ms Hs NCD directly,  as it is 
protected. This meant Ms H still had 8+ years  NCD after the claim was settled. The claim did 
count as a fault (bonus disallowed)  claim against her protected NCD and on CUE, but this 
would also have been the case if Aviva  had settled 50/50. And  as Ive said  without the 
witness statement, I think Avivas decision to settle  on the basis Ms H was 100%  responsible  
was reasonable.  But, because Ms H didnt have a further accident within three  years, the 
claim no longer has any impact on her protected  NCD.
I do sympathise with Ms H and I realise  that this has been an extremely  trying  time for her. 
But, having  considered all the evidence  and arguments presented  in this case, I think Avivas  
offer of £150 compensation in recognition of their errors is a fair and reasonable outcome  
and I am not going to ask them to do anything further. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Aviva Insurance  Limited should pay 
£150 to Ms H if they havent done  so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0103494