K820x#14complaint
Mr N says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in January  2003.
Mr N says he was charged for a product he never  asked for and did not need. He thinks  PPI 
was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ns complaint and I will explain why.
I think Barclays made Mr N aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because  Barclays  has provided  a copy of the application form that Mr N would  
have seen in the meeting. PPI is presented as optional on this application  form. It says 
please tick the box above if you require payment protection. There  is then a tick given in 
the box and Mr N has signed the application indicating  to me that he wanted  to take the 
policy out. I think he could  have left the PPI section blank or not sign the form if he didnt 
want the insurance.
I think Barclays recommend the PPI to Mr N so it had to check if it was suitable for him. I 
think it was suitable  for Mr N.
I say this because  Mr N says he wasnt entitled  to sick pay with his employer. I can see the 
policy would have paid more than his minimum credit card repayments  for up to 12 months if 
he couldnt work, providing a useful benefit  at a difficult time. And he doesnt  appear to have 
had significant  other  means to make his credit card repayments if he couldnt work.  He was 
not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy  was competitively  priced  
and apparently affordable.
I cant be sure what Barclays  told Mr N about the costs of the policy  at the time of sale.  But 
even if he were given  clear information about  this, I dont think it would have changed his 
decision to buy it for the same reasons why I think the policy  was suitable. It was reasonably 
priced compared to similar policies available at the time. And Mr N could have cancelled the 
PPI if it did become unaffordable.
Its possible Barclays didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr N wouldve been affected by any of these based  on his circumstances at the time.
So I think it unlikely Mr N would have made a different decision if better  information  had 
been provided. On balance  I think  he would  still have taken out the policy. This means 
Barclays doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N. But Barclays has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because:  
Ref: DRN05449332Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr N any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0544933