K820x#14complaint
Mr K1 and Mr K2 complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is wrong to say 
theyd have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) if they make  an overpayment  to their 
mortgage account.
background
Mr K1 and Mr K2 have  a mortgage with Halifax. Their fixed interest  product ends on 30 April 
2019. Theyd like to make an overpayment  before  the product ends.  Mr K1 says Halifaxs 
website says it waives ERCs in the last three months of a product term. Despite this, Halifax  
says if they make an overpayment of more than 10% of the balance it will apply an ERC.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Halifaxs 
website said an ERC would be waived if a customer switched to a new product  during the 
last three  months  of a product term. She said there was nothing to suggest this would apply 
to an overpayment. 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 didnt  agree.  Mr K1 said Halifaxs website says it will waive the ERC if a 
product is in the last three months and the customer wants a product switch  which  is 
exactly what they want to do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 took out a fixed rate mortgage  product  in early 2017. The product ends on 
30 April 2019. The mortgage  offers  says an ERC  will apply if the loan is repaid, in part or in 
full, before 30 April 2019. The mortgage offer says there may be an opportunity to make an 
overpayment without  an ERC and refers to the mortgage booklet.
The mortgage booklet says customers can, as a concession, repay up to 10% of the balance  
each year without paying  an ERC. 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 would like to make an overpayment of more  than 10% without paying an 
ERC. Mr K1 says Halifaxs  website  and mortgage  booklet say it will allow  this. Ive explained 
why I dont agree below.
Mr K1 refers to a page in Halifaxs website headed time to switch  to a new mortgage deal?. 
This says existing customers could save money by switching to a new mortgage deal. It says 
customers on the variable  rate or whose deal is ending  should switch. It says Halifax  will 
waive early repayment  charges  on existing deals with three months  or less left to run. 
This page is providing information about product  switches. Theres  nothing  on this page to 
suggest that Halifax will waive the ERC  for customers  that make  overpayments.  
Mr K1 says that other pages on the website do suggest this as they refer to the concession  
for customers looking to switch products and overpayments on the same page.  The section 
Ref: DRN08302432of the website giving information about  early repayment charges refers to overpayments  and 
the concession  for overpayments  of up to the 10% limit  as youd expect. This section also 
tells customers there  are concessions for customers switching products or moving home. I 
dont think this suggests these concessions also apply to overpayments. Halifax  made it 
clear these concessions  dont apply to overpayments when Mr K1 contacted it.
Mr K1 says the mortgage booklet supports what he says. He drew a ring around a section in 
the booklet providing information for customers that sell their property and arent yet ready to 
buy another. I cant see that this applies here.  Mr K1 and Mr K2 havent said they intend to 
sell their property.  They  want to make  an overpayment. 
Ive considered what Mr K1 has said. But the mortgage offer says an ERC is payable during 
the product term. Mr K1 and Mr K2 agreed  to this when they accepted  the product. Halifax 
currently offers a concession to allow  overpayments up to the 10% limit without paying an 
ERC. And Mr K1 and Mr K2 can make further  overpayments without incurring an ERC  after 
the product ends  (unless they take out a new product with an ERC). 
I dont think Halifaxs website or mortgage  booklet  is misleading about whether concessions  
offered to customers that move home or switch products  apply to overpayments.  And Halifax 
gave Mr K1 correct information  when he contacted it. In the circumstances, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require Halifax to waive any ERC that applies if Mr K1 and Mr K2 
make an overpayment before 30 April 2019.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K1 and Mr K2 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0830243