K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance  Limited (British Gas) 
under his HomeCare policy.
background
Mr F has had a HomeCare policy with British Gas for a number of years.  In October 2018 
there was an issue with his cooker.  British Gas attended his home and capped the gas to 
allow for his new cooker to be fitted. It took a further  three visits for his new cooker to be 
fitted due to issues with the parts required to fit it and because  cupboards  and an extractor 
fan needed to be moved  due to changes in regulations. In total this left him without access  to 
a cooker for 10 days.
Also in October 2018 Mr F had an annual service  carried  out. During this British Gas 
identified an issue with his water heater flue. As a result it had to cap his hot water supply for 
safety reasons.  Due to age, the parts required were  obsolete. British Gas has said it offered 
to quote to replace the water heater which Mr F declined.  Mr F disagrees with this. He said 
he was left without  hot water for a number of weeks.
Unhappy with the service  hed been provided  Mr F complained to British Gas. He said that 
hed been paying for a service that hadnt  been  provided to him, namely the annual services  
that hadnt been carried out prior to 2018.  And because of this he wasnt aware of the 
changes to regulations and this had put him at risk. He was also frustrated with the number 
of visits that took place  in October and that British Gas still hadnt provided  him with 
information that hed asked for, including Gas Safety Certificates.  Overall  he felt this had had 
a negative impact on his health.
When he hadnt received a response from British Gas Mr F brought  his complaint to our 
service. He raised some additional points about  the service hed been provided by an Area 
Service Manager.
Whilst our service was looking into the complaint British Gas made an offer. It offered to 
refund £195 for the services Mr F shouldve had in 2015, 2016 and 2017. This was because 
it wasnt satisfied that it had sent him enough  reminders to contact it to arrange a service. It 
also offered to pay him £60 for any trouble  and upset caused.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She felt that the offer to refund 
£195 was fair. But felt that British Gas should  pay Mr F £455  for the trouble and upset  
caused and refund his premiums for his Gas Appliance  Cover  for his fire as this had been 
disconnected by it back in 2013.
British Gas agreed to refund the £195,  refund the premiums  Mr F had paid for his Gas 
Appliance Cover for his fire, totalling over £650,  but felt £310 reflected the trouble and upset 
caused.
Mr F didnt.  In summary  he said he should  be refunded all the premiums hed paid and an 
increased offer for trouble and upset. He asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
When I initially reviewed the case I was minded to ask British  Gas to add 8% simple interest 
to the refund  of Mr Fs Gas Appliance Cover for his fire. I thought that the refund of £195  and 
£310 for the trouble and upset caused  was fair in this case.
Ref: DRN04701282Both parties  were notified of my intention.  British  Gas replied  to say it accepted what  I was 
proposing.
Mr F accepted that 8% should  be added to the refund  of his Gas Appliance  Cover  for his fire. 
He didnt agree that the £310 reflected the trouble and upset this episode  had caused  him. 
He also thought that British Gas should  refund him all the premiums  hed paid for the last 
three years, not just the £195  to cover the cost of the three services.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill be asking British Gas to take further steps  to resolve  this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered whether Mr F should be refunded all the premiums hes paid. Its not 
disputed that he has paid British Gas a number of premiums for a significant  period of time. 
Mr F has said that as it hasnt carried out an annual service in line with the policy he has, it 
hasnt provided  him with the service he has been paying for. He therefore thinks  that he 
should be refunded his premiums. 
However, I dont think this is the case. I can understand  Mr Fs frustrations that his 
appliances havent been serviced regularly, but I dont  think  this means he should have all 
his premiums refunded.
This is because the cover  that Mr F had with British Gas covered him for more  than the 
annual services. For example he was covered  for accidental damage  to his kitchen 
appliances and repairs to his mains electrical system and wiring on his property. And 
although Mr F hadnt needed  to claim for these  examples over the three  years, he had peace  
of mind that the cover was in place if he needed  it.  
British Gas has explained that it writes to each  of its HomeCare customers, where they 
qualify, to contact  it to arrange an annual  service. It has said that it would usually write three  
times during the year. Its seen from its records that it wrote to Mr F three  times  in 2014. And 
as it didnt hear from him no annual service was arranged. In 2015 it has said it has no 
record of writing to Mr F at all and only once in 2016  and 2017.  
Mr F thinks British Gas shouldve notified  him in other ways, not just by letter. The role of our 
service is to resolve individual complaints; it is beyond our remit to ask a business to change  
its process. So whilst I can understand why he thinks that, I cant ask British Gas to change 
how it notifies its customers.
Because it thinks it shouldve done  more to contact  Mr F it has offered to refund three  years  
worth of annual servicing, totalling £195.  British  Gas has accepted  that its service has fallen 
short when making Mr F aware  of arranging an annual service. And because of this it has 
offered to refund the cost of three years worth of servicing. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, and for the reasons Ive explained above  I think  this is fair. 
Mr F thinks British Gas shouldve made  him aware  of any changes in regulation. He thinks 
this wouldve  stopped the delay in installing his new cooker. I accept it would  have been  
Ref: DRN04701283frustrating when British  Gas told him that his extractor fan and cupboards  had to be moved 
due to changes  in regulations. And Ive taken this into account  when considering  the trouble 
and upset Mr F has gone through.
Its not in question that the service British  Gas has provided Mr F has fallen short  of his and 
its own expectations. It took a number of visits to fit his new cooker, leaving him without a 
cooker for 10 days and the Area Service Manager wasnt  able to help when  he visited. And it 
should have done more  to notify him of his annual  services.  Mr F has also told us that this 
has had a negative  impact on his health  and the potential risk posed to him.
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im of the view that British  Gas should pay Mr F £310 for 
the trouble and upset this has caused  him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, British Gas 
Insurance Limited, should:
(a)pay Mr F £195 for the three  years  worth of servicing he didnt receive,
(b)refund  any premiums Mr F has paid for his Gas Appliance Cover  for his fire from 
when it was disconnected in 2013. It should  also add 8% simple interest* from the 
date the premiums were  paid to the date of settlement, and;
(c)pay Mr F £310 for the trouble and upset caused.
British Gas Insurance Limited should do this within 28 days  of us telling them Mr Fs 
accepted my final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this it should add interest 
to the compensation at 8% simple* per year from the date of my decision until the date it 
makes payment
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Michael Fisher
Ombudsman
*If British Gas Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take of income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr M how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN0470128