K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains about the way Metro Bank PLC dealt with its application  for 
a secured loan.  C is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr M. He asks that Metro 
Bank compensates C for its costs, including  legal fees of about  £18,000, plus time spent and 
lost business which he estimates at about £75,000.
background
In May 2018  C applied  to Metro Bank for two loans to be secured on five buy to let 
properties. Mr M says legal work took months  to complete. Mr M says when C asked to draw 
down the loan in early  2019 Metro Bank asked for further information.  
Mr M says he provided what Metro Bank asked for but it didnt respond when he tried to 
contact it. In February Metro Bank told him the loan offer had expired. It said he shouldnt re-
apply as it was no longer  offering buy to let finance. 
Metro Bank  said C and its solicitors didnt  provide  information within required timeframes.  It 
says it extended  the deadline but its solicitors were still waiting for information when the new 
deadline expired. It declined  to extend again. Metro Bank offered to refund the £7,500 
arrangement fee as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said there was 
a requirement for the legal work and the first draw down to be completed within 60 days and 
this was extended more than once.  Metro Bank didnt  have to extend it again. The evidence 
didnt show that Metro Bank was responsible for the delays. 
C didnt agree. In summary, Mr M said the time taken to complete the legal work  was due to 
Metro Bank  asking for more information. He said it was obvious Metro  Bank  withdrew the 
loan offer because  the regulator had found accounting errors with its buy to let loans,  not 
due to delays  with the legal work.  Mr M said Metro  Bank hadnt  told him about  its deadlines  
and had assured  him there  was no pressure to draw  down.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what was agreed?
In May 2018  Metro  Bank set out outline terms on which it would offer two commercial loans 
to C. It issued facility letters on 10 July 2018, which were signed on behalf  of C a few days 
later. 
The loans were  conditional on C providing  required documents to Metro  Bank  and satisfying 
the conditions  precedent  set out in the facility letters within  60 days  of the date of the facility 
letters  that is, by mid September  2018.
Ref: DRN07400682The facility  letters say the first drawdown  was to be made within  two months of the facility  
letter (again,  by mid September  2018) and the last draw within six months  of the first 
drawdown. The loans  were to be secured by a debenture over Cs assets, legal charges on 
five buy to let properties  and personal guarantees from two directors.
The facility  letters said the finance would allow C to use equity in its existing  properties  to 
expand its property portfolio. It was a condition that C provide evidence  to Metro Bank that a 
property purchase was to be made or satisfactory invoice for works.
completion of the legal process
Both Metro  Bank and Mr M provided  copies  of correspondence between their solicitors. 
While the legal work took time, the available evidence doesnt  suggest to me that any delays 
were due to Metro Bank or its solicitors.
Mr M says Metro  Banks solicitor raised additional  questions after receiving documents and 
information. But its not unusual for solicitors to have  further  queries  during a transaction of 
this type. Metro Bank responded in early December 2018 to Mr Ms concerns about the legal 
process: it said its solicitors were carrying out the work it required for the type of transaction. 
It paid £250 as an apology for the upset  and said it would  look at ways  to make future 
transactions smoother.
The available evidence suggests  Metro Banks  solicitor didnt receive all of the required 
items until the end of November 2018. Its draft certificate of title in mid October showed 
missing items. And it sent an email to Cs solicitor in mid November 2018 listing the items it 
was waiting for from C and its solicitors.  This included documents listed  as required in the 
facility letter,  as well as documents  related to Metro Bank taking security over the buy to let 
properties. 
The outline  terms  and the facility letters set out the deadlines for the conditions precedent 
and first drawdown to be completed.  So I think C was made  aware of this. Its clear from the 
evidence that the deadlines  werent  met. And I dont think this was due to errors by Metro  
Bank. 
what happened after the deadlines were  extended?
Metro Bank  extended  its deadlines, although  the terms of the extension  arent  documented. 
Metro Bank  says the last extension was to early January 2019. The legal work was 
completed in early December 2018. 
Mr M told Metro  Bank hed like to use about £350,000 to repay  existing debt. While Mr M 
says Metro Bank had known about  this for months,  the earliest I could see that hed said this 
was in an email on 27 November 2018. This use of funds was different from the use 
originally agreed  that C would use funds to expand its property portfolio. Mr M asked if this 
needed to go through  solicitors or could he provide redemption  statements and associated  
payments. Metro Bank said it would check internally. 
In December 2018 Mr M said C was ready to draw down the first £400,000. This was 
primarily to repay existing debt. Metro  Bank  said its solicitors were concluding paperwork 
and it would then be able to confirm the completion date. On 20 December  2018  Cs solicitor 
said C would  like to complete on 4 January 2019.
Ref: DRN07400683In early January  2019 Metro Bank asked C for updated information as it needed  to extend its 
deadline for lending. 
There continued to be correspondence between the solicitors about the information and 
documents needed for completion:  this included redemption statements from the existing 
lender and a list of properties being  released  from its security.  It appears from the solicitors 
correspondence that, once this information  was received, Metro Bank would issue  a new 
facility letter  reflecting the new purpose  of the loan. 
Metro Bank  didnt agree to extend  the deadline for the first drawdown beyond  early January 
2019 and the borrowing didnt go ahead.
did Metro Bank made errors?
I dont think Metro Bank was responsible for the time taken  for the legal work to be 
completed. I dont think it was responsible  for the initial deadlines being missed.
Metro Bank  didnt have  to extend the 60 day deadline for the legal work to be completed.  As 
it did agree  an extension,  it should have been clearer  about the new deadline. 
Metro Bank  didnt have  to offer finance for a different purpose (such as refinancing  existing 
debt). And, if it did agree, it was entitled  to ask for its usual process to be followed (including 
a new facility letter, asking for redemption statements, and that solicitors would manage the 
payments and release security). However, when Mr M first said he wanted  to use the loan 
proceeds to repay existing debt, I think Metro Bank should have been clearer  about what  this 
would require.
Some discussion and legal work continued  into January and February, after the deadline for 
the first drawdown had passed. I can understand Mr Ms frustration that the deadline wasnt 
extended, and he didnt know this until February. But I think  Metro  Bank  was considering  
whether to extend the deadline: the work related to the new facility and use of the loan 
proceeds would have been  relevant to this. 
While I think Metro Bank should have been clearer about its process and deadlines  from 
December 2018,  I dont think events would have  been substantially  different if it had been. 
Theres nothing to suggest C was in a position to drawdown the loan for its intended purpose 
 buying property  within the extended deadline.  And I cant  be sure that the legal work and 
Metro Banks internal  approvals required for a refinancing loan would have been  in place on 
time, especially given  the holiday period and that the redemption  statements were provided 
by a third party.  
Mr M says Metro  Bank  decided  not to lend to C due to its own internal problems. But it 
remains the case that Cs loans didnt complete within the deadlines  in the facility letters.  
Metro Bank  was entitled to decide  whether or not to extend the deadlines  or lend to C for a 
different purpose. 
When C signed the facility letters it agreed  to pay Metro Banks legal costs. C was always 
responsible for its own legal costs. I dont think, in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable 
to require Metro  Bank  to pay compensation for Cs costs.
Metro Bank  refunded its arrangement fee of about  £7,500. I think this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Metro Bank to pay 
Ref: DRN07400684further compensation for the time Cs directors spent  on this matter or for Cs lost business 
opportunities.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0740068