K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc set up his business account  incorrectly.  He also 
complains that it wrongly blocked and then closed  his account. Hed like an explanation and 
compensation.
background 
Mr K opened  a business account and credit  card account with HSBC in late 2018. He says 
the account was wrongly set up under his name only and without  his trading name. This 
meant he couldnt cash cheques and caused  damage to his reputation.  
In January 2019 HSBC blocked  Mr Ks accounts.  In February  2019  HSBC gave notice to 
close his accounts.  Mr K says this caused significant difficulties for his business. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He said:
HSBC was entitled under the terms and conditions of the account to restrict it and, after 
giving the required  notice, to close it. 
Mr K had difficulty paying in cheques as the account didnt include his trading name. 
HSBC accepts it might not have  told Mr K that hed need to include his trading name 
when he opened  the account. Our investigator  said Mr K hadnt provided evidence  that 
this had a direct  effect on his business. HSBC  offered £75 compensation. Our 
investigator said this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr K didnt agree, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr K opened  a sole trader business  account  and commercial card account with HSBC in 
October 2018. HSBC  agreed an overdraft facility.
HSBC wrote to Mr K at the end of October 2018 saying it had returned a payment that would 
have taken his account over the overdraft limit. It wrote to Mr K in early November saying 
that his business account was close to the overdraft limit and no credits had been received. 
It asked him to make a payment or get in touch. HSBC wrote again to Mr K at the end of 
November as he hadnt made  a payment or contacted it. HSBC wrote  to Mr K again in 
December about  a payment returned unpaid due to lack of funds in the account.
In late December 2018 Mr K tried to pay a cheque into his account which  HSBC  returned 
unpaid due to a discrepancy  in the way the cheque was written.
Ref: DRN06306562In January 2019 HSBC blocked  Mr Ks accounts.  It told him the block would be in place 
while it reviewed the accounts. It wrote  to Mr K in February 2019 giving notice to close  his 
accounts. It said the overdraft facility  was withdrawn. And it said Mr K would immediately 
need to pay any debit balance when the accounts closed.
did HSBC make an error?
HSBC says Mr K applied for the account in his own name. He didnt include his trading 
name. It accepts though  that it might  not have told Mr K that he needed to include his trading 
name when  he opened  the account. It offered £75 compensation for the inconvenience this 
caused.
While Mr K says this caused disruption to his business, he hasnt provided evidence of this 
or of any loss. So I dont  think  its reasonable to require  HSBC to pay further compensation.
The terms and conditions  of the account say that HSBC can restrict use of the account. The 
terms also say it can close the account by giving  notice. HSBC gave the required notice. 
HSBC didnt explain why it decided to close Mr Ks account and I understand Mr Ks 
frustration about  this. But I dont think its reasonable for me to require that HSBC does so 
now. As HSBC didnt make an error, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay 
compensation. 
Mr K used the overdraft  facility and the commercial  card account and owed money to HSBC 
when the accounts were  closed. Mr K says hes unable to make payments into the accounts. 
That might be because  the accounts have  been closed. Mr K still owes a debt to HSBC. So 
Id urge him to contact HSBC about arranging repayment.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £75 to Mr K, as 
its agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0630656