K820x#14Complaint
Miss M has complained about two protection policies she was sold by Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited. She feels Countrywide  failed to include an addition  to her borrowing 
amount and so the level of the life protection she was sold was inadequate.
Background
In 2011 Miss M was taking out a mortgage. She was a fist time buyer at the time and was 
single with no dependants and was employed. The documentation from the time of the sale 
states she had no protection in place for life or critical illness.
She was sold a personal protection  plan which provided her with income protection  and a 
mortgage protection plan which provided  her with life cover  for the term and level of her 
mortgage, as well as income protection to specifically  cover her mortgage  payments in the 
event she became ill.
When Miss M initially raised her complaint,  she thought she had been  sold PPI. Upon being  
told she had no PPI she complained about the protection policies. When  Countrywide 
addressed her complaint it initially gave her the wrong information and so Miss M then 
complained about the level of protection under the policies and the term.
Shes also said that during the process of setting  up the mortgage  she had added  the 
arrangement fee (£499)  and the account management fee (£245) to her borrowing. But the 
level of protection  of her life policy only covered the additional amount of the arrangement 
fee. She was therefore unhappy and concerned  with the shortfall in her life protection.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. She clarified  exactly  what protection the policies provided. She found Miss M was 
sold the following:
A personal protection  policy which provided income protection  over the term of 10 
years.
A mortgage protection policy which provided life cover for £64,499 over the term of 
25 years,  as well as mortgage income protection over the same  term.
Having looked  at Miss Ms circumstances and her needs and objectives  at the time of the 
sale the investigator felt the policies were suitable. She also reasoned that while  Miss M was 
single and had no dependants,  the point of sale documentation  had noted  that she wanted 
life protection  so she could leave her property  mortgage free to her mother  in the event of 
her death.  So, in light of this, she saw no reason why the life cover wasnt  of use to Miss M.
When the investigator looked into the issue of the missing amount of £245,  she couldnt see 
that Miss M had informed  Countrywide that she wanted this amount added  to the loan and 
so Countrywide wasnt  to know that the level of protection had to be increased slightly.  So 
while she acknowledged  there was a small shortfall  in the level of protection Miss M had, 
she didnt feel this was down to anything Countrywide had done  wrong.
Miss M didnt agree with the assessment.  While she couldnt remember  exactly when she 
had added the £245 to the loan amount she felt she must have told the adviser of this. She 
also was of the view that the time she had taken to make the complaint  meant  £245  should 
be refunded for her as well as for the anxiety caused  by not being covered fully.
Ref: DRN07003312The investigator considered her comments but wasnt  persuaded to change her outcome. So 
as no agreement could  be reached, the complaint has been  passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly, I know  that when  Miss M initially complained to Countrywide, she received a lot of 
incorrect information about her policies and the actual protection she had taken out. This is 
poor on the part of Countrywide and has inevitably caused Miss M a certain amount of 
confusion and anxiety  regarding her protection policies. However, given all I have seen in 
the process of this complaint I am satisfied that the policies detailed above are what  Miss M 
ended up taking out. 
I suspect part of the confusion on Miss Ms part comes from the fact she met with 
Countrywide twice in 2011.  First in September where the intended loan amount was £72,000 
for 35 years and Miss M received documents quoting this amount and illustrating what  her 
payments would be for the protection based on these  values.
Miss M then met with Countrywide  again  in October  where the amount to be borrowed and 
term was amended. This changed to £68,000 over 25 years.
I am also satisfied these policies were  suitable for her in light of her documented needs and 
what she could afford.
I can see that the fact find completed  at the time of the sale marked life cover  and critical 
illness protection as a priority for Miss M. So, in light of this, and given she had nothing else 
in place I can see why she was sold these policies. Its also important to note that while 
Miss M didnt have any dependants, she did clearly mark in the fact find that she wanted to 
leave her property mortgage  free to her mother if she passed away. So, therefore I cant say 
she didnt want the cover these polices provided.
The policies protected Miss Ms life and also her mortgage in the event she became  ill and 
couldnt work and therefore keep up her mortgage  payments. The personal protection policy  
was set up over a term of 10 years. It was initially  set up for a term which  would take Miss M 
to retirement, however  there is a note on the documentation completed at the time of the 
sale that stated  Miss M wanted to keep costs  down. Therefore, a term of 10 years was 
decided. So it would  seem that Miss M dictated the term for this particular policy and 
therefore she knew what she was taking out, as they were  set up in the way she wanted.
The mortgage protection policy was in place to protect  the mortgage borrowing  if Miss M 
died or suffered an illness where she wasnt able to work so it was only right this policy was 
set up for the term of the mortgage.
Turning now to the potential shortfall  in protection due to the account  management  fee not 
being added.
Ref: DRN07003313The amended illustration dated  6 October  2011  clearly mentioned the level of protection for 
the life cover was £68,449. The key facts document that accompanied this illustration also 
states that an addition of £499 had been added to the loan amount for fees.
This document also set out what  fees Miss M had to pay  the arrangement fee of £499 that 
was included in the protection amount was mentioned  here and it was also confirmed here 
that Miss M had asked  for this to be added to the mortgage.
The mortgage account fee of £245  is also mentioned in this document  as having to be paid. 
It also says that this can be added to the mortgage and it then sets out what level this would 
take the borrowing to if Miss M chose this. It also says that if Miss M wanted to do that, she 
had to ask for another illustration to show the effect  of that on her monthly premiums.
Apart from these documents I have seen nothing  else from either  party that confirms Miss M 
wanted to add the £245 to her borrowing  or that she asked  Countrywide to do this. 
The only other mention  of the £245 is in the final purchase statement dated 30 January 2012 
where it states what the net mortgage  advance was to be after the lender deducted  £499  for 
the product fee and £245 for the mortgage account fee.
While I appreciate this infers that the £245 was added to the loan, because Ive seen no 
other confirmation, I cant be certain  that Miss M told Countrywide of this fact so her life 
protection level could be increase slightly. This was ultimately her responsibility to tell 
Countrywide, but I have  been provided  with nothing that convinces me she did this.
Miss M cant remember exactly when she told Countrywide to add the extra amount to her 
life protection  but is certain  she did and has requested that we find this out. But this is not 
something we would do as a Service. It is for Miss M to prove her complaint.  All I can look at 
is whether Countrywide  did anything wrong - so in this case was it the fault of Countrywide 
that the £245 wasnt added to the protection  amount. And from what  I have seen I dont think 
it was. I have seen  nothing to allow me to safely conclude that Miss M told Countrywide this 
was what she had wanted and realistically that is the only way Countryside would know  to 
amend the protection  levels.
I therefore dont  think Countrywide failed to carry out any instructions because  I cant  see 
Miss M told Countrywide to add the extra £245 to her protection amount.
Ref: DRN07003314My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0700331