K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. 
Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
The PPI was sold at the same  time as Miss M completed a credit card application  in branch 
in 2002.
The policy cost £0.79 per £100  that Miss M owed on her credit  card.  It protected her if she 
couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or if she lost her job. In the event  of a 
successful claim  it would have paid out 10% of the outstanding balance  on Miss Ms credit 
card for up to 12 months.  The policy also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss M feels very strongly about  her complaint. Miss M says she was told she had to have 
PPI in order to get the credit card.
In order for me to uphold Miss Ms complaint on this point,  Id have to find that its likely  she 
wasnt given a fair choice  about PPI. 
Barclays has provided a copy of Miss Ms credit card application form from 2002. Miss M 
had to actively tick to select PPI. She had a choice to select  yes or no. So while I know  
that Miss M feels  very strongly that she was told she had to have the PPI, the application 
form does show she had a choice about  taking  PPI. 
Based on the evidence,  I think Barclays  made  it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that she chose to take it out.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss M. So it had to check  the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For 
example, she was eligible for the cover, wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
I appreciate Miss M has told us she a good level of sick pay from her employer if she was 
unable to work because of an accident  or sickness. At the time, Miss M had been with her 
employer for around three and a half years. She says she would have received between 
three to six months pay if she was unable to work because  of an accident  or sickness. 
Ref: DRN04708602In the event of a successful claim because of an accident or sickness, or if Miss M lost her 
job,  the PPI would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on her credit  card for up to 12 
months. And it would  have paid out over and above  any sick pay Miss M received. So those  
benefits could  have been used for other essential  outgoings. The PPI could have been a 
useful benefit  at whats likely to have been  a difficult time if Miss M was unable to work, and 
particularly for a lengthy period. 
While I appreciate that Miss M had been with her employer for over three years, she 
wouldnt have received much in redundancy. The PPI would have  paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance on her credit  card for up to 12 months if Miss M lost her job.
Miss M also told us she didnt have any savings  or other insurance policies at the time that 
she could have used  to help meet her repayments.  I appreciate  that Miss M says her partner 
and family  could have  helped  if needed. But their own financial circumstances could have 
changed and they might not have been  able to help when needed.  So this offer of help could 
not be guaranteed.
Miss M says she had very little outgoings  at the time so could have met her repayments. But 
insurance is there to protect against the unforeseen. Having the insurance provided the 
security that Miss M could have her card repayments met, if she was unable  to work or lost 
her job. 
All things  considered, I think Miss M would  have found the PPI useful and I cant  fairly say 
the advisers recommendation was unsuitable  or unreasonable.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
I would like to assure  Miss M that I have taken  into account all the information she has 
provided and have carefully  considered  her testimony, complaint points and response to our 
adjudicators findings.  But for the reasons given above, these  points dont change  my 
decision.
Overall, based on the available  information  I have regarding the sale, the PPI policy,  
Miss Ms circumstances and testimony about  the sale,  I dont  think  this PPI policy  was     
mis-sold.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Miss M.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because  in 2017, following 
a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about PPI. 
Ref: DRN04708603The FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms,  that are lenders, should assess a 
complaint to establish whether failure  to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how 
businesses should  determine the appropriate  compensation  (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Barclays, in light of the FCAs rules and guidance,  looked at Miss Ms PPI policy.  Barclays 
said the level of commission  and profit share  it received did create an unfair  relationship. So 
to put things right it offered to refund  the extra Miss M paid each month for the time the 
commission and profit share it received  was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Its offer also 
includes 8% per year simple interest to compensate Miss M for any time she was out of 
pocket.
Miss M says because she was unaware  of the high level of commission  Barclays received  at 
the point of sale, so she was unable  to make an informed decision about  the PPI. Miss M 
considers that if one part of her complaint  the unfair level of commission   has been 
upheld, then the entire complaint should be. Miss M feels the PPI was mis-sold  due to the 
lack of information she got at the time.
But in this case, Barclays has made  Miss M an offer of compensation, in relation to the level 
of commission it received, that is in line with the methods set out by the FCA.
So Barclays  has done what  the rules it must follow tell it to do.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Miss Ms particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Barclays should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling Barclays to do anything more.
  
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Miss M any extra interest  
she paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Miss M the difference 
between what Miss M owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit  
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should  also pay Miss M 
8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
Ref: DRN04708604I also note Barclays have  offered Miss M an additional amount of £50 for the trouble she had 
contacting Barclays,  and for some of the confusing information it provided  her. Having 
looked at this I think it is a fair amount in the circumstances and I dont award any additional 
amount of compensation. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand this has already been 
paid, so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt  need  to do anything further.
Barclays Bank UK PLCs  additional offer of £50 as compensation for the trouble Miss M had 
in contacting Barclays Bank UK PLC, and for some of the confusing  information it provided is 
fair. It is for Miss M to decide whether she wants to accept this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before1 May 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0470860