K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1994 Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with HSBC  and at the same time they took out 
PPI to cover their income and protect  their mortgage  payments in the event they couldnt 
work through  accident, sickness or if they lost their jobs.
The policy cost £14.85 a month and it provided  a benefit of £250  per month to approximately  
match Mr and Mrs Rs monthly mortgage  payment.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
In June 2002 Mr and Mrs R extended  their policy to provide £300 per month benefit at a cost 
of £17.83 per month and changed  it to cover Mr R only.  The mortgage and this second PPI 
policy ended in June  2007.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Rs complaint didnt  think  HSBC explained the 
terms and conditions of the first PPI policy clearly to Mr and Mrs R when they bought  the 
policy in 1994.  And she didnt  think Mr and Mrs R wouldve bought the policy if it had. The 
adjudicator also thought  the PPI extension in June 2002 was not a mis-sale. 
HSBC disagrees that the first PPI in 1994 was mis-sold, so Mr and Mrs Rs complaint has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Neither HSBC or Mr and Mrs R can remember if this was an advised sale,  but Ill assume 
that it was as it doesnt affect the decision Ive reached. So HSBC not only had to provide  Mr 
and Mrs R with enough information about the policy so they could  make  an informed 
decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable  for them  based  on 
their needs  and circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of 
the case.
the October 1994 sale
There is limited  evidence  available  from the time of the sale,  around 25 years ago. So, 
I must carefully weigh up what is available  to me when reaching my decision.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about  the 
1994 sale. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN06466022HSBC had a duty to give Mr and Mrs R enough clear  information about the PPI so they 
could make an informed  decision  about whether they wanted it. From what  Ive seen, I dont  
think HSBC did this. And also from what Ive seen,  on balance,  I think if HSBC  had given Mr 
and Mrs R the clear information they needed  they wouldnt have bought the policy.
I say this because  the policy Mr and Mrs R were sold contained what  I think  are onerous 
conditions for making a successful unemployment  claim  if a person was self employed. For 
example, the terms required the self employed person to notify  the Inland Revenue  they had 
stopped trading and have filed closing accounts before a claim could  be made. 
Mr and Mrs R say they were both self employed when they were sold the policy. 
So I think its more likely  than not that it would have  mattered  to them that they could only 
have claimed for unemployment under the onerous  terms Ive described. 
I havent seen  anything to show HSBC did enough to make  the terms for self employment 
claims clear  to Mr and Mrs R. If it had done, and based on the information  Ive got, I think its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs R wouldve gone  ahead with the policy. 
So I think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of what HSBC  has done  wrong  in the 1994  
sale and so it should put things right as I describe below.
For completeness, I note that Mr R made a claim on the policy in 2000, but that doesnt 
change my view of what I think  they would have expected from the policy  in 1994 if the terms 
of the policy  had been highlighted  to them.
the June 2002 sale
When the policy was extended in June  2002  and changed to cover  Mr R only,  Ive decided  
the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think HSBC had made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have  to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because they were requesting  an extension and 
change to an existing  policy,  the one they bought in 1994. And although they say 
they didnt know  they had been given it in 1994,  I have no evidence that it was 
compulsory at any time and they were clearly aware they had it in 2002, having  made 
a claim on it in 2000.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the PPI cover,  the terms for self employment  cover were not onerous in my view, 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN06466023Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI from June  2002  to 
when the policy  finished.
putting things right
HSBC should  put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI 
from October 1994 to June 2002.  
HSBC should,  for that period:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy in that period, HSBC can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0646602