K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Arrow  Financial  Services  UK Limited. He is unhappy about the 
way it dealt with a proposed transfer  out of his employers defined benefit pension  scheme.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I concluded that although there have been failures  in the service provided here 
the recommendation that would have  been  made was to retain the benefits  in the defined 
benefit scheme. So the offer of £250  for trouble and upset was fair.
Arrow accepted the provisional decision but Mr B didnt. He questioned some of the findings  
and pointed out that colleagues who left the DB scheme had made substantial gains before 
the recent market falls caused by impact  of the COVID-19  pandemic.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr B has said in response to the provisional decision but it hasnt 
caused me to change  my view. Ive set out the regulators  guidance  on transfers like this. 
Transferring out of a DB scheme  like this one is not suitable for many consumers. That 
presumption is the starting point  for any advice.
The report  prepared for Mr B said that future  growth of 6.5 per cent per year would be 
required just to match the scheme benefits. I explained that to achieve that return  risk would 
have to be taken,  including a predominantly equity based investment strategy. I pointed  to 
the recent FTSE performance  to illustrate  the potential volatility which would be associated  
with that strategy.
Mr B uses  a simple illustration based on needing  £400,000 to provide an income  of £20,000  
per year in retirement between ages 60 to 80 years. He says that his forecast pension is 
£20,000. But I think that illustration does over simplify  the situation.  The life expectancy  
assumptions used in the report  that was prepared for him suggested  a life expectancy 
significantly beyond 80 years. The current scheme  also provides potential benefits  for a 
spouse and children. And no account  is being taken of any indexation on the current 
pension.
I do understand Mr Bs frustration. He clearly should have been provided  with a better 
explanation of the reasons not to transfer at the time.  But Im satisfied that suitable  advice 
would have recommended  that he retain  his existing benefits and that he would probably 
have followed that advice. 
Ref: DRN06453592my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that, with suitable advice, Mr B would not have 
proceeded with the transfer. So I dont  think  hes lost out as a result of the transfer  not 
completing in the allotted time.  
But I do think a payment in respect of the service failures is appropriate in this instance. And 
so Arrow  Financial Services UK Limited should pay Mr B £250.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06453593Extract from provisional decision.
complaint
Mr B has complained about Arrow Financial Services UK Limited.  He is unhappy about the way it 
dealt with a proposed transfer out of his employers defined benefit pension scheme.
background
In late 2017 Mr B was considering transferring his defined benefits  (DB) from his employers pension  
scheme into a Personal Pension Policy (PPP). He had obtained a transfer value of over £350,000 
which was valid until 6 February  2018.
Mr B spoke with different financial advisers  before deciding to engage  Arrow. He had three meetings 
with an adviser from Arrow and after the last of these meetings understood that the transfer was going  
ahead.
Mr B says that he heard  nothing  and so in March  2018 he contacted Arrow. He says that he was told 
the transfer was going ahead but that there were backlogs. But nothing  happened and so Mr B 
contacted his employer  directly only to be told that there had been no transfer request for him. He 
contacted Arrow again and was told that someone would  investigate what had happened.
In April 2018  another adviser from Arrow told Mr B that he was the pension  specialist who had 
considered the transfer. After that review he had decided  that the transfer wasnt in Mr Bs best 
interest and so hed decided not to recommend it. He said that he had called  Mr B and left a message 
on his answerphone telling  him this.
Mr B says that he didnt get any message.
Mr B then obtained a new transfer value. This was almost £100,000 lower and when he took advice 
elsewhere, he was advised against transferring as the value was too low to justify it. Mr B was 
unhappy about this and made a complaint. He believes that he has lost out on the difference between 
the two transfer values of almost £100,000.
Arrow responded and insisted that Mr B was told they would only be able to provide him with advice 
or a recommendation  to transfer once they carried out a Transfer Value  Analysis report (TVAS)  and 
after this had been considered by a pension  specialist.
Arrow accepted that there had been some failures in its service and offered to pay Mr B £250 for the 
inconvenience caused.  But it said that Mr B hadnt suffered any financial loss as he was likely to be 
better off staying in the DB scheme.
The complaint was considered by an investigator at this service. She didnt think that it should be 
upheld. She felt that the TVAS demonstrated that Mr B was likely to be better  off remaining  in the DB 
scheme as Arrow had said. Transferring out would  not be in his best interest. She felt that Mr B would 
have relied  upon the advice if it had been communicated  clearly and so he hadnt lost the opportunity 
to transfer out. The DB scheme provided guaranteed retirement benefits which  Mr B would  have been 
giving up if he transferred out.
The investigator agreed that there  had been poor communication. The voicemail should have been 
followed up and Mr B had been reassured that the transfer was going  ahead. However, she felt that 
the offer of £250 was fair in all the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree.  He said that he would have transferred even if hed received the message  that it 
was not in his interests. He would  have  taken advice  elsewhere.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN06453594my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done that, Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
Investigator. I dont uphold  this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration and his belief  that he has lost out on almost £100,000 by not 
transferring his pension as and when he wished to. However, whilst on the face of it, a transfer to a 
PPP would have been £100,000 higher than the value which was quoted after the deadline  had 
passed, there  are other  important factors to be considered here. 
Mr B was in his late thirties  with many years ahead of him before retirement. He had accrued  around 
twenty years worth of benefits in his employers DB scheme  and this was the entirety of his pension 
provision up to that point. One of the major  benefits of a DB scheme  is that retirement benefits  are 
guaranteed. If Mr B had transferred out, the transferred funds  would have to be invested in an effort to 
match and exceed the retirement benefits that were already guaranteed. This would mean that he 
would have to take investment risks and his pension would be subject to volatility and fluctuation in 
value.  
When considering transfers out of DB schemes like this, the industry  regulator has provided clear 
guidance to advisers on the approach that should  be taken. It says:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined  benefits occupational  
pension scheme or other  scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a 
firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  
only then consider a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out  is in the client's best interests. 
(COBS 19.1.6)
So the starting point is that transferring out will not be suitable for most  people.  And this is because  of 
the valuable guarantees contained within  the defined benefit scheme.
Arrow carried out a TVAS.  This assessed,  amongst other things, the critical yield that would  be 
required to match the guaranteed  benefits of the DB scheme. This report  appears to suggest  that a 
consistent annual  yield of around 6.5 per cent or more would be necessary just to match  the existing  
benefits. So a higher return would be necessary  to do better  and achieve  higher benefits in retirement 
and make the transfer worthwhile.  
Projected growth rates  were  published by this Service on our website up until mid 2018   this was for 
the purpose of redress calculations if a complaint about  unsuitable transfer advice was upheld.  They  
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would  have been considered reasonably achievable 
at the time.  The investment return (critical yield)  required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was 6.5 per cent pa for a single  life pension  at age 65 and 6.8 per cent pa for a joint life 
pension at the same  age. The closest  rate of return  to this time to which  I'm able to refer was 4.6 per 
cent pa for 27 years to retirement.
So for Mr B to even  match  the existing guaranteed benefits, his future investment would need to do 
better than the rates predicted by around 40 per cent. And so a fairly high risk strategy  would have 
been needed  to achieve this.
So its understandable why Arrow concluded  that the transfer wasnt in Mr Bs best interest.
Mr B says that he would have gone ahead with the transfer  despite advice not to do so. Its of course  
possible that, had Arrow concluded the advisory process within the allotted time and issued  its 
conclusion that Mr B shouldnt  transfer his benefits,  he might  have acted  against that advice. But Ive 
Ref: DRN06453595also thought about how likely that is. 
Firstly, Mr B wouldnt have known that a subsequent transfer value would be £100,000 lower,  and so 
he would have no comparator with which to determine whether the transfer was good  value.  But 
good value here is in any case relative, because of the valuable benefits of staying  in the defined  
benefit scheme. Mr B would have had no access to the funds within the PPP until he was at least 55 
(and that minimum retirement age may change  in the future). The advisory process  would, or should, 
have pointed  that out, so all that would  happen is that Mr Bs pension funds would have stayed 
invested in a PPP, which would have been subject to the fluctuations in financial markets   as 
opposed to the increases  which are built in to a defined benefit scheme.
To obtain the kind of growth required to match the scheme benefits,  Mr Bs pension funds  would have 
needed to be invested predominantly in equities. And just to reinforce  the point about the guarantees 
of the scheme benefits versus the vagaries of the financial markets, I think its worth pointing out that, 
from the high point in January 2018, the FTSE 100 index  has declined by some  30 per cent.  So in a 
little over two years, had the transfer  taken place  Mr Bs pension fund of £355,000 would in all 
likelihood have suffered  substantial  losses  (coincidentally  approximately £100,000) rather than the 6 
per cent consecutive yearly  increase (or approximately £50,000 gain) which  would have been 
required simply to match the scheme benefits he would  have given up.
But as the transfer didnt take place, Mr Bs pension benefits are secure  and guaranteed.
I do also accept that there was uncertainty around the future of the BSPS at the time,  which  led to 
many members exploring their options  and a great many transferring.  But again, the advisory 
process would  or should  have pointed out the benefits of staying within the BSPS II, which retained 
many of the benefits of the BSPS.  And Im sure Mr B will be all too aware of the subsequent  
conclusions of many  of those who did transfer that this was a life changing mistake.  
Lump sum benefits in the event of Mr Bs death have also been cited as a benefit  of transferring. But 
there are two issues here  the first is that Mr B had no particular health issues which would  mean 
that death  benefits for a 38 year old were of concern at that point. The second is that the benefits 
provided by the BSPS were valuable.  A lump  sum may have  its appeal   and I recognise that in some 
situations the ability to pass a lump  sum to a beneficiary  or to the estate could be particularly 
advantageous when compared to an income  stream through  the spouses pension.  But a pension for 
Mr Bs wife for life, a dependants pension  for his children until they left full time education and a lump 
sum return of his own contributions would  also have been of great benefit. 
And so there would, in my view, have been no compelling reason   or certainly none which 
outweighed those against  the transfer - as to why Mr B would have  rejected the advice,  ignoring the 
comparative benefits of the defined benefit scheme, and nevertheless opting to transfer to a PPP. If 
Mr B envisaged needing  access to a lump sum at retirement age, then a transfer could be considered 
closer to, or at, that time. Again, this is something which would,  or should, have been pointed out as a 
part of the advisory process.
So my conclusion based  on the available  evidence is that there was no overall  persuasive case  for 
transferring in 2017/18. And I think its more  likely than not that, for the reasons given, Mr B would 
have accepted  the expert  advice which recommended that he shouldnt transfer - as it wasnt in his 
best interests. 
That Mr B didnt then transfer once the transfer value had reduced and hed received further advice 
that it wasnt viable tells me that Mr B took notice of a skilled professional.  Ive noted that the firm 
which subsequently advised  Mr B said that it would  have endorsed the transfer at the higher  transfer 
value figure.  But I can only assume that it isnt in possession of the full facts of the case. And if hed 
been given advice - albeit in a timelier  fashion - that even  with a £100,000 higher transfer value, the 
potential benefits of transferring similarly wouldnt realistically be realised without taking  undue risk, I 
Ref: DRN06453596think he would have also accepted that advice.
I should  also say at this point that, even if the complaint were to be upheld, redress would take the 
form of putting Mr B into the position he would  now be in, had the transfer of the higher value amount  
taken place by February 2018. But he would first need to transfer out of the BSPS II. And given what  
Ive said above about the losses a PPP would likely have sustained above,  and that an un-enhanced 
transfer value today might  be between  £255,000 and £300,000, I think  its unlikely there would  in any 
case be a loss.
So in essence,  if Mr B were to transfer today, I think thered  be broad equivalence between his 
pension fund position now and that had he transferred with the enhanced value in February  2018.
For clarity, this is simply an observation. It doesnt influence the outcome. Irrespective of any position  
of gain or loss, my view is that, properly  advised, Mr B would not have transferred his deferred 
benefits to a PPP. And if hed received an appropriately worded letter of recommendation containing a 
robust assessment of the prospect of transferring, I think its likely  he would have retained his 
deferred pension  benefits  in the BSPS  II. 
But I agree that there have  been failures  in the service provided here. There  should have been  some 
follow up to the message that was left  and which I note Mr B disputes was even left in the first place 
- and it seems that Mr B was misled about the progress  (or lack thereof)  of the transfer. Furthermore, 
at no point, other  than to a limited extent  in the final response letter,  was the rationale for not 
recommending the transfer set out in writing  to Mr B. Taking into account  the likely impact that this 
had on Mr B, including the frustration and worry  that he might have lost out financially,  but 
nevertheless mindful that the recommendation  would have been to retain the benefits in the defined 
benefit scheme, I think that the offer of £250 is a fair offer for the trouble  and upset  this will have 
caused.
provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  my provisional view is that, with suitable advice, Mr B would not have 
proceeded with the transfer. So I dont think hes lost out as a result of the transfer not completing in 
the allotted time. 
But I do think  a payment in respect of the service failures is appropriate in this instance.  And so Arrow  
Financial Services  UK Limited should pay Mr B £250. 
Ref: DRN0645359