K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Erudio Student Loans  Limited  has defaulted two of his student loans. 
background
Mr M said that hed had many years  of deferment  of his student  loans, without any problems. 
He said that he met the eligibility criteria  for deferment, because  of his low income.  But he 
said that now Erudio  was refusing to backdate his deferment date, and stated  that he hadnt 
been responding to letters, even though hed been in regular contact with it. 
Mr M said that hed told Erudio hed done his deferment application, and it had led him to 
believe that once  the application was done, then his account would be up to date, and it 
wouldnt be defaulted. But he said that it was defaulted, and now he was facing debt 
recovery action. 
Mr M said that he wanted his loans  reinstated, and deferment accepted. He wanted  Erudio  
to remove any arrears  from his loans, and any adverse  information  from his credit file. And 
he wanted it to apologise.
Mr M has sent us documents, presumably obtained  through a freedom of information  
request, which  set out that the consortium now managing student loans proposed to take a 
more robust  approach to deferment.  This document states that the consortium will request 
more detailed evidence  for deferments,  and will test that evidence  more robustly.
Mr M has told us that he started his course in 1995.  The two student  loans that Erudio now 
manages were taken out in 1998 and 1999. The loans were  sold to Erudio in March 2014.  
The loans were  deferred then, Erudio said that Mr M would be contacted before the 
deferment period  ended. 
Mr M said that his deferment  application was put in 17 August 2018. But he told us that a 
that notice of default was issued on 22 August and a termination letter 21 September. Mr M 
indicated that his deferment had then been granted. 
Erudio said that it had bought two of Mr Ms loans.  He was still supposed to apply for a 
deferment through the original body  that used to administer the loans, and that body would 
tell Erudio whether  the deferment  was successful or not. 
Erudio said that Mr Ms existing deferment  ended on 19 June 2018. A deferment  application 
form had been  issued to Mr M eight  weeks before  this by the original body that used to 
administer the loans. Mr Ms was therefore  due to make a payment on 20 June 2018. But 
Erudio said Mr M didnt  pay, so he started to accrue arrears on the account. 
Erudio said that Mr M had rung on 17 August,  to say that he was going to email  back  the 
deferment form to it. Erudio told him then that he needed to send that form to the original 
body that used to administer  the loans. Mr M asked  how long this would take to process, and 
Erudio said it didnt  know, but a hold would  be put on the account to give him time to send 
this in. 
Erudio said that it had then told Mr M that if further  arrears accrued, that this would lead to 
his account terminating, and Erudio  said that Mr M had agreed to this. He was also advised  
Ref: DRN09508922about the rollback of arrears once deferment  was accepted. Erudio  said it had never told 
Mr M that a hold on his account would stop a termination of his loan.  
Erudio said that the original body  that used to administer  the loans had confirmed that Mr 
Ms deferment was incomplete  when it terminated his loan account. Erudio didnt think it had 
done anything  wrong by terminating the account. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that Mr M had told Erudio that hed put in a 
deferment application before the notice of default  was issued. Our investigator said that 
Erudios call handler gave  the impression that all actions  on the account would be stopped  
while the deferment application  was processed, and reinforced that impression by saying 
that the deferment could be backdated for three  months.  
Our investigator said that a notice of default  was actually issued only four days  after Mr Ms 
call. She said that she wouldnt expect the notice of default to be issued until after the 30 day 
hold period. She thought  if that had happened then the deferment wouldve been completed  
by the time the default notice was up, and the termination wouldve been  prevented. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Erudio had acted  fairly by terminating the account. So she 
thought that it should reinstate the account,  and cancel the default. 
Mr M didnt  agree with that. He said that Erudio should do more. It should pay compensation 
for the stress  that all this had caused  him. It should remove any extra arrears that had 
accrued since the end of this deferment on 19 June. And it should accept that his deferment 
had been accepted, and update its records accordingly. 
Erudio didnt agree  with what our investigator  said either. It said that its call hander had only 
said that calls about the debt would  stop, not that letters would stop. Mr M got a notice of 
default, and Erudio thought he shouldve got in touch  with it after that. Erudio also said that it 
wasnt possible now to reinstate the agreement, as it had been legally terminated.  
Our investigator said she had listened  to the call again, and didnt agree with Erudio. She 
thought that if the account was only on hold to stop calls, then this shouldve  been explained 
rather differently to Mr M. And our investigator  didnt agree that the agreement couldnt  be 
reinstated. It had been terminated incorrectly, so it should be possible  to reinstate it. 
Our investigator said that she did think that if Mr Ms account  hadnt terminated, then three 
months of arrears wouldve been  removed once the deferment was agreed. So she said that 
three months of arrears should  be removed from the account  once it was reinstated.  
Our investigator said that she didnt feel that Erudio  should pay compensation, because 
Mr M had contributed to the delays in the deferment  being accepted.  
Mr M accepted the revised view, but Erudio didnt. It wanted this case to be considered by 
an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Ref: DRN09508923I understand that Mr M hadnt  applied for a fresh deferment in advance of the previous 
deferment having ended.  But I also understand that Mr M had done the same  thing  
previously, without the severe consequences  that he faced on this occasion.
Mr M contacted Erudio to say that he was making a deferment application  on 17 August.  Ive 
listened to that call, and like our investigator, I think that the call handler gave Mr M the 
impression that a hold would be put on his account for that application to be processed.  I 
think, in particular, that she was right to say that if the account was only on hold to stop calls, 
then this shouldve  been explained  rather  differently  to Mr M. I think  it was reasonable for 
Mr M to conclude,  from this call, that he had a 30-day breathing  space to get his deferment  
application in, before further action would be taken.  
Mr M was sent a notice  warning of upcoming  default, only a few days  after he made the call. 
Erudio said that it thought  Mr M shouldve called it again, after this. But Mr M has received 
this sort of notice before,  in 2017.  The default  was stopped then because  his deferment 
application was accepted.  So it doesnt  seem unreasonable for Mr M to have thought the 
same was likely  to happen this time. 
Mr Ms application for deferment  wasnt accepted  before the default date mentioned  in the 
notice, and Erudio  defaulted his loans.  I think its also worth noting here that Mr M has told 
us that his previous default applications  involved significantly  less paperwork. Mr M said he 
only previously needed to send in bank  statements, but this time he was asked for much 
more, including  for further information after the application was sent in.
When this case was passed to me, I thought that the main issue outstanding  was whether 
Mr M actually received a deferment. I didnt think that it would be fair to ask Erudio to remove 
the default on these two loans, and reinstate them, if Mr M didnt  actually qualify for that 
deferment in the end. But Ive now received  confirmation that Mr M did qualify for a 
deferment, which was granted  on 5 October 2018.  
That means that our investigator was quite right to say that if Erudio  had placed  a hold on 
Mr Ms account for 30 days, then issued a notice  of default after that, his deferment  wouldve 
been granted before Mr Ms loan defaulted. I agree with her that this is what Erudio 
shouldve done,  so I agree that, because  it didnt do that, then Erudio should now remove  
these defaults  from Mr Ms credit file, reinstate the loans, and roll back the arrears on each 
loan by three months.
Mr M has said he also wants compensation for what Erudio did. Whilst I do think that Erudio 
made a mistake in this case, I also agree with our investigator that this problem couldve 
been avoided  if Mr M had applied for a fresh deferment when he was first invited to do so. 
So I dont  think that Erudio is the sole cause  of the problems Mr M has experienced, and I 
think that the requirement to reinstate these loans in the way Ive set out above  provides a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Erudio Student Loans  Limited should  remove the defaults for the 
student loan accounts ending 3757 and 1598 from Mr Ms credit file. It should  reinstate these 
loans, and remove three months  of arrears from each loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Ref: DRN09508924Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0950892