K820x#14complaint
Mr S1 complains that Automobile Association  Insurance Services Limited (AA) mis-sold him 
roadside assistance insurance.  He wants a full refund  of the premium and a refund of the 
recovery costs he paid.  This complaint is brought on Mr S1s behalf  by his brother, Mr S2. 
background
Mr S1 had a roadside  breakdown and Mr S2 called  AA to take out roadside  assistance 
membership for him. Mr S2 said that in this call the costs of recovery  by its Relay  product 
werent explained to him. Mr S2 wanted  the policy  cancelled and the premium refunded. He 
also wanted a refund of the recovery costs  Mr S1 incurred. AA offered to cancel the policy  
and provide a refund  in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  AA had 
explained the roadside assistance and recovery service and costs in the call. He thought 
that, as it was an emergency, Mr S1 would have  still gone ahead  as he had done even if 
more explanation had been  provided.
Mr S2 replied that he didnt agree  with the investigators view. So the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basis  of Mr S2s complaint is the explanation  he was given about the roadside 
assistance and recovery costs when he called AA. Mr S2 said his brother was charged for 
the membership fee and then the recovery costs,  which he thought  was extortionate. He also 
complained that hed cancelled the policy within the cooling off period but hadnt  yet received 
the expected refund.
Like the investigator, Ive listened  to the call where  Mr S2 took out cover for his brother. In 
the call, the advisor explained  that roadside  assistance was needed in the first instance. She 
explained that if the car couldnt  be repaired  at the roadside, then the Relay option could be 
added. This covered the first 50 miles of the journey home and then the remaining mileage 
would costs £2.50 a mile.  
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
 
The AA has explained  that it doesnt provide  direct  recoveries.  It said recovery  would  only be 
authorised if its engineer  couldnt repair the car at the roadside. In that case, the customer  
would be offered the recovery  option. AA said this was in the customers best interests as it 
only sold the level of cover needed. And, there was no financial benefit for the breakdown 
customer buying the two options at the same time.  
Ref: DRN05532982Ive looked at the policy terms  and conditions. I can see that in the case of a consumer 
buying cover  in a breakdown situation, like Mr S2 did for Mr S1, then certain limitations 
apply. The policy explains that the provision of Relay in these  circumstances is discretionary 
and subject to charges.  
I think the advisor explained this to Mr S2 in the sales call. And then I think  the charges  were 
correctly applied as she had explained.  So I cant say that AA made an error in this. 
I can understand that Mr S2 thought his brother was charged a lot for his cover. But AA has 
explained that consumers buying  its products  in normal  as opposed to a breakdown  situation 
benefit from substantial  discounts. It said this was to discourage  consumers using Relay  as 
an ad hoc service.  As this is a legitimate exercise  of its commercial judgement, and its 
applied equally to all consumers, Im not able to comment on this further. 
I can see that AA has agreed to provide  a refund for cancellation of the policy  within the 14 
day cooling  off period as outlined  by the policy terms and conditions.  I think this was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require AA to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0553298