K820x#14Complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
Background
In 2003, Mr B applied  for a credit  card by post. At the same time,  Capital  One sold him PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr B disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Bs case. 
Having done so, I dont believe the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of the form Mr B completed  and signed to apply for the credit card.  It 
offered a choice of Yes  and No boxes  for PPI in a section headed Additional 
Information.  The Yes box was ticked.  
On balance, I believe Mr B was made aware  the PPI was optional and that he decided  to 
take it on that basis. Its understandable if he doesnt remember  that now after all this time.
I dont consider that Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr B. That meant  it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to give him enough  information  to be able to 
decide for himself  if it was right for him. And the information had to be clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
Looking at the information I have,  its possible that Capital One didnt do this as well as it 
should have. But I dont think Mr B is worse  off as a result. Thats  because  I dont think better 
information would have changed Mr Bs mind about  buying  the PPI. I say that because from 
what I know of his circumstances  at the time of sale:
Mr B was eligible  for the policy. And he wasnt affected by any of the main  things  the 
policy excluded or limited  cover for. 
Mr Bs told us he had very limited  means of meeting  his card repayments if he wasnt  
working. The PPI would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on the account for up 
to 12 months per claim  for both disability  and unemployment.  So I think  the PPI 
provided Mr B with useful protection.  
Ive seen  nothing  to suggest the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for Mr B. And it 
flexible in that he could have cancelled  it at any time at no extra  cost.
Which means Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ref: DRN05812762But Capital Ones paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B (by offsetting this against his 
existing debt with it) because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital Ones paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats  fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done  this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0581276