K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd lent to him in an irresponsible manner when it approved  his 
application for a credit  card in May 2014, and then increased his credit  limit four months 
later.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2021. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. We havent  
received anything further from either  NewDay or Mr C.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
So for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision I dont think  NewDay  was wrong to 
originally offer the credit card to Mr C. And based on the information I have available I am 
not able to conclude that proportionate checks should have led NewDay to conclude  it 
shouldnt offer the credit limit increase to Mr C either.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against NewDay  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08139312EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd lent to him in an irresponsible manner when  it approved his 
application for a credit  card in May 2014, and then increased his credit limit four months later.
background
NewDay accepted Mr Cs application for an Aqua credit card in May 2014.  It opened  his account and 
agreed to an initial credit  limit of £600. In August 2014 NewDay offered to increase  Mr Cs credit limit 
to £1,300. In December 2014 Mr C started to face problems meeting his contractual  minimum  
payments on the account. His account  was defaulted in September 2016 and I understand that his 
debt has now been transferred to a third party.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought  that it had been 
reasonable for NewDay to offer the credit card with the £600 credit limit to Mr C. But she didnt  think 
the checks  NewDay had done before increasing  the credit  limit had been sufficient. So she thought 
that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld  and she asked NewDay to pay Mr C some compensation.
NewDay didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time NewDay first opened the credit card account  for Mr C, and when  
it increased the credit limit, required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
whether he could afford to repay  what he owed  in a sustainable manner.  This assessment  is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so NewDay had to think  about  whether  repaying the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this meant that 
NewDay had to ensure  that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr C undue  difficulty or adverse  
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for NewDay to simply  think  about  the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent  upon a number  of 
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN08139313the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether NewDay did what it needed to before agreeing  to lend to Mr C.
NewDay gathered  some  information from Mr C before it agreed to offer him the credit card. It asked 
him for details  of his income. And it checked his credit file to assess  how he had managed credit in 
the past. That check showed  that he had previously defaulted on an account.  But since that default  
had been recorded almost  six years earlier I think it was reasonable for NewDay to decide that didnt  
have any significant impact on Mr Cs application.
I think  the checks NewDay did when it first offered the credit card were proportionate.  The initial credit 
limit that NewDay set on Mr Cs credit  card was relatively  modest so the amounts that Mr C needed to 
repay were small  compared  with the income hed declared. Given these repayment  amounts and 
what was apparent about  Mr Cs circumstances  at the time,  I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for NewDay  to ask him for the amount  of information that would be needed  to show the 
lending was unsustainable before offering  him the credit card.
NewDay has told us that this particular credit card was aimed at consumers who might have faced 
problems with credit in the past.  So it would generally  offer a low credit limit at the start,  before 
increasing that limit when  a consumer had demonstrated they were able to manage the credit that 
had been offered  in a responsible manner. 
I note that NewDay says that Mr C was only offered the credit limit increase  it says he was free to 
reject the offer if he wished. But I think that misses  the fundamental point that it was NewDay,  not 
Mr C, that was required  to ensure the offered credit  was sustainably affordable.  The regulations were 
in place to protect consumers  not to assist lenders in managing the risk of repayments not being 
made. 
The increase in Mr Cs credit  limit was significant. And it was made only three months after he had 
first taken the credit card  I dont think that was anywhere near long enough for NewDay to have 
gained any significant  degree  of confidence  over his use of credit. The minimum repayments that 
Mr C would need  to make  had more than doubled.. So I would think  it reasonable that NewDay would 
want to gather, and independently check, some detailed  information  about  Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before  it agreed to increase  the credit limit. I dont think that the checks it has told us 
about were  enough. I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to independently  check  the 
true state  of Mr Cs finances  before agreeing the credit limit increase. 
But although  I dont  think the checks NewDay  did before increasing the credit limit were  sufficient, that 
in itself doesnt mean that Mr Cs complaint  should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that what 
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown  NewDay that Mr C couldnt sustainably 
afford the repayments. So we asked  Mr C for copies of his bank statements  from the time so we could 
see what better checks might have shown  NewDay.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that NewDay  
should have carried out. I do think NewDay needed evidence to demonstrate in detail what  was 
happening with Mr Cs finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of achieving that 
although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be established.  But I think that 
by looking at Mr Cs bank statements I can get a good  idea of what  better checks  might have shown.
Ref: DRN08139314But Mr C hasnt given us the information we asked for, or an explanation  why he cant provide  it. So, 
I havent been  able to get a picture of what his financial circumstances were like at the relevant  time. 
That means I cant say that, if NewDay had completed sufficient  checks, it wouldve found that Mr C 
couldnt afford  to repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
So in summary I dont  currently  think NewDay  was wrong to originally offer the credit card to Mr C. 
And based on the information I currently have available  I am not able to conclude that proportionate 
checks would have led NewDay to conclude  it shouldnt  offer the credit limit increase to Mr C either. 
Of course, if Mr C is able to provide the information we have asked for, I will reconsider his complaint.
Ref: DRN0813931