K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Skipton Financial  Services Ltd failed to take accurate notes of her 
income tax position,  and the likely implications of this, when recommending  she surrender 
an investment. This resulted in an unnecessary  tax charge of nearly £7,000.  She has says 
the charges were not clear.
background
Mrs R feels the advisor ought to have got up-to-date information  from her accountant before 
recommending the surrender. She also believes the advisor stated that an alternative fund 
within the bond would have achieved  better  returns without the need to surrender, and 
incorrectly stated the charge  to switch. She wants Skipton to reimburse  the tax incurred and 
initial charges.
Mrs R, along with her husband,  met with a Skipton advisor in April 2017 because she was 
unhappy with the performance of her existing  bond and wanted an investment that had the 
potential to achieve a capital growth of 4%. Prior to this she attended an appointment in 
February 2017 where it was noted  that Mr and Mrs R used to own their own business, which 
had been passed to their sons, but still received a monthly salary.
The advisor recorded their wages, pension,  savings and investments, with the dividend  
income section recorded  as nil. Mrs R said she made it clear to the advisor her accountant 
knew what, if any, dividend income she received as it wasn't something she could  recall  off 
the top of her head.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
Firstly, she felt Mr and Mrs R ought to have been  aware whether they were in receipt  of 
dividend income  given the length of time theyd owned the business.  While Mrs R may not 
have known an exact figure there  was nothing  on the file to indicate that an unknown figure 
was mentioned or that Skipton was waiting  for Mrs R to provide further information. She felt 
that had Mrs R mentioned  she was, or might  have been in receipt  of dividends, the advisor 
would have made a note to explore this later.
While it was now clear that dividends took Mrs R into the higher tax rate band, she didnt feel 
the evidence indicated the advisor should've known this at the time, particularly as Mrs R 
signed to say the information on the personal  financial  questionnaire was accurate.
She noted Mrs R also believed the advisor incorrectly stated - in his comparison of her 
investment options  - that an alternative  fund within the bond would have achieved better 
returns without the need to surrender, but incorrectly stated the charge to switch.  Mrs R 
further felt the fees were quite excessive  and she wasn't made aware  of them  all as this 
wasn't clear  on the graph.
The investigator said Skipton confirmed it had provided a full customer  agreement document 
explaining the charges  for its service  (on 17 February 2017).
She noted that the advisor stated in his recommendation that the cost of the alternative 
multi-asset option was cheaper per annum  than his recommendation, the initial  charge was 
less and that it had performed better than his recommendation. So she understood why on 
the face of it looked like the better option. But she noted that the advisor  explained within his 
Ref: DRN02893232suitability letter why the fund wasn't chosen,  saying this fund was discounted as the 
manager had not managed this fund for five years  and therefore demonstrated an ability to 
deliver good returns. Skipton explained  that when  its research department assess a fund it 
wouldn't look at the five year return in isolation as this isn't an indication of how the fund may 
perform in the future.  Instead, it looks at how the fund was managed.
Based on this she was satisfied Skipton  made Mrs R aware of the charges, and clearly 
explained why he had recommended one fund over the other. She recognised Mrs R wanted 
to avoid potential  tax charges but felt Skipton  took this into consideration when providing the 
advice, and made reasonable steps to avoid charges.
Mrs Rs representative did not agree  and said:
Mrs Rs recollection of what the advisor asked in relation to her income was more 
closed in questioning style, resulting in a failure  to discover  the dividend  income
Mr and Mrs R relied  on accountants and other advisors for information such as what  
dividends they were receiving
When dealing with matters they always say they are unsure and would need  to refer 
to the company accountant
They say there was only a brief discussion  of their income and they signed  the fact 
find at the beginning of the process
The question of dividends  was not raised  when discussing their income
It is incumbent on the advisor to enquire about these things; a client cannot know  
what is relevant and what isnt
Mr and Mrs R say that they first saw the About Our Services brochure when Skipton 
produced it recently; they simply signed  where they were told to do so
Given the volume of documents they were presented  with it was understandable if 
they did not scrutinise every page,  instead  relying  on the advisor  to point  out what  
was most important 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I think its important to explain that my role, when considering  a complaint, is to 
decide whether  a business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake,  not whether it 
might have done things differently (such as made  a different recommendation).
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice.
Firstly, I dont share Mrs Rs representatives  view about the advisors  responsibility  in 
relation to checking a clients income  and assets. Advisors  are dependent  on a client to fully 
inform them  of their various  assets and holdings, and cannot  in effect have a sixth sense 
about other income. In this case I think Mrs R ought  reasonably to have known she had, or 
might have, ongoing money  including dividends from her former business and so shouldve 
made the advisor aware  if she was not sure about this issue. 
I cannot be certain what was discussed  in the meeting and how clear  such  discussions were, 
and I recognise the strength of Mrs Rs recollection about the dividend  issue,  but I can see 
no reason why the advisor would have  not asked about potential  dividend  income given his 
Ref: DRN02893233summary provides  a very lengthy and detailed account of Mr and Mrs Rs finances and 
various assets. There was no advantage in ignoring  this sub-heading and writing nil 
dividend. I also believe Mrs R did have a clear  responsibility to check  key facts  such as 
these.
So I cannot reasonably conclude that the failure to record dividend income was the advisors 
fault.
For the reasons  outlined  by the investigator  I am also not persuaded that the recommended 
switch was unsuitable or that the alternative  fund was clearly more suitable.  There were  
clearly some  potential advantages to the alternative  but I dont believe this made  the 
proposed fund unsuitable or necessarily definitely  less suitable. In this context I think 
Skiptons explanation is rational and reasonable.
Finally, I have seen no evidence to indicate  that the fees were hidden  or not clearly spelt  out. 
I fully acknowledge  that customers in these situations are often presented with a lot of 
information to try and digest, and many may not read everything in great  detail. However, the 
cost of the proposed advice is clearly a major  consideration and so I cannot agree that an 
investor bears no responsibility for not checking  the cost of such  advice before signing a 
document. In my view it was for Mrs R to seek further clarification  or advice  if she felt the 
charges were not clear or considered them excessive.
Overall, I have  not seen  sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. Where  I have not 
discussed particular  complaint points  it is either  because I share the investigators view of 
them or I did not conclude that they were  of sufficient weight to affect  the overall merits of 
the complaint.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0289323