K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr P was given three loans by Mr Lender in September 2014. Although Mr P faced some  
problems repaying  the final loan, all of the loans have been  fully repaid. A summary of 
Mr Ps borrowing  from Mr Lender  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 05/09/2014 09/09/2014 £    400
2 09/09/2014 29/09/2014 £    120
3 29/09/2014 28/03/2015 £ 1,000
Mr Ps complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He thought  it had been  
reasonable for Mr Lender to give the first two loans  to Mr P. But he didnt think  Mr Lender 
should have agreed to give the final loan. So he asked Mr Lender to pay Mr P some 
compensation.
Mr Lender didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr P accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN08377902the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending 
defines sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in particular the customer  should  
be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well 
as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows  that a lender should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
The repayment that Mr P needed to make on his first loan was relatively modest compared 
to the income  he declared to Mr Lender. Mr P repaid that loan much  earlier  than planned, 
just four days after taking  the loan. And he then asked to borrow  again  the same  day. I think  
that behaviour  might  have caused some  concerns to Mr Lender about  Mr Ps finances.  But 
the amount Mr P asked to borrow on the second loan was much  smaller  than before so that 
might have helped  allay some of the concerns Mr Lender should have had at that time.
On balance, considering Mr Ps repayment  amounts, what  was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, and his history with the lender, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information  that would be needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable.  And there  wasnt  anything  in the information Mr P 
provided or the information Mr Lender  shouldve  been aware of, which meant  it wouldve 
been proportionate to start verifying  what he was saying.  So I dont think Mr Lender was 
wrong to give these two loans to Mr P.
Mr P repaid  his second loan on time. But as before, on the same  day that loan was repaid, 
he asked to borrow again. And the amount he asked to borrow this time was significantly 
larger than either of the loans hed previously taken.  He agreed with Mr Lender  that hed 
repay this loan in two instalments over the next two months but even so the repayments  hed 
need to make would  take up a significant portion  of his declared income.
Ref: DRN08377903I appreciate that Mr Lender had asked Mr P for information about his income and 
expenditure. But I think the pattern  and size of Mr Ps borrowing were  such  that it wasnt  
reasonable for Mr Lender to rely on that information. I think the sheer size of the repayment  
should have caused Mr Lender  to carefully  consider whether it was likely that Mr P would  be 
able to meet  his repayments in a sustainable manner. Ive seen no evidence that Mr Lender  
performed that assessment. And I think Mr Lender should have decided that it was unlikely 
that Mr P would be able to sustainably meet his repayments. So I dont think it should have 
agreed to give Mr P this loan.
putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed  to give Mr P the final loan that he took on 
29 September 2014 (loan 3). So Mr Lender  should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loan. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ps credit  file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ps complaint and direct  PDL Finance Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0837790