K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that his local ATM  for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has not been 
working properly.
background
Mr M got in touch with RBS in March 2019 because his local ATM machine had run out of 
paper which meant hed been unable to print a receipt or get an up to date balance when 
making withdrawals. He also says that the machine did not have ten pound  notes. He says 
this had been a problem  for ten days.
RBS apologised  for the inconvenience caused to Mr M. They  confirmed that the issue with 
the ATM had been recorded and that arrangements would be made  to restock  the machine. 
RBS also credited Mr Ms account  with £10 by way of an apology.
They further advised Mr M in a letter  that he could use RBSs online banking  facility should 
he wish to do so. And they explained that as a RBS customer he could access certain 
facilities at his local Post Office too.
Mr M was not happy with RBSs response. He would like to be able to print out his 
mini-statements and wants £50 compensation.
Our investigator did not think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld  because she thought  RBS 
had done enough to put things right. Mr M does not agree and says the problem has not 
been fixed.
So this case  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M feels  strongly about what happened here. And thats not surprising. I 
can understand his frustration when his local ATM wasnt working properly.  But I do not 
uphold his complaint and I shall explain my reasons.
RBS do not disagree  that the ATM  was not working as it should  have  been.  So the issue 
here is whether  RBS have acted fairly and reasonably in responding to Mr M when he raised 
the issue.
When Mr M called  RBS about the ATM, action was taken to deal with the problem.  A report  
was logged for an engineer to sort things out. I appreciate that things  may not have been  
resolved on the first visit, but ultimately  the £10 notes were restocked and the machine fixed. 
So Mr M should now be able to access his mini-statements.
It is accepted that Mr M was caused  inconvenience  because he couldnt use RBSs  banking 
facilities in the way he usually did. RBS have  apologised and paid him £10 compensation. 
Mr M says this is not enough  so Ive thought carefully about whether I should increase this 
amount.
Ref: DRN02238622I have listened  to the phone call when  Mr M first reported the problem. And I can see that 
RBS explained  to Mr M that they could arrange  for him to receive text message alerts  on a 
weekly basis to show his balance. He was also advised in a letter that he could use RBSs  
online banking facility  or go to his local Post Office.  So RBS provided Mr M with alternative 
ways to review his balance which wouldve minimised the inconvenience caused by the 
problems with the ATM had they been  taken up.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but I think RBS have acted fairly and reasonably  in responding 
to his complaint.  So I wont be asking them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0223862