K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly  blocked  his accounts whilst  he was 
working outside of the United Kingdom.
background
Mr P says he was working and living abroad  and found out Nationwide had blocked his 
accounts without  contacting him. He says Nationwide refused to reinstate his accounts and 
its actions caused  him inconvenience. Mr P says he would like compensation for what  
happened and for access  to his money.  He also says Nationwides  communication needs  
changing.
Nationwide says its not made a mistake and acted  in line with the account terms and 
conditions as it received  returned letters that it wrote  to Mr P. It says under those terms and 
conditions it can put an account block in place.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator thought  
Mr P didnt tell Nationwide about his travel plans and so its concerns and actions  were  
reasonable. The adjudicator also didnt think we could tell a business how it acts in this type 
of circumstance.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and says the adjudicators  decision is unfair. He now has 
access to his money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr P would have agreed to 
when the accounts were  opened. And Im satisfied those terms and conditions  say that 
Nationwide can suspend  or cancel the use of an account in certain circumstances. I can see 
that Nationwide placed a block  on the account when  important account information was sent 
back to it. So I dont  think Nationwide made  a mistake in those circumstances and I think  it 
had reasonable security  concerns about  Mr Ps accounts.
I understand that when security measures are applied  to an account,  inconvenience can be 
caused to the account holder. But Im satisfied such measures are designed  to prevent fraud 
and to protect a customers money.  I dont think Mr P told Nationwide that he was living and 
working abroad and so I dont think it acted unfairly or should  have tried to contact him by 
other means. I can see that Mr P now has access to the accounts.
I appreciate Mr P says Nationwides communication needs changing. I have made  clear  that 
I dont think Nationwide  made a mistake  or acted unfairly. But in any event we are not the 
regulator of banks or building societies and so I cant fairly tell Nationwide what its security  
and communication  processes should  be. Im satisfied such matters are for a business to 
decide upon when it exercises its commercial judgement.  
Ref: DRN02983332my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0298333