K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about the sale of a private  medical  insurance policy  by AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited.
background
Mrs A previously had private  health  insurance with AXA under a group policy through  her 
employer. This covered  her and her family.  In 2018,  Mrs A left that policy.
A few months later, Mrs A spoke with AXA about  taking  out a personal policy.  AXA advised 
Mrs A that she could join on the same underwriting basis as the previous group policy. Mrs A 
went ahead  with the policy. 
In 2019, Mrs A made a claim under the policy as her daughter needed a check-up with a 
specialist for a heart problem. AXA turned down the claim.  Although it had been made aware 
of Mrs As daughters heart problem when the policy was taken out, it said Mrs A told it her 
daughter didnt have any further  consultations  planned. AXA said that hadnt been  correct. 
AXA offered  to exclude Mrs As daughters heart  problem from the policy, allowing  her to 
continue paying  the same premium. Alternatively,  it said it would include cover for the heart 
condition, but the premium  would increase. As Mrs A didnt respond, AXA applied  the 
exclusion to the policy.
Unhappy with AXAs decision  to turn down  the claim, Mrs A brought a complaint to this 
service about the sale of the policy. She said shed been led to believe her daughter would 
have the same cover for her heart problem as shed  had under the group policy.  
Our investigator thought Mrs A hadnt answered  AXAs questions accurately when the policy 
was taken out. She said that if Mrs A had answered the questions correctly, then an 
additional premium  would  have been charged. So she thought  AXAs offers  were  
reasonable. 
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matters been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the phone call that took place  between Mrs A and AXA when the policy  was 
sold. 
Mrs A explained to AXA that shed previously been  covered  under a group policy,  but 
wanted to take out personal  cover. AXA confirmed it could offer a continuation of medical  
exclusions. It explained that meant Mrs A could  keep the same medical underwriting  she had 
under the company scheme,  so she could carry over the medical history. Mrs A confirmed  it 
was important to her that she had cover for medical  history. AXA confirmed the benefits and 
limitations might differ to the group  policy, and then explained how the policy worked.  
AXA then asked some  medical questions, in order to decide  whether it wanted to accept the 
risk presented to it. 
Ref: DRN02975602Mrs A told AXA about her daughters heart problem in response to one of the questions she 
was asked. AXA then asked Mrs A about  specialist consultations in the past 12 months   
Mrs A explained her daughter had had a consultation and it was a signed off appointment.  
AXA then asked:
And do any of you have  any treatment,  any consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests  
planned or pending?
Mrs A responded no to this question.  
I think this was a clear question. In response to a previous question, Mrs A had said her 
daughter had been signed off at her last consultation. This would seem to imply shed been 
discharged, however that wasnt the case.  Her daughter required a further  check-up with her 
specialist, and I understand  that appointment had already  been  arranged before the policy  
was taken out.
Because of this, I think Mrs A should  have answered yes to the above question. If shed 
done so, AXAs confirmed it would have charged an additional premium  in order  to provide 
cover for Mrs As daughters heart problem. 
The policy says:
Whichever form of underwriting you joined on, we may have asked you some  medical 
questions before agreeing your cover. We worked  out your terms or your subscription based  
on your answers. If you did not answer fully or accurately, even if this was by accident, we 
may not cover treatment  for the condition.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs A didnt deliberately seek to mislead  AXA, it remains the case  that 
AXA wouldnt have offered cover on the same terms if it had known about the planned 
appointment. Consequently, I think it was reasonable for AXA to offer to either exclude 
Mrs As daughters heart  problem from the cover - thereby allowing Mrs A to continue  with 
the policy for the same cost, or to cover  the condition by applying  the additional premium  it 
would have charged, had Mrs A answered the medical question accurately.
As Mrs A didnt respond to AXAs offer, AXA applied the exclusion to the policy. That seems  
fair to me. However, if Mrs A does decide  she wants to pay the additional premium in order 
to have her daughters heart problem covered, she should contact AXA about this. 
AXA says that even if Mrs A did pay the additional premium to have  her daughters  heart 
problem covered, it still wont cover the appointment with the specialist that Mrs A had 
claimed for. It says thats because the policy doesnt cover routine consultations for chronic 
conditions.
Given that Mrs A hasnt said she wants cover for her daughters heart problem, I dont think I 
need to decide here whether the condition is chronic  or not. However, if she does decide to 
pay the additional premium in order to have the cover for her daughters heart  problem and 
disagrees with AXAs  opinion that the condition is chronic, she should raise her concerns 
with AXA about  this in the first instance.  
Ref: DRN02975603Mrs A has provided a letter from her daughters specialist. This explains  that her daughters  
heart problem has now resolved,  and her specialist hasnt arranged to see her again.  Mrs A 
says that the cost of the policy following renewal  has increased because  AXA has recorded 
that her daughter  has a heart condition when she doesnt. 
Weve asked AXA about this, and it says Mrs As daughters heart problem remains  
excluded - therefore the cost of the policy doesnt  take into account this condition.  
Whilst I appreciate the specialist has confirmed that Mrs As daughters heart  problem has 
resolved - given that it was previously a problem, AXA has decided to keep the exclusion  on 
the policy. That decision is up to AXA.  I understand AXA has advised  Mrs A that one option 
could be for her to take out a new policy and answer the medical questions  again  since her 
daughter no longer has a heart  problem  and doesnt have any treatment or consultations 
pending, Mrs A would be able to answer no to this question. That way cover would be in 
place for the heart problem. Alternatively,  she could take out a new policy on a moratorium  
basis, so that any pre-existing conditions are covered after two years if her daughter  remains 
trouble-free for that time.  
I think AXA has given Mrs A some sensible options for her to consider, in order  to have 
cover for her daughters (previous) heart  problem. It will be up to Mrs A what  she decides to 
do going forwards. 
Mrs A says that AXA led her to believe she had continuation of cover,  when that wasnt the 
case. However, as Ive said,  Mrs A didnt answer the medical questions accurately. If she 
had done, AXA could have explained  that it could only provide  a continuation of cover  
relating to her daughters heart problem if an additional premium  were paid. 
Mrs A says that AXA steered the sales  call to what it wanted, rather  than what she originally 
requested. Having listened to the call, I dont think AXA did this. The various  options  were 
discussed between  the parties, and Mrs A agreed to the cover that was eventually arranged. 
Finally, Mrs A says that AXA agreed to cover  the appointment then changed its mind. I 
havent seen any evidence of that. I understand AXA agreed to cover  a previous specialist 
appointment under the group policy (which  took place in 2018), but I havent seen anything 
to suggest AXA told Mrs A that the 2019 appointment would be covered. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0297560