K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt pay enough  for her written-off van 
after she claimed on her commercial motor insurance policy. Ms J is represented by Mr J.
background
After the van sustained theft damage, UKIs  engineer considered it a write-off. UKI offered  
Ms J £7,800 for it, but Mr J said it wasnt enough. He thought the van was worth  around 
£9,000. UKI said it had referred to the valuations in the national trade guides and it took into 
account the vans low mileage and its good  condition.
One of our adjudicators considered Ms Js complaint. He said UKI was only required  to pay 
Ms J the vans market value. He looked at the valuations given in three  of the four trade 
guides. He found that UKI had offered  Ms J more than the highest valuation set out in the 
guides. So he thought it had acted  reasonably.  
The adjudicator said if Mr J could  provide  something  to show the van was worth more,  hed 
take that into consideration. Mr J didnt do so, but he said it wasnt  possible to buy a similar 
van with the sum UKI had offered.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We think the fairest way to establish the likely market value of a vehicle is to check  the 
valuations set out in the trade  guides.  Theyre based  on extensive national  research  of likely 
selling prices. Consumers  sometimes find adverts with higher asking prices  for what  they 
consider to be similar vehicles, but adverts dont usually reflect  the sum a vehicles sold for.
In this case I think UKI has shown that it took account of the guide prices  and that it listened  
to Mr Js views.  After  a review by a second  engineer, it raised its initial  offer by over £400.  
Our adjudicator checked the trade guide figures  and adjusted  them  to include value added 
tax (VAT), as UKI had done.  The figures he got ranged from £7,191 to £7,560. So I think 
its fair to say that UKI acted reasonably  in offering  Ms J £7,800  for the van.
Mr J was asked to show us why he thought the sum UKI offered wasnt  correct.  Its clear he 
remains convinced that UKI should have offered Ms J more, but in the absence  of any 
evidence to support  his view, I dont think UKI has acted  unreasonably.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0987436