K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs L took out the 
card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think the policy 
was mis-sold. 
I completed a provisional decision on 19 June 2019, which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2003 alongside  a 
store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs L took out the card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint.  FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN04337442my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs Ls says the PPI was added without her knowledge and consent.  Ive considered what shes said,  
but the PPI was taken out a long time ago  about 16 years ago  which is something I have to keep 
in mind when deciding  what I think is more  likely to have happened.
FICL has provided evidence of its internal records to show  that the PPI was taken out over the phone  
in 2003  some time after the store card account had been set up. But unfortunately due to the length 
of time thats  passed there is no call recording for me to listen to  so I cant  say what  exactly  was 
discussed at the time. But as Mrs L already had the credit  in place  I think she wouldve  known the PPI 
was an optional extra and not a condition of having the store card.  FICL say that it wouldve  only 
added the PPI to Mrs Ls account with her consent,  and without any persuasive evidence  to the 
contrary, I think thats likely to have been the case.
So based on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any evidence to the contrary, I think  FICL made it 
clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand if she cant remember  this.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Mrs L had said she was working  less than 16 
hours a week   so she wasnt  eligible for the policy. But Mrs L told FICL  that she had been working 20 
hours a week  at the time. So we contacted her to ask for more information and some evidence that 
shed been working less than 16 hours a week when the PPI was sold to her. In response Mrs L told 
us that she had been  working between 16 and 20 hours a week. And as the eligibility criteria for this 
policy stated Mrs L needed  to be working  at least 16 hours a week, I think she was eligible  for the 
cover.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think the information FICL gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But based on what Ive been told of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so I think it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. And I dont think  better  information  about  the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive seen that our adjudicator also thought the policy  was mis-sold because  Mrs L was close to the 
retirement age at the time. But this was a regular monthly premium policy,  which meant that Mrs L 
couldve cancelled the policy  at any time without  penalty. So the policy  was useful for her while she 
was in work at the time the policy  was sold. 
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Ls outstanding monthly  balance until the 
policy ended, Mrs L stopped being unemployed  or disabled, or the outstanding balance had been 
cleared. And Mrs L wasnt  entitled  to any sick pay from her employer  nor did she have any savings at 
the time. So overall I think the policy  wouldve been useful to her had she been suddenly unable  to 
work, and I dont this information  wouldve changed her mind  about  taking out the policy  at that time.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN04337443For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 3 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0433744