K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy with what The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) has offered to put things 
right following his complaint about the sale of payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mr E took out PPI alongside  a credit  card in 2004. Mr E thinks the policy was mis-sold.
RBS looked at his complaint and offered to put him in the position hed be in if he hadnt  
bought the policy. It worked out it needed to pay him £389.12.
Mr E isnt happy with the offer.
Our adjudicator looked at what RBS had done  and thought it had offered fair compensation 
for mis-selling PPI. But Mr E still had questions  about the way RBS worked out the offer.  As 
the adjudicator  couldnt resolve  the matter informally, the complaint has been  passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As RBS has agreed that the complaint  about the sale of PPI should be upheld, Ive only 
looked at whether the amount it has worked  out is fair.
The PPI was sold to protect a credit card. The PPI premiums were  charged to the account 
and interest was charged on the premiums in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. Mr E repaid  the PPI premiums, with interest, as part of his monthly credit card 
repayments. Mr E needs to get back the extra he paid.
Mr E has asked  whether  RBS looked at PPI on all of his cards. Mr E has also asked how 
long he had the PPI for, and whether there were any hidden charges  for the PPI.
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr E applied for the credit card account in March 2004. Over  the 
time the account  was open, Mr E had three cards:  the first, ending  1734, started in 
March 2004; the second,  ending 7629,  started in September 2006; and the last, ending 
4136, started in August 2008.  RBS says it has full records of what  Mr E spent on these 
cards, and it has used  this to work  out the extra  he paid because  of the PPI.
RBS charged PPI to the account  based  on how much Mr E owed when it produced  his 
statement. When RBS charged for PPI, it appeared as a separate  item on his statements. I 
can see RBS charged  premiums in April,  May,  June, July and August 2004. RBS has sent 
us records showing the PPI was cancelled at this point. Ive also seen statements for 
September and October 2004  showing no premiums  were  charged. Though Mr E says 
premiums may have been hidden in his interest  payments, Ive not seen anything to suggest  
RBS did this.
Based on RBSs records, it says no further PPI premiums were charged to Mr Es three  
cards  and I agree.
Ref: DRN04558992Mr E has questioned this. He notes that theres  no record  showing how or why the PPI was 
added to his card or how it was cancelled  and so he asks how we can be sure that the PPI 
premium was last charged  in August  2004. 
Weve asked RBS how Mr E applied for the PPI. It says its likely PPI was selected on the 
original application  form  but it no longer has a copy of this. It cant now say why the policy  
was cancelled either. Given how long ago Mr E applied  for the policy,  I dont think  this is 
unreasonable. 
Ive carefully considered  the point Mr E raised. But none of the other  information  Ive seen 
suggests the policy continued  beyond  August  2004. And so Im persuaded that the policy 
was cancelled at this point, even if its not now possible to say why.
Ive next looked at RBSs offer. 
RBS says it charged Mr E £142.47  in premiums.  Its worked out that because  of the 
premiums it charged Mr E an extra £71.17 in interest.
RBS has also refunded a £12 fee it charged in April 2007 when Mr Es balance went over his 
credit limit. RBS says this fee was caused  by the PPI  so he gets the fee back,  together  
with any extra interest RBS charged  because of it. 
Mr E has asked  if this means  he was still being  charged for PPI in 2007. Although  RBS 
stopped charging  Mr E for the PPI after August 2004, the premiums and any related interest 
or fees were still part of what  Mr E owed until he repaid the account. The way RBS has 
worked out Mr Es compensation means it thinks he wouldnt have been charged the fee in 
April 2007 if he hadnt been charged  for the PPI in 2004. And then Mr E gets the interest on 
this fee back until he repays the account  in full in 2011. At that point Mr E no longer owes  
more to the account because of the PPI.
As Mr E had to pay more to repay what he owed because  of the PPI, RBS has added simple  
interest  the rate is 8% - to the extra he paid, to compensate  him for the time he was out of 
pocket. This is calculated from the date Mr E paid more until he gets it back. It worked  this 
out to be £205.64.
Mr E has asked  how RBS worked this out. Based on what Ive seen, Mr E made a large 
payment to the account in September 2006.  RBS thinks  this payment was bigger than it 
would have been if Mr E hadnt bought  the PPI. So it worked out interest on the extra  he paid 
from September 2006 until the date of their calculation. 
Mr E repaid  the account  in full in August 2011.  RBS thinks this payment was also bigger 
than it would have  been  and so it has added simple interest to the extra  it thinks Mr E paid. 
As Mr E didnt use his card again  until May 2012,  from that point on his credit card wasnt in 
a different position  because of the PPI  so his repayments would have been the same.
RBS has refunded the premiums, interest and fees Mr E paid because of the PPI. And its 
added simple interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.  So its done 
what Id expect it to do.
In all the circumstances, I think the way RBS has worked out the compensation is fair.
Ref: DRN04558993my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has offered fair compensation 
for mis-selling PPI. If it hasnt done so already, The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc should  bring  
its calculations up to date and pay Mr E.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
 
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0455899