K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions  Limited  mis-sold  him an 
income protection insurance policy.
background
In 2005, Mr B met with an adviser from Quilter and agreed to take out an income protection  
insurance policy. The policy was designed to provide  initial cover of £18,600  a year,  after a 
deferred period  of 26 weeks,  in the event  that Mr B was unable to work  due to illness  or 
injury.
In 2019, Mr B met with another financial adviser who told him that because, as a company  
director, he received only a nominal salary,  he wouldnt be entitled  to the full benefit for 
which he was insured.
Mr B complained to Quilter that the policy had been  mis-sold.
Quilter maintained that it had provided Mr B with full information about his policy at the time 
of sale. It said that if Mr B had considered the policy was unsuitable due to the way he 
received his income, he should have realised  this and made a complaint at that time. It 
therefore believed  he was now too late to bring  a complaint.
Mr B was unhappy at Quilters response. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision confirming that Mr B wasnt too late in bringing his complaint 
to us, meaning we were  able to consider the merits  of the complaint.
Following this, our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld.  He 
was satisfied that Quilter  had recommended  a suitable policy to Mr B based on information 
he had provided,  including about  his income.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He maintained that Quilters adviser hadnt told 
him the benefit  from the policy would be dependent on his level of income. He said his 
income at the time of sale had been recorded  incorrectly. He believed  the adviser should 
have asked for evidence of his income which would have revealed this. As it was, he 
believed he was sold a policy  from which  he could  not benefit.   
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence shows that in 2005 the adviser  completed a fact find in consultation with Mr B. 
This recorded that Mr B was employed  and received an income of £50,000 a year. It also 
recorded that Mr B wanted the adviser  to review  his insurance policies.
The adviser recommended that Mr B take out a new income  protection  insurance policy to 
provide initial cover  of £18,600 a year after a deferred period of 26 weeks and to run until 
Ref: DRN00219332Mr B reached the age of 65. This policy was to replace a more expensive policy offering a 
similar level of benefit and with a similar deferred  period which  Mr B had at the time. There  
was another income protection policy which Mr B held, which  paid a lower benefit of £650  a 
month, and which  the adviser said he should retain. The adviser set out his 
recommendations in a letter which was sent to Mr B.
I consider the advice  was appropriate based on the information which  Mr B had provided in 
the fact find. The recommended policy, in combination  with the existing policy which hed 
been advised to retain,  would have provided  Mr B with an appropriate replacement  income  
which he would have  been eligible to receive in the event hed been unable  to work.
Mr B disputes that he told the adviser  that he had an income of £50,000 a year and says he 
earned a lot less than this. However,  the information  in the fact find is very detailed  and 
seems accurate in all other respects.  I therefore  consider it likely that this is what  Mr B told 
the adviser. Furthermore, Quilter has provided a copy of the application form for the policy  
which repeats the information that Mr B was employed and earned £50,000 a year, and Mr B 
signed the form to confirm  that all the information  was correct.
Mr B says the adviser  should have asked  for evidence of his earnings. I disagree. The onus 
was on Mr B to provide  accurate  answers to the questions he was asked. I consider it was 
reasonable for the adviser  to trust the information Mr B had provided.
Mr B says he wasnt made aware  that the level of benefit payable  under the policy was 
dependent on his income. However, if Mr B had provided accurate information about his 
earnings this wouldnt  have been an issue. But in any case, I see that Mr B was provided  
with a key features document  for the policy and I consider it likely that the relationship  
between earnings  and entitlement to benefit  would have been  spelled out within this. I have 
no reason to suppose  the adviser misled  Mr B.
Furthermore, the complaint from Mr B appeared originally to be on the basis  that the policy 
wasnt suitable because  his income  was mostly  derived from dividends from his business 
rather than a salary; Mr B appeared to believe  that any benefit from the policy was limited  
according to his salary.  In fact, the policy  makes  clear that in Mr Bs case  (he is the sole 
director of his company)  his benefit entitlement  is calculated  taking into account not only his 
salary but also any dividends he pays himself.
Mr B has implied that, even taking into account  dividends, his income is too low to enable 
him to receive the full benefit  under the policy. In fact, Mr B hasnt provided  details  of his 
salary and dividend  income combined  to show that he couldnt receive full benefit under his 
policy. So I cant reasonably conclude that the policy was of no use to him. However, this 
doesnt matter  because Im satisfied  in any case that the policy  was suitable  for Mr B based 
on the information he provided  to Quilter.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00219333
Ref: DRN0021933