K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he was mis-sold  a packaged bank account called a Premier  Added 
Value Account (PAVA) by Lloyds Bank PLC.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr W took out a PAVA in February 2009 which incurred  a monthly fee of £25. 
He says he chose  to take out the PAVA  because Lloyds told him it was the only way to pay 
cheques into a bank  account; and Lloyds  said he needed a fee paying account  to get an 
overdraft, a credit card and a loan.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ws complaint and decided that Lloyds didnt mis-sell the 
PAVA. Mr W disagrees so the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ws complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether or not Mr W was aware the PAVA was optional  and 
whether he chose to take it out.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and I say this for the following  reasons.
At the time of the sale Mr W was over thirty  years  of age. He had a job, a car and a home 
and so I think its more  likely than not he had used  banking  facilities for many  years albeit not 
with Lloyds. 
I think he wouldve been aware that fee free accounts were  available  to pay cheques into. I 
say this because  fee free accounts  were well advertised and freely  available from Lloyds and 
other financial institutions. So I think that if Lloyds  had said to him that he had to take the 
PAVA to pay a cheque into a bank  account,  its more likely than not he would have queried 
this and looked for banking facilities elsewhere.
Likewise if Lloyds had said to him that to get an overdraft, a loan or a credit card he had to 
pay for an account, I think its more likely than not he wouldnt have accepted  this and would 
have looked elsewhere. So although  I dont doubt Mr Ws honest recollections,  I think his 
memory is mistaken on this.
Lloyds has provided  evidence from its records of a form Mr W has signed to accept the 
account, and a note of its conversation with him.
So I think Mr W was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the PAVA.
Ref: DRN04510292Lloyds and Mr W agree that Lloyds  did advise Mr W to take the PAVA out. So, Lloyds 
needed to provide Mr W with sufficient  information about the PAVA to make an informed 
choice. And in recommending the PAVA, it also needed to take adequate  steps  to ensure 
that the PAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Ws circumstances.
The PAVA contained a range of benefits including worldwide annual  family travel insurance  
including winter sports; AA breakdown  cover  including roadside assistance,  relay, and home  
start; mobile  phone insurance; home emergency  cover; airport lounge access; airmiles on 
holiday bookings and a £500 overdraft free of interest  and charges. 
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mr W about  the PAVA but I think it 
wouldve described it in some detail as it was trying to sell the product to him. And I think  it 
would have been of interest to him in his circumstances.  I say this because he says he 
travelled; had a car, a home, and a mobile  phone; and he appears to have been interested 
in an overdraft facility.  
Mr W says he didnt travel very much in the years that followed the sale.  But he says that he 
was travelling 1-3 times a year at the time of the sale.  He took out a credit card at that time 
which had a main  benefit  of collecting  Avios. And he signed a form where he answered  
questions and made a declaration about the travel insurance. So I think  its more likely than 
not that he intended to travel regularly when he took out the PAVA and told Lloyds this.
Mr W says he had pre-existing medical conditions  that prevented him using the travel  
insurance. But the travel insurance didnt exclude pre-existing medical conditions, it only 
asked for them  to be declared.  And in Mr Ws case I think the medical conditions  hes 
referred to wouldve been  covered by the insurance for no additional cost or possibly a small, 
competitively priced additional premium. So I dont think this wouldve put him off taking  out 
the PAVA initially.
Mr W says he didnt use any of the benefits  very much. But once Mr W had the PAVA, it was 
up to him how he used the benefits and he could have cancelled  the PAVA at any point but 
didnt for many years.
I note that Mr W has complained that Lloyds didnt speak to him about his complaint. But I 
can see from Lloyds records that it made  extensive attempts to contact him. And in my view 
this has not prevented him making any significant representations to me on the case.
So in my view the PAVA was suitable for Mr W. And there was no information that he didnt 
receive from Lloyds that would likely  have put him off taking  it out. So I dont think Mr W lost 
out when Lloyds sold him the PAVA.
response to my provisional  decision
Lloyds responded to my provisional  decision to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr W responded and said he had medical issues  at the time of sale that affected his 
decision making. He said he was told the PAVA  was the only way he could get cheques paid 
into an account; he was told several  times there  was no alternative;  he was told that no other 
banks in the area accepted cheques. Mr W also said that he does not own a home.
Ref: DRN04510293my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Ws response to my provisional decision. I was already aware of and had taken 
into account his medical  issues  at the time of the sale and what  he believes he was told 
about paying cheques into an account, so what he has said doesnt change my view of that 
aspect of his complaint.
Mr Ws statement  about not owning a home  seems to conflict  with some of his earlier 
submissions. But even if he didnt own his home, and so couldnt use the home emergency 
cover, in my view there  were enough  elements  of the product that he could have used, 
particularly the car breakdown cover, the travel insurance and benefits, and the overdraft 
facility that made the product suitable for him.
So my conclusions remain  as outlined in my provisional findings above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0451029