K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mr T says 
Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold to him with a credit card account he took out in 1995.  
We know that for a time Barclays issued joint Visa and Mastercards on the same account.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. However, Mr T has already been paid back  some money for the 
commission Barclays received from selling him the PPI.
Mr T still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and has therefore  asked  for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts mis-sale  complaint.
I note some 23 years have passed since Mr T applied  for this account. I think  this is quite 
relevant because he specifically says the PPI was added without his consent  and he would 
never have  agreed  to buy this type of cover.
However, Barclays sent me a copy of his application  form and this clearly shows  he was 
given an option  about having PPI and he selected the yes option and left the no one blank.
Looking at how much  he used his card account, I think the PPI charges would have  also 
shown up regularly on his statements.  Theres no dispute PPI was sold to Mr T, so I think if he 
hadnt wanted it, he would have wanted to know why these charges were  starting  to occur.
I therefore think there is strong evidence Barclays properly obtained Mr Ts consent.
Whilst not entirely clear, Barclays  may have recommended the PPI cover so this means it 
was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable  for Mr Ts situation. I looked  at Mr Ts 
age, job, health  and general circumstances  to help me decide about  this. 
I think that Mr T was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would have been caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  We also now know the cost was 
around £0.70 per £100 of the outstanding  monthly balance on Mr Ts account  which  is 
broadly similar to other PPI policies  sold at the time.
Mr T says he already had sickness protection with his job from that time, implying he didnt 
need the cover. I understand his point, but Im afraid this doesnt  mean  the policy wasnt  
suitable. In the event  of a successful claim for example, Mr T would  have been  able to have 
his outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. These benefits 
were accessible  in addition to any other  means  he already had in place at the time. 
Ref: DRN04143852Taking all these things  into account,  I think the cover was probably  suitable for him.
Barclays also had to give Mr T clear information. I cant confirm  he was told everything he 
should have been told. But I think he was given a choice and he agreed to the policy. I also 
think he would have  been given some documents explaining how the cover worked.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all the costs of the PPI. But Barclays  has 
already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because when the policy  was sold,  it 
expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - it should have  told Mr T about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already paid him for the commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0414385