K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Barclays Bank UK PLC is reporting a mortgage  shortfall  debt on his 
credit file. Mr M says that the mortgage account  (and the Mortgage Current Account - MCA)  
were both included  in his Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). 
The mortgage account was in the joint names of Mr M and a third party. Ordinarily, we 
wouldnt be able to consider a complaint about  a joint mortgage without the consent  of the 
other party. But as this complaint relates  solely to Mr Ms credit file and what  Mr M says is 
the effect of Barclays  actions on him, Im satisfied we can consider the complaint brought  
solely by Mr M
background
Mr M had a mortgage with Barclays. There was also a related MCA, which  is a secured 
overdraft. 
In March 2016 Mr M entered into an IVA with his creditors.  The IVA was concluded in 
April 2017.
In June 2017 Mr M complained to Barclays because it had refused to accept a voluntary 
surrender form to sell the property. He was also unhappy that a field agent had been 
instructed because he considered the mortgage  to have been included  in his IVA.
Barclays explained that it couldnt  accept  a voluntary surrender form signed by only one 
party. The bank also said that the mortgage and MCA werent  included  in the IVA as they 
were secured debts.
Mr Ms insolvency practitioner wrote  to Barclays in July 2017. In summary,  he said that Mr M 
had proposed in his IVA in 2016 that any unsecured shortfall arising from the sale, surrender 
or repossession of any property he owned  was to be included in his IVA. This is known as a 
future contingent liability (FCL).At the time,  the FCL owed to Barclays  was estimated to be 
about £44,500. Before the IVA in 2016  Barclays had been invited to submit an unsecured 
claim for this amount. Barclays had also been sent a proxy form, which would, if completed 
and returned,  have allowed Barclays to vote on the IVA proposal.
The insolvency practitioner explained  that, by not submitting a claim in 2016,  Barclays  had 
acquiesced to, and was bound by, Mr Ms proposal that the FCL on his Barclays mortgage 
would be included in the IVA. The insolvency practitioner said that this meant  that, although 
the IVA didnt affect Barclays right to enforce its security,  it was binding in relation to any 
unsecured shortfall  arising from the sale of the property, no matter when this might  happen.
In 2018 the property was sold by Barclays and the bank  contacted  Mr M about repayment of 
the shortfall debt.  It also reported the shortfall  debt on his credit  file. Mr M complained, 
explaining that this debt was a FCL included in his IVA. Barclays said that it had never 
agreed to this and considered Mr M was liable  for the mortgage shortfall debt. Although the 
bank later decided  to write off recovery of the debt, it was still reporting  it on Mr Ms credit 
file.
Mr M complained to us. He said that the debt should  have been reported  as a default  on 20 
April 2017, when his IVA was concluded. Mr M said this was in line with guidance hed been 
given by the Information Commissioners Office.
Ref: DRN08149822An adjudicator looked at his complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  Mr M was 
unhappy about this. He reiterated the arguments hed made about the debt being a FCL 
included in his IVA. Because the adjudicator  didnt  change  her opinion, the case was 
referred to me for a decision.
provisional decision of 15 August  2019
After considering the complaint, I reached a different decision from the adjudicator. On 
15 August 2019  I issued  a provisional  decision in which  I made the following findings.
Barclays didnt do anything wrong when it refused to accept the voluntary surrender 
form signed by Mr M and not the other account  holder.  But as events have somewhat 
overtaken this in relation  to the IVA and credit file, I dont think  Mr M is pressing this 
point.
The crux of this complaint is whether or not Barclays is bound by the FCL as part of 
Mr Ms IVA.  Having  looked at the Insolvency  Rules, I think that the bank is bound by 
the terms of Mr Ms IVA.
Part 5 of the Insolvency Rules (Northern  Ireland)  1991 sets out the position,  which  
under 5.04(2)(c)(i) required  the proposal  to state  how the debtor intended  to deal with 
secured creditors. Barclays was sent notification as a creditor. Im satisfied the 
insolvency practitioner anticipated the likelihood of a shortfall and took steps to 
include it as a FCL in the IVA.
Barclays didnt respond to Mr Ms IVA proposal. The proposal was approved by a 
majority of creditors.  In the circumstances, Im satisfied Barclays is bound  by the IVA 
even if it didnt agree or submit a dividend claim.  Its position was that of a potentially  
unsecured creditor, given the negative equity and the FCL. So it had the opportunity 
to vote down the proposal and/or make a claim.
Its not the role of Mr Ms insolvency practitioner to explain  the Insolvency Rules to 
Barclays; the bank  has its own legal department which can do this. So if Barclays 
chose not to respond to the insolvency practitioners correspondence,  the bank would 
(or should) have known that this meant it was bound by the terms of the IVA.
In the circumstances, I agree with Mr M that his credit file should reflect  the default of 
the mortgage and MCA as at 20 April 2017,  when the IVA was concluded.
It is disappointing that Barclays continued  to maintain that Mr M remained liable for 
the shortfall debt when  it ought to have  known that this was included  as a FCL in the 
IVA. Although Barclays has said it has now written off the debt and will no longer be 
seeking to pursue Mr M for it, this is something of a moot point, given what  I have 
said above. Barclays cant write off a debt which it shouldnt have been pursuing  in 
the first place.
I think Barclays actions have caused Mr M distress, trouble and upset. I think  
Barclays should pay Mr M compensation of £500  for this. It must also stop sending  
him letters about the shortfall debt.
responses to the provisional  decision
Ref: DRN08149823Mr M responded to say that he agreed  with the outcome but thought  the £500 compensation 
of was too low, given  the impact this has had on his ability to raise  credit elsewhere.
Barclays hasnt provided any further arguments or evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the file afresh and have 
revisited my provisional decision. Ive also taken note of what Mr M has said in response  to 
my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
Although Ive taken  note of the point  Mr M has made  about  being unable to raise credit 
because Barclays was holding him liable for the shortfall debt, Im not persuaded that his 
position have  would  been any different in relation to raising credit  if Barclays  hadnt  made  
the error.  I say this because, if Barclays had accepted the position and not recorded the 
shortfall debt on Mr Ms credit file, his credit file would still have a shown the defaulted 
mortgage from 20 April 2017. On balance, I think that a defaulted  mortgage  would  have had 
an adverse effect  on Mr Ms credit  file too. 
Given this, Im not persuaded that the compensation for trouble and upset should be 
increased. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
. In settlement I direct Barclays Bank  UK Plc to do the following:
amend Mr Ms credit file to show the date of default of his mortgage and MCA account as 
20 April 2017;
ensure its system  is updated so Mr M no longer receives letters about the shortfall  debt;
pay Mr M £500 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0814982