K820x#14Complaint
Mr M brings  this complaint on behalf  of his company  T. 
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) didnt complete an international transfer in a 
reasonable time. He says this led to a financial loss due to a change in the exchange rate.
Background
Mr M requested £20,000 be transferred from Ts business account  to a bank account  in 
Ireland. T paid a £25.00  transaction fee. 
Barclays used an intermediary bank  to make the transfer. A message was sent by the 
intermediary bank asking  Barclays to obtain further  information from Mr M about the transfer. 
Barclays obtained this information from Mr M and passed it to the intermediary  bank.
Mr M phoned Barclays about the payment.  In response Barclays sent messages to the 
intermediary bank to find out if the funds had been deposited in the Irish bank account. And 
it sent a message to the Irish bank to ask if the funds had been received. The funds were  
deposited in the Irish bank account 13 days  after Mr M had requested the transfer.
Mr M complained to Barclays about how long the transfer had taken to complete. The 
transfer was made in sterling. Mr M intended to exchange it into Euros  but the exchange rate 
had changed.  So the money  transferred was worth less in Euros  than if itd been transferred 
when he made the request.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. It said it had to comply  with its legal and regulatory 
obligations and provide  the requested information  to the intermediary bank so the payment 
could be made. And said it had acted in accordance with its terms and conditions,  which  said 
there may be a delay  in making a payment or transfer while checks were being  carried  out. 
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome. And brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint. They thought Barclays had acted in line with its 
processes when asking Mr M for more information about the payment. And they said 
Barclays had acted  in accordance with the terms and conditions.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. He said Barclays was responsible for the delay  in 
transferring the money to the Irish bank  account. As no agreement could be reached  the 
complaints been  passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays is required to have measures  in place to review payments. As part of its review 
process its entitled to ask customers for more information. And its not for this service to 
interfere with the banks processes. Its also fairly common practice for banks to use 
intermediary banks to make international payments where they dont have the necessary  
relationships with banks they are transferring funds to. Thats what  happened  in this case.
Ref: DRN06039992Having looked  at whats happened  here Im satisfied that the delay to the transfer was 
caused by Barclays  and the intermediary  banks complying with their legal and regulatory 
requirements. They couldnt set these aside  to make the payment sooner. So I dont think 
Barclays breached  its terms or acted  unreasonably  when dealing  with Ts payment.
I can see the intermediary bank requested more information from Barclays in order  to make 
the transfer. I can also see this request was made on the same day Barclays processed the 
transfer. This was done two days after Mr M had made the request to Barclays.  The 
intermediary bank sent the request  for more information just before  midnight on a Friday 
evening. Barclays provided this information after it spoke to Mr M on the following Monday. I 
dont think there was an unreasonable delay in Barclays providing  the additional information 
to the intermediary bank.  So I dont think Barclays were responsible  for the delay in the 
payment being  received in the Irish bank account.
Barclays website says a payment  like this should arrive in the beneficiary  account two days 
after the request  is made. The letter given to Mr M when he requested the transfer  says that 
As part of our security checks,  you may receive  a call back from our processing team to 
confirm the payment details. And the terms and conditions  of Ts account says there  might 
be a delay in getting the payment  to its destination, while checks  are being carried  out. So 
Im satisfied the letter and the terms and conditions made it clear to Mr M that delays to a 
payment could occur if checks were  required.  
Mr M wants to be compensated for the financial  loss caused by the change  in the exchange 
rate and impact  caused by the delay to the payment. But for the reasons Ive already 
explained I cant reasonably say Barclays caused Mr M to miss out on a higher exchange 
rate. So I cant make  an award for the difference in exchange which  Mr M claims.
 
T paid a transaction fee. Mr M wants this to be refunded because of the delay  in the 
payment. But Ive already said Barclays werent responsible  for the delay. So I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Barclays to refund  the transaction  fee.
Mr M also wants compensation for the time taken to contact Barclays and the Irish bank 
about the payment. I know Mr Ms unhappy with how Barclays managed this process for 
him. But Barclays wasnt in charge of what happens to the money once it was sent. Theres 
little that Barclays  could do once the money  had left its control  other than asking the 
receiving bank where the money had gone. And I can see it did that. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.  I make no award against 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
T to accept or reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Ref: DRN06039993Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0603999