K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains HSBC  UK Bank  Plc has applied excessive annual interest charges to his 
account. And when  he was in financial difficulties he says it didnt do enough to help him.
background
Mr C says hes been a customer  of HSBC for many years.  For the last few years he hasnt 
ben able to work but is now about to start a new job. HSBC has recently  suspended  
payments and interest on his account but he thinks it should have done more to help him in 
the past. So he wants it to remove interest  and charges from his account.
HSBC said itd applied  the charges on Mr Cs account in line with normal charging policy. It 
said it would  occasionally  allow its customers to exceed  any arranged overdraft limit in 
certain situations. But each decision is taken on an individual basis  which means sometimes 
payments are allowed and others of a similar  amount are declined. 
The adjudicator didnt think HSBC had treated Mr C unfairly. She could see that HSBC had 
given him details of help available  in its contact with him. And when Mr C spoke to the bank 
to discuss his financial situation it suspended interest and charges for a period and 
suggested a possible  repayment plan. 
Mr C said he thought  the charges were excessive and he felt he was under continual 
pressure over the years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says HSBC charged fees on his unauthorised  overdraft which were excessive. But a 
Supreme Court decision in 2009 ruled that these charges cant be challenged  on the 
grounds theyre too high. The approach the court took was that a customer  who goes over 
an overdraft limit or tries to make a payment which would take them  over their overdraft limit 
is really just asking for an informal or unarranged overdraft  which, for a charge,  the bank 
can agree  to or refuse.  And HSBC applied charges to Mr Cs account  in line with its terms 
and conditions. So I cant fairly find it was wrong to make these charges.
But that is only the first part of Mr Cs complaint. He says that when he became unemployed 
the charges HSBC had applied and continued to apply on his overdraft began  to cause him 
problems. And it didnt then do enough  to help him. 
When a customer gets into financial difficulties we expect a business to act positively and 
sympathetically. So I need to decide  if HSBC did that or whether,  as Mr C thinks,  it couldve 
done more for him.
Ref: DRN09616572I can see that HSBC asked Mr C to complete income and expenditure forms to help it 
understand his financial  situation.  And several times it refunded and suspended interest 
payments and it waived  charges. It tried to set up repayment plans. And at times it placed 
holds on its collections process. So I think it has responded appropriately  to Mr C. And I 
cant fairly ask it to do more. 
But I would like to remind HSBC that it still has an obligation towards Mr C to continue  to 
work with him in a positive and sympathetic way to help him resolve his financial difficulties.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0961657