K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining that Ageas  Insurance Limited  has declined a claim he made on his tools  
in transit  policy after his tools were  stolen from his van. 
background
Mr Ss tools  were stolen in July 2018  while his van was parked at his friends house. Mr S 
said hed been  staying there  overnight  and hed left his tools  in his van as he was going 
straight to a job the next day. A witness reported the incident to the police who attended  the 
incident and left a note on his van.
Mr S later reported the theft to Ageas  to claim on his tools in transit policy. But Ageas 
advised him on the call that the claim wouldnt be covered because the van wasnt  parked at 
his home  address, in a secure  in a locked  garage, or in an area secured  by locked gates.
Mr S didnt think this was fair because he said it wasnt clear when the theft took place.  And 
he said there was a witness that had seen his vans window smashed at 7pm.  So he thought 
the theft was likely to have occurred before then.
Ageas said that it would review the matter  again if it received a copy of the polices report  
and the witnesses statements. Mr S was unhappy  with the way Ageas was handling the 
claim, so he asked this service to step in. Another  ombudsman issued a decision saying that 
she thought it was fair for Ageas to decline the claim based on the information it had at the 
time. 
The ombudsman also thought that Ageas was entitled to ask for the police report and she 
didnt think it had caused any delays in chasing  the report.
Since then,  Ageas has received a copy of the police report, but it still didnt think the claim 
was covered under the policy. it said the police report highlighted that a witness  saw the theft 
taking place at around 4:30am. So it still thought that the theft took place  overnight.  
Mr S didnt agree with Ageas  as he said that one of the witnesses saw the window was 
smashed on his van between 6-6:30pm. So he suggested that the theft started then and he 
thinks the thieves  would  have just come  back to get the larger items  at 4am. He also says 
that Ageas should have been more pro-active in pursuing the police report.  And he said that 
the only reason  the police report was received was because he raised a formal  complaint 
with the police.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think it was unreasonable for Ageas to 
continue to say that the claim wasnt covered.  He thought it was fair for Ageas to rely on 
what was set out in the police report to reach the decision it had. And he commented  that, 
while the police report set out that the vans  window  was smashed between  6-6:30pm, there 
wasnt anything to show that the break-in  and theft of the tools took place then.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator as he maintains that the initial  theft was likely to have 
happened earlier and the thieves came  back for the larger items at 4am. So he thinks  Ageas 
should at least  cover part of the claim.  He also said that there were a number of witnesses to 
this incident and he was unhappy that the police hadnt followed up with this in detail.
As Mr S didnt agree  with the adjudicator, the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN02963942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that Im only looking  at Ageas handling  of the claim from the time after 
he first brought the complaint as another ombudsman has already considered his complaint 
about Ageas  initial  handling of the claim.
I naturally sympathise with the situation  Mr S has found himself in, but I cant  say that Ageas 
has acted unfairly in this case. The terms of his contract sets out that Ageas will not accept 
a claim for theft of the Property from an Insured Vehicle left unattended  overnight unless the 
Insured Vehicle has been secured in accordance with the vehicle security requirements  
specified in this Policy.
In addition the Insured Vehicle must  be;
securely closed and locked in a garage; or
parked in an area secured by locked gates; or
parked in the insured  off-road driveway next to a private house in a well lit area.
Theres no dispute that Mr S hadnt parked his van in line with the above requirements.  But 
he disputes that at least  part of the theft didnt take place over night.  Ive taken Mr Ss 
comments into account, but I agree with the investigator that I cant  say it was unreasonable  
for Ageas to come to the conclusion it did, taking into account  the contents  of the police 
report.
I dont dispute  that the police report indicates  the window on Mr Ss van was smashed by 
6:30pm. But there isnt enough to say that some of his tools were  stolen at that time. But the 
police report clearly sets out that thieves did steal equipment from Mr Ss vehicle at around 
4am. Mr S sets out the witness  only saw the thieves  take larger  items.  But that doesnt mean 
they didnt take other items. And I think its most likely his tools were all stolen at the same 
time. So I cant say that it was unreasonable for Ageas  to say that the claim wasnt covered 
under the terms  of the policy.
Ive also thought about whether Ageas took sufficient  steps  to highlight this exclusion to 
Mr S. Its standard industry practice  to highlight key features of an insurance policy  in a 
policy summary document. And I can see that Ageas clearly highlighted this exclusion on 
page two of the policy summary. So Im satisfied  that it took reasonable steps to bring this 
exclusion to Mr Ss attention.
I note Mr S is also unhappy with the length  of time it took Ageas to get the police  report. And 
I agree  that it could  have been more  pro-active in pursuing this. But I dont  think  hes lost out 
as a result, because  the situation  wouldnt  have changed if Ageas had received it sooner  
than it did. So I dont  think Ageas needs  to compensate him for this. 
Ref: DRN02963943my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0296394