K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr D says Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Id like to reassure Mr D that Ive thought about  everything hes said,  even if my decision 
doesnt explicitly reference all his points. Id also like to point out that where information isnt 
available or is inconclusive, Ill make my decision based  on what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened  the balance  of probabilities.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I can see Mr D feels strongly about his complaint, 
and Ill explain why. 
Mr D says he received Barclays credit card application form in the post.  But he then went  
into a Barclays branch to speak to an advisor  about  completing it. He says he did this 
because he is dyslexic  so has difficulty with forms. 
Barclays accept that the sale couldve happened  in this way. And as a result  accept  its likely  
it recommended the policy to Mr D. In turn, I have no reason but to continue  with my 
decision on the basis that the sale took place in this way. 
Mr D says he didnt know he had taken  out the PPI. And he just relied  on what  he was told 
by Barclays advisor when completing  the application form. 
Barclays have given  me a copy of Mr Ds signed  application form. On it theres  a separate  
section for PPI, and this includes  separate questions to say either yes or no to PPI. The 
part to say yes to PPI has been selected.
Mr D has said he just completed what he was told due to his dyslexia. Ultimately,  I cant know 
what happened and what was exactly discussed  during  the meeting, but if Mr D had been 
uncertain about anything he could have  asked Barclays  advisor  for further explanations. Or he 
could have thought about matters and returned at another time to progress  his application. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr Ds said, but on balance I think that having to tick 
separately for the policy ought to have  alerted  him to the fact he had a choice and that he was 
choosing to take out PPI  given he could equally have ticked the no box. 
Having said that, I accept that Mr Ds dyslexia couldve  made things more difficult for him, 
and I sympathise with his situation. But from the evidence  I have, I dont think I can fairly  
decide that its most likely  Mr D was told just to tick certain boxes and therefore didnt know 
he had taken out PPI. This after all is what  I must  be able to do before I can uphold his 
complaint on this point.  
So, weighing everything up, that means  I think its more likely than not that Barclays  made  
Mr D aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and importantly given what  hes 
complaining about, he chose to take it. In saying this I have checked with Barclays  that it 
Ref: DRN03777422doesnt have any more evidence from the sale  which includes, as per Mr Ds request, any 
closed circuit  video footage.  
Mr D says that the fact he didnt  make a claim on the policy is evidence enough that he didnt 
know he had the PPI  and so he didnt know he had taken it out at the time of the sale. But 
Ive already said above what I think  about  Mr Ds likely knowledge of taking out the PPI 
based on the evidence I do have from the sale.   
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on the information  I have about Mr Ds circumstances at the time,  I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover  at the time of the sale. 
I note what Mr D has said about  his health and how it significantly and adversely changed 
after the sale. Im sorry to hear about this  but as our adjudicator explained this happened 
after the sale. So Barclays didnt do anything  wrong  at the time of the sale when it 
recommended the policy  to him.   
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what hes said about the discrepancy 
in dates Barclays have  given him about when the account and PPI closed.  Barclays  have  
given me a screenshot copy of Mr Ds credit  card statement dated in September  2006. The 
balance, credit limit and minimum payment all show as £0.00. I note that Mr D has made  a 
payment in that month which includes the balance of the last closing statement and any new 
transaction between  then and this statement. So Im satisfied there was no outstanding 
balance at this time and the credit card account was closed. That being the case,  no PPI 
payments wouldve been charged  to Mr D going ahead  given this is based on having an 
outstanding balance. 
Its quite possible that Barclays have given Mr D incorrect information about  this as part of its 
investigation into his complaint. But Mr D hasnt lost out materially as a result. 
I also note that there is some confusion about whether dyslexia would be defined  as a 
medical condition  under the terms of the policy. I dont agree,  as does Mr D, that it is. So 
these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Barclays doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr D paid for it. But Barclays has already paid Mr D back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN03777423my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019 
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0377742