K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to her alongside  a credit card. She also complains that Tesco  didnt pay her 
some compensation it said she was owed. 
background
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint about the mis-sale shouldnt  be upheld. In the 
meantime, Tesco made an offer to pay back to Mrs P some of the commission it got from her 
PPI premiums. However, Mrs P had agreed  a debt management plan. Tesco then said that 
because Mrs P still owed it some money, it would use her compensation to reduce the 
outstanding balance on her account.  This is called offsetting. 
Mrs P didnt agree with Tesco.  She said that because it had sold her debt on to a third party, 
it wasnt entitled to offset  her compensation in the manner it proposed. Our adjudicator 
thought what Tesco had suggested  was fair. As Mrs P didnt agree with that view the matter 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P, but I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain 
why below. 
First of all, I need to think about  whether  Tesco mis-sold PPI to Mrs P. I then need to go on 
to look at whether  their decision  not to pay compensation directly  to Mrs P was fair. 
was PPI mis-sold? 
Mrs P told us that she couldnt remember how PPI was sold to her. Ive had the benefit  of 
seeing her application form. It seems  likely  that she applied  for her credit card and PPI at the 
same time by post.  So shed have been able to complete that form in her own time and at 
her own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mrs P would have known PPI was optional and she 
didnt have to buy it if she didnt want it. I can see from the application form that in order  for 
cover to be added  to her account, Mrs P needed to tick a box to say she wanted PPI. And 
she has ticked that box. I think it would have been  clear that if she didnt want  cover,  she 
didnt have to select it. Overall, I think she knew she had a choice about buying  this policy. 
Tesco also had to give Mrs P enough  information  about the PPI so she could decide for 
herself whether  it was a good fit for her needs.  That information had to be fair, clear  and not 
misleading. I dont think  the cost of the PPI is clear from the application form. In fact, its not 
clear from that form that Mrs P would be charged for PPI at all. I dont think Tesco  gave 
Mrs P all of the information  it should  have done  when  she bought this cover. 
So the question  for me now is whether Mrs P would have acted differently if Tesco had told 
her everything it should have done. To help me decide what  shes  likely to have done, Ive 
Ref: DRN05718252looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what  she told us 
about her personal  circumstances  at the time. 
I can see that if Mrs P had to make  a claim on the PPI that 10% of her credit card balance 
would have been repaid  for up to 12 months  for every month she was off work because she 
was sick or if she lost her job. Mrs P told us that shed  have  received  six months  full pay and 
six months half pay if shed been unwell. So it follows that I think the PPI would have 
covered her for longer  than her full sick pay would  have  lasted.  
Mrs P told us she didnt have any other means of making repayments towards her credit  
card if she was out of work. I can see that when she applied for her card that shed made  a 
balance transfer  request  that was worth  around 30% of her annual  salary. So in the absence 
of any other  means  to meet  her repayments, I can see why PPI could  have been  helpful if 
Mrs P lost her job. 
Mrs P told us she was in good health  when this cover was sold to her. So I dont think  shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent  
seen anything unusual  about her employment  circumstances  that would have stopped her 
from making a successful claim if she needed to. 
All of this means  that Tesco doesnt have to refund all of the cost of the PPI. But Tesco got a 
high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should 
have told Mrs P about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair. To put that 
right, Tesco calculated the amount of commission and profit share  that was above  50% of 
the PPI premium - and I think its calculation was fair in this case
paying compensation directly to Mrs P
I said above that the way Tesco had worked out the PPI commission and profit share  refund 
was fair. But the next matter for me to consider is whether Tesco  acted fairly when it decided  
to reduce Mrs Ps outstanding balance, rather than pay the compensation directly  to her. As I 
said above, reducing a balance in this way is called offsetting.
For offsetting to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close  connection between  the 
compensation and the outstanding  debt.  I must  also consider  whether it would be fair for 
Tesco to set-off in this way. Both tests must  be satisfied for me to find that Tesco has an 
equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation against Mrs Ps outstanding debt related to 
her credit card account. 
The PPI sold to Mrs P was directly connected to her credit card account.  Using  the right of 
set-off I have outlined  above, I am satisfied the compensation for the excess  commission  on 
the PPI and the credit card debt are closely connected. They  are both related to the same 
account Mrs P had with Tesco. 
So in principle Tesco may have a right to reduce the debt Mrs P still owes  for her credit card 
debt by the amount of compensation which is a debt Tesco owes  to her.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mrs P was in a debt management  plan and that when 
Tesco calculated her PPI compensation,  there  was still an outstanding balance  related to her 
credit card. But Mrs P said Tesco  had sold that debt to a third party and so the outstanding 
balance was owed  to a different business. In Mrs Ps view, Tesco couldnt then use her 
compensation to reduce the amount she owed to the third party. 
Ref: DRN05718253From the information that Tesco sent to us, I can see that it did sell Mrs Ps debt to a third 
party. Tesco had calculated that Mrs P was due compensation of £531.17  after tax. It told us 
that it would  buy that amount of her debt back from the third party and use her compensation 
to repay  it. 
I appreciate that Mrs P is not happy because Tesco doesnt currently  own the debt. Tesco 
had a right to sell the debt to the third party and it also has a right to buy that debt back  (or a 
part of it) to use the compensation  to reduce  what  is owed under Mrs Ps loan. 
I think its important to say that although  Mrs P was charged for PPI, as there is an 
outstanding balance in respect  of her credit  card, she didnt actually pay for those premiums. 
So if Tesco paid the compensation  directly to Mrs P shed be getting compensation for 
undisclosed commission on premiums  that she hadnt actually paid.  So it is fair that the 
compensation is used  to reduce what is owed.  Doing  so would put the outstanding  balance 
in the position it would  be in if Mrs P hadnt taken PPI. 
In this situation, both Mrs P and Tesco owe each other some  money.  I think  it is fair for 
Tesco to use the money  it owes Mrs P to reduce what she owes  it. I appreciate Mrs P will be 
disappointed with my decision, but I dont require Tesco to take any further action. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. Tesco  Personal Finance PLC has calculated any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. And its fair 
for Tesco Personal Finance PLC to offset  that amount from Mrs Ps outstanding credit  card 
balance.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0571825