K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) failed to respond to his claim under his 
travel insurance policy for loss of enjoyment of his holiday, after the airline  didnt get his 
suitcase to his destination.  
background
Mr C went away  on a four-day city break abroad. When he reached his destination, his 
suitcase hadnt  arrived. Mr C said the airline  told him his suitcase would arrive the following 
day, but he didnt receive  his suitcase at all during the trip. It wasnt returned to him until he 
arrived back at the airport in the UK. 
While on holiday, Mr C bought essential  items such as toiletries  and underwear  due to being 
without his suitcase.  
Mr C made  a claim on his policy. He claimed for the items hed bought, and for his loss of 
enjoyment. He said the loss of enjoyment was due to being without his camera,  shoes, 
trousers and winter  coat, which he said were all in his suitcase. He said being without these 
items meant he couldnt explore as much as he wanted to, take photos, or eat at restaurants 
with a dress  code. He also said hed lost hours  out of his trip due to time spent reporting  the 
loss of his suitcase and attempting to have it located. 
Zurich paid the claim for the items Mr C had bought. Initially it only agreed to pay for the 
items for which Mr C had provided  receipts.  Mr C complained and Zurich  agreed to pay the 
full amount due for the essential items. But it didnt meet Mr Cs claim for loss of enjoyment 
of his holiday. 
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mr C brought his complaint to us. An investigator looked  
into what had happened, and said they didnt think Zurich had done  anything wrong. Mr C 
disagreed, and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im of a similar view to 
the investigator, which I know will be disappointing to Mr C.
Mr Cs policy  provided cover  of up to £300 for replacement essential items in the event that 
his personal possessions were delayed. Zurich  has paid Mr Cs claim for the items he 
bought while  he was without his suitcase.  And Im satisfied  that this has been dealt with 
correctly. 
Mr C didnt receive his suitcase until he arrived back in the UK. I can understand that Mr Cs 
holiday would have  been significantly impacted due to him being without items hed 
specifically packed  for his trip. And I see how this would have lessened Mr Cs enjoyment of 
his holiday. 
Ref: DRN08745752However, travel insurance generally  doesnt cover  loss of enjoyment.  And in this case  there 
is no cover  under any section of the policy for loss of enjoyment as a result of a suitcase not 
arriving at the policyholders destination at all. Because of this I dont think Zurich  has acted 
unfairly in declining to make  any further  payment to Mr C in respect of his claim.  
I appreciate Mr C has mentioned that we may have made an insurer  pay in similar 
circumstances in another case, but I can only consider his case and decide with I think is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of it. And, its rare for two cases to be exactly the 
same in terms of circumstance and policy cover, especially as the extent of the cover 
provided can be different  depending on who the policy is with. 
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0874575