K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained that Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) hasnt fairly 
assessed his like claim  against BBVA  under s.75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act (the 
CCA).
background
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019 upholding the complaint. A redacted copy  
is attached and forms part of this decision. 
In summary  I said that there was fraudulent misrepresentation  by ILG. Mr T relied  on it and 
suffered a loss as a result. Therefore BBVA should compensate him for his like claim to it 
under s.75 of the CCA,  as set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr T accepted my provisional decision.  
BBVA responded to say that it acknowledged  the content of the provisional decision but 
does not agree with the level and scope of the proposed compensation. In particular, BBVA 
did not agree with the proposed compensation for the timeshare Mr T gave up to ILG. It said 
that Mr Ts original complaint to the bank claimed only reimbursement of the purchase  price 
paid to ILG. The loss of timeshare was not part of the scope  of the original  complaint and so 
adding a financial award to the scope of the original complaint  is not fair and reasonable. 
BBVA also said that the transaction  in relation to the timeshare was not financed  by the 
credit card and so BBVAs position is that Section 75 does not apply to it.
BBVA further said that the original complaint did not include  any claim for interest on the 
reimbursement of purchase  price. So the inclusion  of interest  is adding  to the scope of the 
original complaint and therefore not fair and reasonable.  It said that BBVA did not itself 
commit any wrongdoing, yet the proposed rate of interest and the period  in which  the interest 
proposed to occur seems likely  to be in excess of what would be awarded by a successful 
court claim against BBVA. It considers the interest set out is too high in the circumstances 
and the proposed start date for the payment  of interest is too onerous. 
BBVA said that it considers it reasonable for the interest to start from the date of original 
complaint in July 2015 and for the interest  to be payable at 4% simple interest, being a rate 
which Mr T could  have  reasonably achieved if he had put the money  into an ISA or similar 
investment had the bank made  the refund to Mr T at that time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned in the provisional decision,  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
Ref: DRN02505752In this instance I have  concluded that there was fraudulent misrepresentation by ILG. So, by 
way of fair remedy Mr T should be, as far as practicable, placed in the position  he would be 
in had the misrepresentation not been made. 
I am satisfied that but for the misrepresentation by ILG, Mr T would  not have entered into the 
contract with ILG. And he would not have  given up his timeshares to ILG. As explained in my 
provisional decision, Mr T had advertised the sale of his timeshares at the time and but for 
intervention by ILG he most likely would have sold his timeshare and received some sales 
proceeds. I consider that he had lost that as a result of the misrepresentation by ILG. He 
would therefore  be entitled to recover this loss as a matter of law; but in any event I think it is 
appropriate to allow for it in arriving  at fair compensation.
I do not agree with BBVA that interest should only be paid from the date of Mr Ts complaint.  
As mentioned above, what I am considering  is BBVAs liability under a like claim Mr T had 
against the supplier. So it is fair that any interest on the loss suffered by Mr T because  of the 
misrepresentation by the supplier is paid from the time the loss arose, not when he first 
complained to BBVA.
As regards  the use of 8% simple interest p.a., it is in line with our approach to compensate 
the consumer  for being deprived  of the money which otherwise would have been available to 
them. It is difficult to say what  the cost is to someone of being  deprived of money. For many 
people, it might have influenced  a range of decisions about  spending  and borrowing over a 
period of time. 
Also, it doesnt just reflect the lost opportunities to save  or invest. Someone might also have 
gone without other  things  they really needed  or might have benefited from, because they 
didnt have the money. It is simple interest and not the compound  rate and reflects the 
current statutory interest rate on judgment  debts. 
 
BBVA has also said that in his initial complaint Mr T hadnt asked compensation for his lost 
timeshare or asked for interest on the payment he made to ILG, though I note that Mr T did 
raise the issue of lost timeshare later during our investigation. 
In my view, consumers arent always able to articulate the losses they incurred and/or arent 
fully aware of what remedies are available to them under Section 75. In any case, I need to 
determine the complaint by reference  to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  In this instance  it is my opinion, for the reasons given, that the 
compensation set out in my provisional  decision is fair in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that this complaint should  be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, BBVA 
should:
Refund the total payment Mr T made  to ILG.
Pay simple interest  on this amount at 8% p.a. Interest should be paid from the dates of 
the two payments Mr T made  to the date of settlement.
Pay £2,300  to Mr T for the timeshare he gave  up to ILG.
Ref: DRN02505753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN02505754Copy of the provisional decision
Complaint
Mr T has complained that Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria  SA (BBVA) hasnt fairly assessed his 
like claim against BBVA under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act (the CCA).
background
Mr T owned a timeshare  from around 1997 jointly  with his wife. In early  2008 he listed his 
timeshare online for sale. He was then cold called by Incentive  Leisure Group  UK Limited (ILG). 
He says that ILG told him during the call that it was aware  he had listed the timeshare  for sale 
online. It said that it had a corporate buyer keen to purchase the timeshare. However, to sell it, 
he had to come for a meeting at ILGs premises.
Mr T attended the meeting  with ILG in mid-May 2008. He says that at the meeting  he was subjected 
to several hours of hard sell sales tactics. He says that he was advised by ILG to trade-in his 
timeshare and enter into a contract with it and purchase a membership with Designer Way Vacation  
Club (DWVC) at a cost of around  £9,000.  
On entering into the contract with ILG, he would get a certificate  from Reclaim Ltd (Reclaim). The 
certificate would entitle  him to receive a payment,  in 51 months  time, from the Cash Bond (Reclaim)  
investment scheme offered by Reclaim.  He was told that the cashback scheme was guaranteed to 
pay no less than 70% of the cashback certificate value of £18,195, and that it would  effectively make 
up for the sale value of his timeshare and the cost of the DWVC membership.
At the meeting Mr T signed a contract with ILG and paid just under £9,000. Of this amount, about 
£1,800 was paid using his BBVA credit card. The balance was paid by bank transfer.  Mr T says that 
at the meeting he handed  over to ILG, documents pertaining to his timeshare. He thinks  that 
following the meeting the timeshare was sold or disposed  of by ILG because  the original timeshare 
company stopped asking him to pay the annual  maintenance  fees. He did not use his timeshare 
after entering  into the agreement with ILG.
In June 2008  he received a certificate from Reclaim.  It referred  to contract  number ending 606 
which was the contract between ILG and Mr T. It stated  that the supplier was ILG and quoted 
maximum cashback amount of £18,195.
In September 2012, at the end of 51 months, Mr T made a claim for the cashback amount. His 
claim was accepted  as valid and he was advised of this. Under the terms,  the cashback payment 
should have been made no later than 150 days from the date he was told that his claim  was 
accepted. But he didnt hear anything further and has not received his cashback.
As I understand it, ILG was dissolved on 28 September 2010.  I also understand  that the 
Spanish authorities applied for the winding up of Reclaim Ltd in December 2012. The company 
was placed into liquidation  on 31 March  2014.
In July 2015  Mr T made a claim to BBVA  under s.75 of the CCA,  saying that the supplier had 
misrepresented the service  provided and that the contract  had been breached as the cashback 
was not paid.  Mr T also said that the promised holiday  savings through DWVC were 
unobtainable as the availability was restricted and the options were  not cheaper as they were 
made out to be.
BBVA said that Mr Ts claim was time barred. It considered the date of the dispute to be the 
date of the meeting in May 2008. So, it said that the time for making  the complaint  expired in 
Ref: DRN02505755May 2014. It did not address any part of the claim made by Mr T. Unhappy with its response, 
Mr T brought  his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision to address BBVAs objection to us considering Mr Ts complaint.  
In summary I found that Mr T brought his complaint  to us against BBVA within  the time limit set 
under our rules.  I also found  that he made his claim to BBVA within the relevant  limitation 
period under the Limitation Act. I said that I was making my decision in this regard based on 
assumed facts. I clarified that I was making  no findings at that time on whether there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  as that goes to the heart of whether  a claim  under  s.75 
is valid and BBVA hadnt looked into this.
I further said that given the circumstances  of the case, even  if Mr Ts claim was time-barred  
under the Limitation Act (which I didnt  believe  to be the case), it would  not be fair on part of 
BBVA not to consider his like claim  against it.
Both parties responded to my decision. Mr T said that he did not have  any further information  to 
add. BBVA  did not make  any new argument in relation to the time limits, rather  it assessed Mr 
Ts claim and explained why it felt his claim  wasnt valid. In short it said that it did not think 
there was any evidence to show that there was any misrepresentation  or breach of contract  on 
part of ILG.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that Mr Ts complaint is one we can consider. I also remain of the view that he 
made his claim  to BBVA within the relevant limitation  period under  the Limitation  Act, which  I will 
elaborate on later in this decision.
In response to my provisional decision, BBVA pointed out that the Incentive  Leisure Group UK 
Limited was dissolved in 2010 and not 2012 as I initially  understood to be the case. It appears that 
the company which dissolved in 2012 was another, related company, Incentive Leisure Group 
based in Gibraltar. I thank BBVA for clarifying this. I have revisited my findings  in light of this and 
this hasnt altered my conclusions  about  various time limits. 
Following BBVAs response, I now need to consider whether it has acted fairly in not upholding Mr 
Ts s.75 claim.
relevant consideration
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  When  considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of 
practice; and, where  appropriate,  what  I consider to have  been good industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes Section 75 of the CCA, which provides protection  for 
consumers for goods  or services  bought using  credit. It states:
If the debtor  under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with 
the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor.
As Mr T paid part of the agreement through his credit card, BBVA  agrees  that s.75 applies to this 
transaction. This means Mr T could  claim  against BBVA  - the creditor - for any misrepresentation 
Ref: DRN02505756or breach  of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have claimed against the supplier. 
So, I have taken s.75 into account when deciding  what is fair in the circumstances  of the case.
The FCA principles apply to all authorised  firms including  BBVA. Of particular  relevance to this 
complaint is:
Principle 6
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  fairly  
So, I have also considered whether BBVA treated  Mr T fairly.
was there a misrepresentation?
Mr T listed his timeshare online for sale. He was then cold called  by a representative  of ILG and was 
told that the company had a corporate buyer keen  to purchase  his timeshare and that he had to 
attend a meeting in order to finalise the details  of the sale. A meeting with ILG was fixed for mid-May 
2008.
Mr T has provided us with a letter,  headed  Premier Invitations. The letter doesnt specifically 
indicate who issued it but on reviewing it I am satisfied that it was issued by ILG (or its 
representative). I say this because  the letter confirmed a date as the appointment  date and this 
was the date of the meeting  between Mr T and ILG. Further, the letter  quoted a reference number 
ending with 606 which was the contract number  between ILG and Mr T.
In that letter ILG stated that it had helped timeshare  owners dispose of their ownership and 
achieve  up to 100%  of the clients asking  price and in some cases  more.  
It said: we are confident that we can help you.This is demonstrated by the fact that as high as 
87% of the clients we have seen, have taken  up our COST  FREE advice and have successfully 
disposed of their membership. 
It further said: No doubt you paid hard earned money  for your Timeshare;  we may now help you 
turn that membership back into money. If you are serious about not just disposing of your 
Timeshare at any price,  for example ten percent of what you paid, but are interested  in pursuing a 
course of action to achieve  up to 100%  of your asking  price back  and in some cases  more, THEN 
WE CAN HELP YOU!
In my view this letter clearly gave the impression  that ILG would help Mr T dispose of his 
timeshare, and at a substantial price. Though the letter  used the words up to 100%, the letter 
said that if Mr T was someone who didnt  want to settle for a low sale price, then it could help him. 
In my view the implication here is that ILG would  help him achieve  a very high percentage of the 
asking price, if not 100% (or more). 
Mr T says that at the meeting he was asked to trade-in  his timeshare. He says he was told that the 
membership with DWVC would replace his existing timeshare and give him luxury  holidays. He 
says that though he was required to pay about £9,000 for it, he was told that he would receive  
£18,195 in 51 months time from the cashback  scheme. He was told that the scheme  was 
guaranteed to pay no less than 70% of the face value but the funds would gain interest over a four 
year period and could  in fact pay out 100%, if not more. Mr T says that he went  ahead with the 
agreement with ILG on that basis. 
I find Mr Ts testimony credible. I am satisfied that that Mr T attended the meeting with ILG with the 
intention to sell his timeshare and get a good amount  in return. He did not go with the intention to 
buy the DWVC membership.  This is consistent  with the appointment letter referred above which 
made no reference to DWVC but only about him disposing his timeshares at a good price. So, 
Ref: DRN02505757something must have  happened at the meeting which made him pay nearly £9,000 and enter into 
a contract with ILG. 
Mr T says that at the meeting he handed over the documents pertaining  to his timeshare to ILG. 
He thinks that following  the meeting the timeshare  was sold or disposed of by ILG because the 
original timeshare company  stopped asking  him to pay the annual maintenance  fees. 
I think  that there is no reason why he would  give up his timeshare and not only receive nothing  in 
return, but in fact pay ILG nearly  £9,000 for the DWVC scheme in which he had no prior interest.  
This was unless, as he says,  he was led to believe  by ILG that in 51 months  time he would be 
able to make  a substantial amount through the cashback that would make up for the sale of the 
timeshare and the purchase price  of the DWVC membership. 
Further, Mr T has given us a copy of Sales  invoice  from ILG. It is not dated  but Mr T says it was 
given to him at his meeting with ILG. I see that in the document  it says Balance monies due 
07/06/2008. So, I am persuaded  that it was more  likely to have been given to him at the 
meeting in May 2008.
This invoice matches what  Mr T says,  in that the membership with DWVC would replace his 
existing timeshare and that though he was required to pay around £9,000 for it, he would receive  
£18,195 in 51 months time from the cashback  scheme. Though the money  was to be paid after 51 
months time,  I can see how that could be an attractive proposition for Mr T. On paper  he could get 
£9,200 for his timeshare (albeit after 4 years)  when generally the resale value of the timeshares 
tends to be low.
Mr T has also said that he only used the holiday membership once  for a flight  to London and found  
that the membership offered  no real savings. He tried to contact DWVC about  this at the time but 
nothing came  of it. He says he didnt pursue  it further because his main interest was in the cash 
rebate. In my view this lends further support to his testimony that he believed  he was going to 
receive a considerable sum from the cashback scheme, which would compensate him for the 
membership in any case.
So, taking everything into account, I am persuaded by Mr Ts testimony in relation to how the sale 
took place and what he was told by ILG at the meeting.
However as noted earlier, Mr T received  no payment in return for giving up his timeshare, and 
despite his cashback  claim being accepted as valid, he received no cashback. So, I have 
considered whether there was misrepresentation  on part of ILG.
In my view ILG sold a package  to Mr T. ILG led Mr T to believe that it would help him sell his 
timeshare and get a high sale value. To achieve this, he had to trade-in  his timeshare and enter into 
a contract with ILG for DWVC membership. This in turn would entitle him to take part in the Reclaim 
scheme which in 51 months time would return him substantial cash that would  make up for the sale 
price of the timeshare and DWVC membership.
So what were the prospects  of Mr T achieving this through ILGs  proposal?
Mr T has provided us with a copy of Reclaims  terms and conditions. The terms state that the 
supplier (in this case ILG) will meet the cost of the promotion by paying  a percentage of the 
maximum amount  as shown on the certificate.
It is not at all clear  how much percentage ILG was required to pay. Thus, for example, if ILG paid 
only 5% of the cashback amount to Reclaim, it is difficult to see how Mr T would have got the 
maximum amount  from Reclaim.
Not only that, only 80% of this unknown  percentage was to be kept aside for the cashback 
payment. So the pot available for cashback was reduced even more.  Then there were conditions 
Ref: DRN02505758which Mr T had to fulfil to become a successful  claimant.  The terms further say that the amount a 
successful claimant  would  get depended on the number of other successful claimants. This 
clearly was another unknown  factor.  And finally, it said that from the amount  available to pay to 
successful claimants  there would be a deduction  of 5% to cover settlement fees.
In my view its not at all clear  from the terms as to what exactly Mr T would  get by way of cashback.  
There were  several unknown factors. Given the way the terms were  set out, it seems to me that it 
was very doubtful whether  Mr T would get full or even a substantial percentage of cashback.  On the 
contrary I consider  that ILG varyingly led him to believe that he would  get back  a substantial  amount  
if not 100%.
In this regard,  I have  also taken into account the submission made  by Mr T about a court case in 
June 2009 brought by West Berkshire Trading  Standards against ILG.
As I understand it - following a number of complaints from consumers about  ILG, in June 2009 West 
Berkshire Trading Standards took legal action against it. The complaints were  typically along  the 
lines of what Mr T has said in this case. There were over 30 charges including eleven  charges  of 
fraud. The fraud charges  included lying about  the cashback scheme  and promises made by ILG to 
consumers as to how much they could  get from it. During  the trial at the Reading magistrates court,  
ILG pleaded  guilty to the eleven counts of fraud. ILG were fined  almost £29,000 together with costs of 
around £26,000.
I also note that following this, in August 2009, ILG applied  to be voluntarily struck off and 
eventually was dissolved  in 2010.
BBVA has said that the cashback payment  was not made to Mr T because  Reclaim was wound up 
on the back of the proceeding brought by Spanish authorities. It says that ILG could not have 
known in 2008 that Reclaim would not be able to honour its obligations  four years later due to 
action taken by Spanish authorities.
This contradicts what the ILG directors seem to have admitted to in the above court  case. Further,  
even if Reclaim hadnt been  wound up, it was not at all clear what  Mr T would get back  from the 
scheme, as I explained earlier. In fact, in the court proceedings brought  by the Spanish authorities 
for the compulsory winding up of Reclaim Ltd (in view of its concerns  about  the Reclaim  scheme), it 
was stated  that typically  the supplier would transfer only 12.5% of the purchase price  to Reclaim. 
Reclaim will retain  2.5%  of the purchase price for itself and only the rest would go into a pot for 
potential future payment to qualifying certificate holders.
It is not clear whether this is what had happened in this case but seems more  likely. If so, I cant  see 
how Reclaim  would have been able to pay back 100%  (or even 70%) to Mr T out of only 10%. This is 
something ILG knew or ought to have  known.
Then there was the action taken by the Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT). As I understand it, in 
December 2010 the OFT issued High Court proceedings against Incentive  Leisure Group Limited  
(the company that was based in Gibraltar), a few connected companies and a few individuals, at 
least one of whom was also a director of ILG UK. It should be noted that by the time OFT initiated 
its proceedings  the UK company was already dissolved.
The OFT explained that central to its allegations were business models which it alleged involved 
the traders  inviting consumers to attend  a sales presentation which they believed was about  how 
they could sell an existing  holiday timeshare to the traders,  but ended up buying  a product such 
as an expensive holiday club membership, with complex  terms involved  in recovering the cost of 
the holiday club, or agreeing to join what appeared  to be a pyramid scheme on payment of a 
significant fee by the consumer.
The OFT also alleged that the traders caused consumers  to think that they would get the value 
of their timeshares back via a reclaim scheme, when  this was in fact not the case.
Ref: DRN02505759In 2011 the OFT obtained interim enforcement orders and in 2012 final enforcement orders against 
some individuals and companies named in the proceedings.  No order was obtained against ILG (the 
Gibraltar company), because it went into creditors voluntary liquidation in Gibraltar on 21January 
2011 and was dissolved on 16 January 2012. Amongst other  things,  the orders prohibited the 
companies and the individuals  from engaging in misleading sales practices when dealing with people  
who want to dispose of their timeshares.
Though the proceedings  were brought against the Gibraltar company, in my view, the setup  which 
concerned the OFT and the allegations made by it against ILG Gibraltar (and others)  are almost 
identical to the set up and allegations made here in this case. Also, in the court proceedings against 
Reclaim Ltd brought by the Spanish authorities, it was stated that ILG had very little presence in 
Gibraltar with its activities being conducted mainly from the UK. So, I think  that as part of cumulative 
evidence in deciding whether or not there were  misrepresentations by ILG this should  also be taken  
into account.
Mr T also says that the promised holiday savings through DWVC were unobtainable as the availability 
was restricted  and the options  were  not cheaper as they were made  out to be. I have no reason to 
doubt his testimony. The fact that he used the membership only once suggests to me that he did not 
find the membership  as beneficial as he was told by ILG. On balance, I consider that there was 
misrepresentation of part of ILG in this regard  as well.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider the benefits of Mr Ts contract with ILG were 
misrepresented by ILG. As I have  explained  below,  my view is that the misrepresentation about the 
cashback was made fraudulently.
was the misrepresentation claim made in time?
The next question for me to consider is whether Mr Ts claim  was made in time.
As mentioned  in my previous provisional  decision,  misrepresentation is an action founded in tort, 
and so the time limit in s.2 of the Limitation Act 1980 applies. It is actionable only on damage.  In 
cases like this, given the nature of the complaint, I consider that the damage occurs when  the 
financial loss arises as a result of the relevant transaction.
Establishing when the loss occurred  in matters where  misrepresentation is alleged  is a fact 
sensitive exercise. In this case I think that Mr T initially  suffered damage when he entered  into the 
contract with ILG.
I say this because he agreed to pay nearly  £9,000 for a package of benefits which  he was 
promised by ILG - in particular the cashback. However,  for the reasons  already explained,  it seems 
clear that the benefits of the cashback scheme and the DWVC  membership were misrepresented. 
As a result, I think it is reasonable  to conclude that Mr T suffered actual damage on entering into 
the contract. So, in my view, the limitation period  would run from the date of the contract, so from 
16 May 2008. This would mean  that the limitation period  expired  before Mr T made  his claim.
However, Mr T may able to rely on two extensions to the limitation period under  the 
Limitation Act:
 s.32, in cases of fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake
 s.14A, in cases  of misrepresentation under common law (i.e. negligent misstatement)
Mr T claims  that ILG made fraudulent misrepresentations  to him in relation  to the operation of the 
cashback scheme.
ILG had in fact admitted to eleven counts of fraud in the court. I appreciate that Mr Ts case wasnt 
one of those considered in that proceeding. However, what ILG appears to have admitted to were  
conduct concerns raised in Mr Ts complaint and at around  the time he was sold the contract by ILG. 
Ref: DRN025057510So, I consider, on balance, that Mr T was also subjected to fraudulent misrepresentation by ILG.
That means under s.32 of the Limitation Act, the six-year  time limit will not start to run for the 
purposes of limitation  until Mr T has discovered  the fraud or could have discovered it if he acted with 
reasonable diligence.
As explained  in my provisional  decision, under s.75, Mr T has a like claim against BBVA. I think  
this means that Mr T has the same cause of action against BBVA as he does against ILG and so 
he has a claim under  s.75 for fraudulent  misrepresentation against  BBVA, although  I acknowledge 
that BBVA was not involved in the misrepresentation.
It isnt entirely clear when Mr Ts claim  was first made to BBVA. The earliest  evidence I can see of 
this is a letter  from Mr Ts representative to BBVA  dated 21 July 2015. However, Mr T recently  told 
us that he thought his representative contacted BBVA even earlier than that.
Unfortunately, the representative is no longer working  for Mr T and is not authorised to as well. 
So, it is difficult to know exactly what happened.  BBVA  can confirm to me if it is the case whether 
Mr T or his representative  contacted  it before July 2015. Nevertheless, for reasons  I explain 
below I consider that Mr T made  his claim within the time limits even if I assume  that he first 
made his claim  in July 2015.
In my view Mr T was sold a package by ILG. It told him that if he pays £x, in return: (a) it would  
dispose of his timeshare  for a high value though he would get back  the sale proceeds later only,  
through the cashback (2) he could get discounts through DWVC membership and (3) after 51 
months on his submitting  a valid claim he would  get at least  a large  percentage of the cashback if 
not 100%.
There is a confirmation letter signed by Mr T dated the day of the meeting.  It said that it is 
confirmation that upon  completion of contract (i.e. once he made the remaining payment), he will be 
issued with a Reclaim certificate to the value of £18,195. It further said that if he followed the terms 
and conditions,  he would  redeem from 6% to 100%  of the certificate value.
A cashback certificate was later sent to him after he made the full payment. On the front page it 
stated that Mr T would get a maximum of £18,195. At the back,  in small print, it was stated that 
Reclaim guarantees that the minimum amount  each  successful  claimant will be 10% of the 
maximum amount  and no certificate  holder may receive  more than 100%.
 
Thus, it was the case that ILGs confirmation letter  and the cashback certificate stated that Mr T 
would get between 6%-10%  to 100%  of the certificate value.
On the other hand, Mr T said that he was told at the meeting that he would get at least 70% of 
maximum cashback  amount.
It should be remembered that ILG portrayed itself as the expert in this area. In its letter to Mr T it 
said that it was a company with almost two decades of experience and one of its greatest 
achievements had been  in advising our clients  on how to successfully dispose  of their timeshare. 
So, it was not unreasonable  that Mr T relied  on what ILG told him at the meeting. It should also be 
noted that these documents still stated that Mr T could receive up to 100%  and prominently 
displayed the full cashback amount.
So, I am not persuaded that Mr T ought  to have suspected any fraud,  at the time of sale. Also, it 
was the case that his timeshare  company stopped asking him for annual  maintenance charges. 
So, if anything, that would have made Mr T think that the package was working as he was told.
Soon after, it seems that Mr T tried to make some holiday bookings through his DWVC membership. 
He was offered  some  deals but he says that he found those deals not to be of great value compared  
to what  was available elsewhere. So, he decided not to use them. He told us that he tried to contact 
DWVC, they werent  responding but he didnt  bother to pursue them, as his main objective was to 
Ref: DRN025057511get the cashback. He said he was hoping  to get the cashback in five years time to fund his sons 
study and so he wasnt  too worried  about  the lack of great deals for his holidays  from DWVC.
I find his testimony  credible.  Firstly, it was not the case that the DWVC scheme didnt  exist at the 
time. It was just that he didnt find the offers attractive as he was led to believe.
Secondly, his main interest was in disposing  of the timeshare and receiving  the cashback. As noted 
earlier, by that point,  he thought that ILG had disposed of the timeshare.  And the cashback was 
due only a few years  later.  In the circumstances  I dont think that the lack of good deals from the 
DWVC membership  was sufficient  for me to conclude that it should have  put Mr T on notice of the 
misrepresentation about  the cashback, which was not due to be paid until a few years later.
Then, after 51 months, he promptly put in his cashback  claim. Reclaim  responded to say that his 
claim was valid and accepted. Reclaim didnt say how much he would get but it did say his claim 
was accepted. I dont think he would  have  suspected anything at that point either   things were  
progressing as he expected.
The notice confirming that the claim was valid is dated 18 September  2012 and I believe he was 
told of this immediately. According to the terms and conditions, Reclaim  had a further  150 days to 
pay out the claim. This means  any cashback  amount should have  been paid by no later than 15 
February 2013.
Mr T says that it was only after this deadline and when he still got no cashback he realised  
something was wrong which led him to discover that ILG made fraudulent misrepresentations to 
him.
For the reasons  explained,  I am satisfied that it was only after this date that he actually discovered 
ILGs misrepresentation  in relation to the cashback. I also consider, this was the earliest  point when  
Mr T realised he had lost out considerably  and so could  reasonably  have been prompted to explore 
what went wrong  - which  means, in my view, this was the earliest point when he could have, with 
reasonable diligence, discovered  the fraud.
So, this in turn means, in my view,  the time limit under s.32 of the CCA could have  started at the 
earliest from February 2013 and Mr T made his claim  well within  six years of it.
As my provisional conclusion is that the time limits under s.32 apply in this case, I have not 
considered the application of s.14A.
Was there a breach  of contract?
BBVA suggests  that ILG entered into the contract as marketer and the supplier was actually  
Timelinx, LLC. However, the contract clearly states  that the agreement  was between ILG and Mr and 
Mrs T, and the payment was made to ILG. Further the cashback certificate  quotes ILG as the 
supplier. So, I do not accept BBVAs position.
However, it is not at all clear to me from the submissions  as to what  happened to the contract 
following the dissolution of ILG in 2010. It is also not clear what happened  to Timelinx or the DWVC 
scheme. So, at present  it is difficult for me to clearly establish what (if any) breaches occurred and 
when.
Having said that, I consider that the fair compensation I have set out below  for 
misrepresentation adequately  covers compensation for any potential breach. In the 
circumstances, I have  not considered the breach of contract of claim specifically here.
In summary
Taking everything into account I have provisionally concluded that BBVA did not act fairly when  it 
rejected Mr Ts s.75 claim.
Ref: DRN025057512fair compensation
I consider  that there was misrepresentation on part of ILG and Mr T would  not have entered  into the 
contract with it and made the payment of nearly  £9,000  but for this misrepresentation. So, in 
assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr T in the 
position he would have been in but for the misrepresentation by ILG.
Mr T went to the meeting with ILG with the sole aim of disposing of his timeshare at a good price and 
he was sold a package by ILG which  did not work, resulting in financial loss to him. I consider that had 
the misrepresentation not happened, Mr T wouldnt have  entered into a contract  with ILG and incurred 
the cost.
Mr T paid part of this amount through his credit  card but most of it by way of cash. I have not been 
made aware of Mr T not being able to pay back his credit card dues on time thereby incurring high 
levels of interest.  In the circumstances I think  it is simplest for BBVA to refund
The total amount together with simple interest  at 8% p.a. Interest should  be paid from the date of 
payments of the two amounts to the date of settlement.
It is also the case that Mr T would  not have handed over his timeshare documents to ILG. It is not 
entirely clear to me what  ILG did to his timeshare.  Mr T thinks that ILG sold the timeshare  and says 
that he no longer  owns  them. So, my proposed compensation below is on that basis - that his 
timeshares had been  disposed of and that he has no outstanding liability towards  it. I ask Mr T to 
bear this in mind if he chooses to accept my decision. We will not be able to deal with any future 
claim in this regard.
Mr T told us that he would not have given up his timeshare but for ILGs mis-sale and would  like the 
timeshare back. But he also told us that he had put it up for sale at the time he met ILG. He said that 
it was because of the increasing  ongoing costs. He said that the annual maintenance cost at the time 
was around  £500 and increasing. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely that he wanted to sell 
his timeshare rather than keep it.
It is clearly not possible  for me to know now with certainty whether Mr T would  have been able to sell 
his timeshare  at the time. It is generally acknowledged that the resale  market for timeshares isnt 
very active. But I think it likely that Mr T may have been able to sell his timeshare, given the features 
of his particular timeshare such as its location. However it is not possible to be certain  as to how 
much he would have got in return.
As noted previously,  it appears that ILGs salesperson may have valued the timeshare to be
£9,200. However, as our adjudicator noted,  timeshares often tend to be overvalued by the 
salespersons. Indeed, in this instance, the figure of £9,200 works out to almost about  $18,000 at the 
time. This seems a very high figure to me given the purchase price of
$10,000 in 1997. I am not persuaded that this figure of £9,200  was a true reflection of what  Mr T 
could have actually  got.
BBVA on the other  hand says that no value at all should be attributed to the timeshare in arriving at 
fair compensation.  It says that the value of the timeshare  should be derived by comparing  the cost of 
owning the timeshare with the market rental rate of the property  covered by the timeshare  
arrangement. It says: As most  of the timeshare  offer little or no actual  benefit to the timeshare 
holder over and above  that which  he is able to obtain  on an open rental market, the value of the 
timeshare should be zero. 
I agree that generally speaking if a potential timeshare  user is able to get a property  at a lower rental 
cost compared to the cost of owning it under timeshare, then it is less likely they would want  to buy it. 
But there  could be other factors because of which they may still choose to buy - for example 
certainty of availability.
Ultimately, our role is to help settle individual disputes between  consumers  and businesses  
Ref: DRN025057513providing financial services -  fairly,  reasonably  and  informally. Determining  fair compensation is 
not an exact science  especially in cases like this.
I think it is generally the case  that the timeshares  tend to lose a lot of value after the purchase but by 
how much depends on various factors.  It is impossible for me to know how much Mr T would  have got 
had he sold the timeshare  then, but given the location of the property and other features,  I think it is 
not unreasonable to assume that he would  have  got back around 25% of his purchase price  at the 
time. And if I allow for some return on that amount to date,  I consider that the resultant figure  would 
not be too far from the £2,300 proposed by the adjudicator.
In the circumstances  I have provisionally concluded that BBVA should  pay Mr T £2,300 towards the 
timeshare he gave up to ILG as part of the sale.
BBVA has said that Mr T saved on the ongoing maintenance charges because ILG disposed of his 
timeshare and that should  be taken into account when arriving at fair compensation. However, at the 
same time,  he could have  had the benefit  of using  the timeshare but he was deprived of it. Whilst  it is 
not precise,  I think that it is not unreasonable to consider that these two cancel each other. So, I do 
not intend  to provide any further  deduction  on the proposed  redress.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that this complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I am 
minded to require BBVA to:
Refund the total payment  Mr T made to ILG.
Pay simple interest on this amount at 8% p.a. Interest should be paid from the dates  of the two 
payments Mr T made to the date of settlement.
Pay £2,300 to Mr T for the timeshare  he gave  up to ILG.
Raj Varadarajan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0250575