K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2005 alongside  a flexi-loan. Mr A says HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold him 
the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received  any further comments from either  HSBC or Mr A. As I havent  received 
any new information which requires  comment,  I see no reason  to change my provisional 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should  also pay back to Mr A any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mr A the extra he paid each  month  because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC  should also pay Mr A 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN01342052my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so it therefore follows  that I dont instruct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc will have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01342053copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
2005 alongside a flexi-loan. Mr A says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr As case.
I intend not to uphold Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment  to him but 
Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this conclusion.
Mr A has said the sale took place  in a meeting and HSBC hasnt  been able to confirm how the PPI 
was sold. As Mr A seems  to have a recollection of how the policy was sold and HSBC  has no record, 
Ive assessed the sale as if it was completed in a branch. HSBC no longer has a copy of the 
documents Mr A signed, which isnt surprising  considering how long ago the sale was. But it has 
given me sample documents. Im satisfied that even if these  arent  the exact same documents  Mr A 
saw, theyre similar to what he was given at the time.
Looking at these, I can see a separate demands, needs and recommendations form would have 
been completed which  is all about the PPI and describes the policy as optional. Looking  at the 
document, I can see Mr A would have been given  the option  to decline the recommendation to take 
the PPI or accept  it, before  signing the form. So I think HSBC made it clear  that Mr A didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Mr A has said HSBC  recommended the PPI to him  HSBC doesnt have a record of whether  or not it 
gave a recommendation for the policy  but as Mr A seems to remember  receiving advice, and as it puts 
a greater responsibility on HSBC  rather than Mr A, Ive treated this as an advised sale. This means 
HSBC had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and he seems  to have  had a need for the cover.
Mr A told us that he would receive  sick pay for 12 months if he was too ill to work. As this is quite an 
unusual and generous benefit to receive  from an employer we asked Mr As representatives to 
obtain evidence of this. Unfortunately, as at the time of writing, we have not received any evidence 
to show that Mr A would have received  sick pay for a year.
Ive thought about this carefully and, based on what I know about his job role at the time, I think Mr A 
would have received sick pay for some time, however, I dont think  he would have received full sick 
pay for 12 months. But in any event, this policy would have  paid out in addition to and potentially for 
longer than any sick pay Mr A would  have  received.  And it would also have provided  cover for the 
same length of time if he had lost his job. As Mr A doesnt appear to have  had any savings  or other  
means with which to meet  his repayments if he wasnt earning, I think  this policy could have provided 
him with a useful benefit.
Its possible the information  HSBC gave  Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would  have 
been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. 
Ref: DRN01342054But HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair.
To put that right,  HSBC  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Mr A any extra interest he paid because of that.
HSBC should pay back to Mr A the extra he paid each  month because the commission and profit  
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr A 8%* simple interest 
on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
I dont think the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold   so it therefore follows that I dont intend to instruct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc will have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN0134205