K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mrs T says HSBC  
UK Bank Plc mis-sold  to her with a credit card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint about the policy  
being mis-sold shouldnt  be upheld. However,  HSBC has already paid Mrs T some money 
for the commission it received from the sale. Mrs T still thinks  the policy was mis-sold  in the 
first place and so has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint  about  being mis-sold the 
PPI.
Theres very little information  or documents still available for us to refer to although given the 
sale was over 20 years ago, this isnt particularly unusual. HSBC cant even say how the 
sale was carried out, which  is unfortunate. And its clear Mrs T, understandably, cant really 
remember much either. However  she thinks the sale may have been carried  out over the 
telephone. Overall though, theres very little to go on.
However, weve seen  a lot of very similar  types of sale to this and from what  we know about 
them, we think consumers  were  usually given the opportunity of either having  or not having  
 PPI with their new credit card. Theres no dispute PPI was actually sold to Mrs T and given 
the amount paid to her for the commission HSBC  got, I think she would have used her card 
quite a bit. And because  PPI is based  on the outstanding credit at the end of each month, I 
think she would been incurring significant  and regular PPI charges on her card account. 
Mrs T said she wasnt aware  she had PPI, but I think  the PPI costs would have shown up on 
her monthly statements over quite a long time.  So she would have been able to see she had 
this type of cover and I think if shed never  agreed to it, she would have wanted to know 
what all the charges were  for.
I certainly dont doubt Mrs T now genuinely  believes she wasnt  ever told anything about the 
PPI. But given the time lapse and what Ive said above, I think its more likely she was aware 
- and has since forgotten.  In short, I think its more likely that she consented to having  PPI 
back in 1998 when she got her new credit card.
Again, because of when  this all happened, its not entirely clear  if HSBC recommended the 
PPI cover with the credit  card. If it did, this means it was under an additional obligation i.e. to 
ensure this type of cover  was suitable  for Mrs Ts situation. I looked  at her age, job, health 
and general circumstances to help me decide  about this. 
I think that Mrs T was eligible for the PPI and I dont think she would have been caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. The cost was around  £0.72 per 
Ref: DRN02623742£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ts card. In my experience this is broadly in 
line with similar PPI policies and Ive seen nothing that suggests  she would have found the 
monthly charges  unaffordable.
Mrs T told us she already had some  sickness protection with her job. Ive thought  carefully 
about her circumstances and any means  she might have had at that time. But I havent seen 
anything that necessarily means  the PPI wasnt suitable for Mrs T. In the event of a 
successful claim  for example, she wouldve been able to have her outstanding  balance 
reduced by 10% each  month for up to 12 months. These benefits were accessible in addition 
to any other  means  she already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think its more likely  the policy was probably suitable  
for her.
HSBC also had to give Mrs T clear information.  After such  a long time I obviously cant 
confirm she was told everything she shouldve been told. But for me to uphold  this mis-sale 
complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that Mrs T didnt consent to the policy  or there  
were other serious flaws  in the way the policy was sold.  I simply dont have  that evidence.  
On balance, I think she agreed and knew she had the policy.
My understanding is that HSBC has already paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T 
because when the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - it should have told Mrs T about that. Because 
HSBC didnt, that was unfair. 
To put that right, I believe HSBC has already paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T. But HSBC UK Bank  Plc should confirm it has paid her for the 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0262374