K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  their home  insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because  it 
declined a buildings insurance claim, they made for storm  damage.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint in a provisional decision, which was sent to the 
parties last month,  as follows;
Towards the end of November 2018  there  was a storm within the vicinity  of Mr and Mrs Ls 
home. Mr L said this storm caused damage to an external wall within the boundary of his 
home. 
Mr L called  AXA to report the damage  on the same day. AXA said a surveyor  would  visit Mr 
and Mrs Ls home within  five to seven  working  days. But Mr L said that was too long as he 
was concerned the remaining part of the wall would collapse and block  the only entrance to 
his home.  He also said he had two young  children and the wall posed a risk of danger. 
Mr L said he managed  to break down the remaining part of the wall in order  to try and make 
things safer. He also contacted AXAs surveyor to get a quicker appointment. 
AXAs appointed  surveyor attended Mr and Mrs Ls home and said it was more likely  than 
not that the damage was caused by a storm. Mr L said this was followed up and confirmed 
by AXA two days later and he was told to get quotes. 
Mr L said the first builder he appointed told him a structural surveyor would need to carry out 
an inspection before a quote could be completed. Mr L appointed  a structural surveyor  who 
said the rocks would  need to be removed first for a full inspection  to be carried out. Mr L said 
he paid for a skip and removed the rocks from the area that required inspection.   
A few days  later Mr L said he was contacted by AXA and it said it would no longer be 
prepared to cover the claim. This was because images from Google Maps showed  there  
were pre-existing  cracks  and a large  amount of vegetation had been removed from the wall. 
AXA said the damage wasnt attributed to a one-off  storm event but was always  going  to 
collapse because it was in a damaged state before the insurance policy  started. 
Mr and Mrs L complained  to AXA. They provided it with an independent  report  from a 
structural surveyor to support that their claim should be covered. But AXA disagreed and 
maintained its position  to decline  the claim. 
AXA offered  to pay Mr and Mrs L £100  compensation for not reasonably managing  their 
expectations and cover the costs Mr and Mrs L incurred  in hiring a skip to remove the rubble. 
But Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy and so they brought  their complaint to our service.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think AXA had declined Mr and Mrs Ls claim fairly. He was persuaded 
that the damage was caused  by a one-off storm event and that AXA had affirmed the claim. 
And because AXA had affirmed the claim it wasnt  fair for it to change its initial confirmation.
He recommended that AXA should  progress Mr and Mrs Ls claim for storm damage in line 
with the remaining policy terms,  settle  any costs they incurred relating to the claim with 
interest and pay them  £350 for the upset  and inconvenience caused. 
Ref: DRN06083322Mr and Mrs L agreed with our adjudicator, but AXA didnt. AXA maintains that it fairly 
declined the claim  and so the case has been  passed  to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
I set these out as follows;
There is no issue taken that Mr and Mrs Ls policy covers  damage to the wall if caused by a 
storm. But under the policys general exclusions,  theres no cover if the loss or damage 
arises out of an incident that happened  before  the policy started.
Our adjudicator explained that when  we look at a storm damage case, we ask three  
questions: 
1.Were storm  conditions present on or around  the date the damage is said to have 
happened? 
2.Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes? 
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If the answer  to all these  questions is yes then we would  say a claim should  succeed. But, if 
the answer to any question is no, then we usually wouldnt expect such a claim to succeed.  
Whats not in dispute is whether a storm was present, or if the damage is consistent with 
typical storm damage. Whats in dispute, and the crux of the complaint, is whether AXAs 
conclusion that the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage  was fair and reasonable. 
Following its initial decision to accept  the claim, AXA obtained images from Google Maps 
which it said showed the wall was in a poor condition prior to the storm and the policy 
starting. AXA said the wall had previously been  covered in vegetation which  was removed at 
some point before the policy started. And once vegetation was removed, it said this likely 
impacted the walls stability. AXA also said large cracks were apparent and so the wall was 
already in a damaged state.
Ive looked at these images  and agree that AXAs observations  of the walls condition prior to 
the storm are accurate.  I can see vegetation was present  since  August 2009, which is how 
far the images  go back to. There are also several cracks on the wall that I accept would have 
likely impacted the overall stability of the wall. At some point between May 2017  and May 
2018, vegetation was removed. AXAs policy started in September  2018 and so I am 
satisfied by the images that the wall was in a damaged state before Mr and Mrs L were  on 
cover with AXA. 
Where the evidence and information provided conflicts, I make my decision based on what  is 
more likely than not. I consider  all the information  and balance  what  I find is more 
persuasive. In my experience of dealing with these types of cases  AXAs  position that the 
vegetation may have  provided some stability to the wall is one Ive seen from experts acting 
for insurers and consumers. Looking at the images  recorded on Google  Maps I can see that 
even when the vegetation had been  removed from the wall there is visible  evidence  of 
vegetation growing  out of cracks. And this looks more like it starts from the unseen side, so 
effectively penetrating  through  the wall. Im satisfied this would weaken the walls strength
Ref: DRN06083323The cracks are numerous; horizontal,  vertical and diagonal. And some  of them are apparent  
as far back  as 2009. I accept some of what  Mr L has provided in so far as the cracks could 
just be in the surface render. But there  is a large diagonal crack at the top left of the wall that 
from its appearance looks  wide. And when  the position of that crack is compared to the wall 
after the storm, its apparent it is a point failure where the wall has completely separated and 
collapsed. Im persuaded by this that the crack wasnt simply in the render. Its width  and the 
fact the wall detached at this point  persuades me the crack was in all likelihood through the 
entire thickness of the wall. As such the walls integrity, structure and strength was 
compromised, and Im satisfied the storm wasnt the proximate cause  of it falling, rather it 
simply highlighted a damaged wall that was inevitably going to collapse due to its 
deteriorated state. 
Mr and Mrs L provided us with a copy of an independent surveyors report. But I dont find it 
persuasively challenges AXAs information or the state of the wall as apparent in the Google 
images. I am satisfied  on the balance of probabilities that had the wall been in a reasonable 
condition before the storm it wouldnt  have  collapsed.  The fact is it was not and because  of 
that it collapsed.
I appreciate this will disappoint Mr and Mrs L, but Im satisfied  AXA has acted  reasonably by 
concluding that the storm only highlighted  issues with the wall rather than being the cause.
Our adjudicator said AXA didnt  reserve  its rights  when originally accepting  the claim. And 
therefore, he considered AXA was estopped from rejecting the claim. Im not satisfied that 
applies in this case. Estoppel is not a legislative instrument but an equitable doctrine that 
has several factors a court  needs to be satisfied  of before it would apply it. A court is likely to 
consider, among other  things, whether  a plaintiff has shown  a clear and unambiguous 
promise or representation that one party to that contract will not insist  on their strict  legal 
rights against the other. It may be expressed or implied but its key that the party making the 
promise or representation intended  it to affect  the legal relationship between the parties. And 
that the party receiving the promise has changed  their position in reliance on that promise  or 
representation and so it would be unfair for the promise-maker to go back  on the promise.
Mr and Mrs L, in my view, at most lost an expectation that AXA would  cover  the entirety of 
the claim.  And I accept they probably  found  this frustrating. They say in reliance they 
incurred costs in hiring  a skip to remove rubble from their property. Such clearance was 
always going to be required  given the risk it apparently posed. But I note AXA is prepared to 
cover those costs. Mr and Mrs Ls position  was no different whether AXA said it would cover  
the claim or not, other than being  disappointed. In all the circumstances Im not satisfied 
AXA should  be estopped from rejecting the claim for the reasons explained. 
In summary,  I am satisfied that in all the circumstances AXAs decision to decline  Mr and 
Mrs Ls claim is fair. I accept that AXAs  initial handling caused Mr and Mrs L to experience  a 
loss of expectation  but Im satisfied its offer of £100 compensation and to pay the skip 
costs to recognise that is fair and reasonable.  So, based on what Ive seen so far, I wont  be 
asking AXA to do anything else. 
replies to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs L have replied  stating  they disagree with my provisional.  In summary, their main  
points are;
they take issue with some of the wording  used.
they say I am biased to the insurer.
Ref: DRN06083324google photos  do not prove that vegetation invaded  or destabilised the wall.
the adjudicator  and their structural engineer concluded a storm caused the damage.
the part of the wall where  there appears a wide crack (left) was not the point of 
collapse. That was the other end (right) and the rest of the wall including  the cracked 
section were only removed on AXAs instruction  for safety reasons.
Their structural engineer has provided an addendum report.
AXA said it had already paid the compensation of £100 and was awaiting invoices  for the 
skips from Mr and Mrs L. Other than that, AXA had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the replies to my 
provisional decision and a short letter from Mr and Mrs Ls structural engineer,  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint remains that of whether  the storm was the main cause of damage. 
I remain persuaded that the storm was not the main  cause and will explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ls engineers  addendum report raises the following;
the surveyor who attended the site confirmed the damage  was storm related
google images  show vegetation but that it was removed, and the wall stood for a year 
and had survived for many years previously
google images  are inconclusive of cracks  to the render
the storm was the main cause of the collapse
And Mr and Mrs L say;
AXAs surveyor said the damage  is consistent with a one-off storm event
The wall showed no sign of bulging or instability before or after the vegetation was 
removed
The wall section that collapsed  was on the far right not the left
AXA should be estopped from rejecting the claim.
My role is to assess all the evidence, which I have  done carefully, to come to an outcome 
that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
If I take Mr and Mrs Ls account that the wall collapsed  on the right side,  rather  than the left, 
it doesnt change  my view. The google images  give the best evidence about the walls 
appearance and these range from 2009 through to 2018, and before AXA was the insurer. Ill 
be more specific about the cracks than perhaps  I was in the provisional decision,  albeit these  
images have been available  to all parties  and theyve known about them. In 2009  the image 
shows a vertical crack on the right side of the wall where  it abuts a smaller wall. In 2011  the 
image shows, in my view,  a deterioration in the crack appearing slightly wider and with some  
pieces of render  missing. And the images  from May 2015 show,  again in my view, yet more 
deterioration with the crack wider and more  render missing around the crack. The final 
images available from May 2018  show significant  widening of the crack and its such that it 
appears to be moving away  from the wall it previously abutted. So, taking this all into 
account I am persuaded that AXA has shown the wall was damaged before the policy  with 
Mr and Mrs L started. And that damage, in my view, shows  deterioration over several years. 
As such,  if the wall collapsed on the right side, I am satisfied its more  likely than not this was 
because it was weakened and deteriorating  as shown  by the images  from 2009.
Ref: DRN06083325On the estoppel point Mr and Mrs L raise  Im not changing the outcome from that outlined  in 
my provisional decision. 
The fact that I have reached  a different outcome to the adjudicator is something that I, as an 
Ombudsman, am entitled to do (the relevant authority is contained in the Dispute Resolution  
Rules in the Financial Conduct Authority  Handbook).  The Rules  state (DISP 3.6.1 R); 
The Ombudsman  will determine  a complaint  by reference to what is, in his opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
And the Handbook  glossary defines Ombudsman  as;
a person  appointed to the panel of persons  maintained by the FOS Ltd to determine 
complaints, including the Chief Ombudsman. 
So, the authority  to make the determination  in this complaint,  where the parties havent 
agreed with the provisional assessment issued by the adjudicator,  lies with the Ombudsman. 
And so, in summary, I am satisfied that in all the circumstances AXAs  decision to decline Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim  is fair. I accept that AXAs initial handling  caused Mr and Mrs L to 
experience a loss of expectation  but Im satisfied its offer of £100 compensation and to pay 
the skip costs to recognise that, is fair and reasonable. So, based  on what  Ive seen so far, I 
wont be asking AXA to do anything else.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  AXA Insurance  UK Plc must pay the skip hire costs  on receipt 
of evidence from Mr and Mrs L of those costs incurred in removing the wall debris.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs L to accept  
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0608332