K820x#14complaint
Miss A and Mrs A complain that Sussex Independent Financial Advisers  Limited (SIFA) 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 2008. 
background
On 3 October 2019, I issued a provisional decision in which  I said I wasnt  planning to uphold  
the complaint.  I asked  the parties to send me any further evidence or information  that they 
wanted me to consider before I issued this final decision. 
SIFA responded to say my provisional decision had been received, but it did not provide any 
further evidence.  Miss A and Mrs A replied  with some further information. They said that 
contrary what I set out in my provisional  decision, Mrs A was working when they took the PPI 
policy out. They also said that they had enough to cover their mortgage if Miss A was out of 
work in the form of six months full sick pay and Mrs As income from work. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered with some  care the additional  points that Miss A and Mrs A made. But having 
done so, Im afraid  I havent  upheld this complaint.  Ill explain why below. 
The first thing for me to determine in response to the further information that was provided to 
me is Mrs As employment  status. Looking at the evidence before me, I can see that in their 
questionnaire to this service, Miss A and Mrs A had written n/a when asked about  Mrs As 
work.  
However, looking at the documentary  evidence  thats available from the time, I can see that 
Miss A was referred to as the main wage earner , which suggests that Mrs A could have 
been working. But I dont think what I said about this was material  to my decision. In any 
event, as Miss A was the main wage earner, I still think it was right to set the policy up to 
cover her. 
Ive looked again at what Miss A and Mrs A said about having  enough  means in place to 
cover them if Miss A was out of work. I appreciate that Miss A would have had some sick 
pay from work and Mrs A was also probably  working. I want to reiterate that the mortgage  
Miss A and Mrs A took out was secured on their home. The consequences if they fell behind  
with those payments  would have been  significant.  I think that with PPI, they would have 
been able to use their existing  means on their other essential expenditure at what  would no 
doubt have been a stressful  time for them if Miss A was out of work. 
So overall, I still think the policy was suitable  for their needs. And for the reasons set out 
below, I dont think more  or better information would  have  put them off buying  the cover. 
With all of this in mind and taking account  of what I said in my provisional decision,  I havent 
upheld this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Miss A and Mrs A. 
Ref: DRN04898012my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Sussex  Independent Financial Advisers  Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss A and Mrs A complain that Sussex Independent Financial Advisers  Limited (SIFA) mis-sold 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 2008. 
Ref: DRN04898013background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She thought  SIFA  hadnt made it clear  to 
Miss A and Mrs A that the PPI cover was optional. SIFA didnt agree  with that view. As the parties  are 
not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry to disappoint Miss A and Mrs A, but as things stand, I dont think  the complaint should  be 
upheld. Ill explain why below. 
It is agreed between the parties that the PPI sale took place during a meeting  at the home  of Miss A 
and Mrs A. I cant know what was said during  that meeting. So to help me decide  whats likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what  Miss A and Mrs A remember  about it. I can see that the person who 
sold this policy still works at SIFA and so Ive considered what he told us about the sale.  Ive also 
taken account of the documentary evidence  thats available from the time. 
The first thing for me to look at is whether  SIFA had Miss A and Mrs As explicit  agreement  to buy the 
PPI policy.  I can see that Miss A and Mrs A both signed a document  which on the face of it indicates  
they didnt want a PPI policy. But when deciding  what I think  is likely  to have happened, I have to look 
at all of the evidence  and not just one document. 
I can see the document that Miss A and Mrs A signed was quite  lengthy. Theres a note on the front of 
it (which I assume  to be from the SIFA adviser)  asking  them to sign where indicated.  There was a 
cross marked against the page to decline PPI and both 
Miss A and Mrs A have signed where  marked. 
Ive thought about whether this cover was added without Miss A and Mrs As knowledge. I can see 
that they tried to make  a claim on the cover when  Miss A took voluntary redundancy. So I think they 
must have known they had the cover at that time. I can also see from their PPI questionnaire that they 
knew theyd bought PPI when the SIFA adviser  met with them in their home  and they gave some brief 
reasons explaining why theyd taken the cover out. They also said the cover had been renewed in 
2010, which indicated they were aware  the initial sale had taken place in 2008.  
Looking at all the evidence together,  although  I can see Miss A and Mrs A signed  a form to say they 
didnt want cover, it seems likely that this was signed in error.  Looking at all of the evidence together, I 
think Miss A and Mrs A probably knew theyd  bought PPI at the time and I think they probably knew 
they had a PPI policy. And from the information  theyve  provided, it seems likely  that they agreed to it 
at the time.  
Ive also considered whether  it would  have been made clear to Miss A and Mrs A that they could have 
refused the cover if they didnt want it. The lengthy document Ive referred to above appears to be a 
detailed record of what was discussed during the meeting between  the parties. I think  its clear  from 
that letter  that the cover  was optional  and I dont think Miss A and Mrs A would have thought  this was 
a condition of their mortgage. 
This was an advised sale. So SIFA had to make sure the cover was suitable for 
Miss A and Mrs As needs. To help me decide whether  it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also considered  what they told us about  their personal  circumstances 
at the time.  
The PPI was set up to cover Miss A only and that would  be right because the evidence suggests  Mrs 
A wasnt working at that time.  Looking  at the policy  documents,  I can see that the mortgage 
Ref: DRN04898014repayments would have been  covered  for up to 12 months if she was too unwell to work or if she was 
made compulsorily redundant. 
I can see that Miss A would have had some sick pay through her work if she became unwell. But it 
appears the PPI would  have lasted longer than her full sick pay. Miss A and Mrs A told us they didnt 
have any other means with which to make  payments towards their mortgage if Miss A was out of 
work. I think its important for me to stress that the mortgage  was secured on their home and it would  
have been at significant risk if they fell behind with their repayments. 
I understand that Miss A was in good health when  the PPI was sold and so I dont think she would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions  about medical conditions. I can see that Miss A 
made a claim on the PPI policy, which was refused because shed taken  voluntary redundancy. 
Voluntary redundancy is an exclusion that is consistent  with many  policies that were available at the 
time. The evidence Ive seen  doesnt suggest that it was likely Miss A was likely to have taken 
voluntary redundancy  in 2008. So I dont think this exclusion made  the policy unsuitable  at that time. 
Of course, if I am wrong in that assumption, I would particularly welcome Miss A and Mrs As 
comments.  
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, it appears to me likely that the cover was suitable. 
Even so, SIFA still had to give Miss A and Mrs A enough information about the cover so they could 
decide for themselves  whether it was a good fit for their needs.  That information  had to be clear, fair 
and not misleading. As I said above,  SIFA provided Miss A and Mrs A with a lot of information.  
However, it was tied in with a lot of financial  information  and not necessarily  as clear  as it could have 
been. 
But having said that, Ive set out above how this cover could have been helpful to them  if Miss A 
became unwell or in the event of compulsory redundancy. And it looks as though they probably  chose 
to buy PPI at the time.  With all of this in mind,  I dont  think more  or better information about the cover 
would have caused them to change their mind  about buying it. 
I realise my decision  will be disappointing to Miss A and Mrs A  and I am sorry to disappoint them. 
But as things stand, for the reasons set out above, I dont think this complaint  should be upheld.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further comments or evidence I receive, Im not intending to uphold this complaint 
about Sussex Independent Financial Advisers Limited. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 3 
November 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0489801