K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store card.  She 
says she wasnt told it was optional.
A company called Financial Insurance Company Limited is responsible for complaints about 
these sales. Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mrs F disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Id like to say that I certainly  dont doubt that Mrs Fs recollections of being mis-sold the PPI 
are honest  and genuine. However, these events  are from quite a few years ago and because 
this is the case,  weve  got very little to refer to. 
Nevertheless, weve seen  a number of very similar  sales  to this one and weve spoken at 
length to the company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were 
generally used.  
Mrs F told us she thought the PPI was sold over the phone. FICL records also show  Mrs F 
took out the store card in 1995,  but she didnt get PPI on it until 1996 when it was sold to her 
during a phone  call. 
The FICL description of how this sale took place is in accordance  with my understanding  of 
how many  consumers bought this type of PPI with store cards at around that time but it also 
means Mrs F would  have had her card for around a year without  any PPI. Because of this, I 
think shed have been able to see PPI cover wasnt compulsory or something she needed to 
have with her store  card if she didnt want to. In short, I think shed have been able to see it 
was optional.
Theres no recording of the call and FICL  doesnt  have  any notes from it. But I dont think  
thats surprising  or unreasonable  given  that this all took place well over 20 years ago and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. I also note that the amount of PPI 
she was subsequently charged  for does indicate  to me that she used the card quite a bit in 
the late 90s and onwards.  And I think the PPI would have started showing  up on her 
monthly statements.
These things, taken together, make  me think its more likely Mrs F agreed to add the PPI 
policy to her store card, back in 1996.
Ref: DRN06530822My experience is that FICL provided  a non-advised  sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear  information for Mrs F to decide  for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. I simply cant say whether this was done  because theres nothing to refer to. But I 
think its just as likely that important information  was given   as it wasnt.  And I think  its fair 
for me to assume Mrs F would  have  at least been sent something by the third party insurer 
explaining the cover  and what  it did.
Mrs F told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt  
need any PPI. I fully understand why shes told us this and Ive thought  very carefully  about  
the benefits Mrs F says she enjoyed.  But Im afraid  these dont necessarily  mean the PPI 
wasnt of use. 
This is because Ive checked that Mrs F was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major  exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered 
was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave  more  protection  than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work  or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been  in addition to any 
other means  Mrs F had in place at the time.
So I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been of use in her situation. I think 
this could explain why she probably  chose to agree  to it during the call.
For me to uphold Mrs Fs complaint, Id need to think it was more  likely that she wasnt  given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  I just dont have 
that evidence.  So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy  was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0653082