K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in August 2004. Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr R, who is represented by a third party, took out a PPI policy  online in August 2004 at 
the same  time as he was applying for a credit card. This policy  covered him if he was off 
work because of an accident,  sickness  or if he was made unemployed. The policy  cost 
around £0.79 per £100 of the outstanding  balance  on Mr Rs card.  And it would have 
paid 10% of that balance on making  a successful claim.
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is that he says he cant remember the PPI being added  to 
his card,  it was never explained to him and if it had been an option he wouldnt have 
chosen it as he didnt need  the extra expense.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed with this 
view and asked that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Ive seen Mr R has already received a refund for commission Barclays  got from selling 
him PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise Mr R will be 
disappointed with my decision but Id like to explain why.
Mr R took out the PPI on the internet. The first thing  Ive thought about is whether Mr R 
was given a fair choice  about buying  the policy. Mr R is effectively saying the PPI was 
added automatically  and without his knowledge.  From what  we know about these online 
sales, Mr R would have been required to indicate yes if he wanted the PPI during the 
application process. But he could have also said no if he didnt want it. 
Also, Barclays has sent me the actual credit agreement which  it would have sent to Mr R 
after he applied for his card and the PPI online.  Theres a section on the form about the 
PPI  it confirms that Mr R wanted  to be covered against unemployment, accident and 
sickness. Mr R has signed and dated the form  as well as writing in YES next to the PPI 
section, which had already been  completed on the basis that he was taking PPI. So it looks  
to me as if Mr R was happy with the decision hed made when he applied  for PPI in the 
course of his online application.  So overall  I think its likely he chose to take it out knowing 
he could still refuse it if he didnt want it  as Mr R did in relation to the card protection  
product that hed initially agreed to when  hed applied online. 
Ref: DRN03254582As Mr R took out the PPI online, I dont think Barclays  recommended  the PPI to him. 
That meant it didnt  have to make  sure the PPI was suitable. But it still needed to give 
him enough clear  information so he could decide  whether it was a good  fit for his needs.
Given how long ago the sale took place,  I cant say exactly what  Mr R saw at the time of 
the sale. So its possible that not all the information  was as clear  as it should have been. 
But having  thought about whether having more or better information  would  have changed 
Mr Rs mind about buying the policy,  I dont think Mr R would have been put off buying 
the policy even  if Barclays gave better or clearer information.
I say this because  I can see he was eligible for the PPI. And as he was in good health 
and was working I dont  think  he would have  been affected by any of the main 
limitations or exclusions that might have made it more difficult  to make a successful  
claim.
As a non-advised sale it was up to Mr R to choose  the policy taking into account his other 
means. Mr R says he wasnt  entitled to any benefits from his employer if he wasnt able to 
work or lost his job. He also says he had no savings  or access  to other  financial  
resources. If Mr R couldnt work through accident  or sickness  or if he lost his job, this 
policy would have paid for up to 12 months  at a time. I therefore  think  the cover would 
have been useful for him if things went wrong.  Also, theres nothing Ive seen  that makes 
me think the policy was unaffordable for him.
It follows that I dont think Mr Rs PPI was mis-sold and so Barclays doesnt need to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint. And given that it looks  as if 
Mr R has already been refunded the commission that is due to him, theres  nothing  more 
that Barclays Bank UK PLC needs  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0325458