K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Everyday Lending  Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Miss A was given three loans by ELL between March 2016 and June 2017. ELL has 
described the last two loans as top-ups  to the first loan. I, however,  think they should more 
accurately be described as refinancing  the previous loans   the amounts Miss A borrowed, 
and needed to repay, increased each time. And the period for which  she would be making 
repayments was extended too. So I intend to treat each as a separate  loan for the purposes 
of this decision. At the time of making this complaint Miss A was still some way off repaying 
the final loan.  A summary of her borrowing  from ELL is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Term 
(Months)
1 02/03/2016 Refinanced £   5,000 36
2 14/10/2016 Refinanced £   7,300 36
3 21/06/2017 - £ 10,000 48
Miss As complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think the checks 
ELL had done  before  agreeing any of the loans had been sufficient. And he thought that 
better checks should have  led ELL to reject Miss As application for the final loan. So he 
asked ELL to pay Miss A some compensation.
Neither Miss A nor ELL have agreed with our adjudicators assessment. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process. If Miss A accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both 
parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Miss As complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time ELL gave these loans to Miss A required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what  she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss A. In practice  
this meant  that ELL had to ensure  that making  the repayments wouldnt cause Miss A undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Miss A. 
Ref: DRN06200122Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Miss A.
ELL gathered some information from Miss A before it agreed each loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal monthly  rent or mortgage  costs. It then used a 
statistical calculation to estimate her remaining monthly expenditure. And it checked 
Miss As credit file to get an understanding of her monthly credit  repayments. I will comment 
further on the results  of those checks later in this decision.
When she asked for the first loan Miss A was entering into a significant commitment  with 
ELL. She would need to make  monthly repayments for a period of three years.  So I would 
expect that ELL would want  to gather, and independently check,  some  detailed information 
about Miss As financial circumstances before  it agreed  to lend to her. I dont think that the 
checks it did were  enough. I think it would have been proportionate for ELL to independently 
check the true state of Miss As finances before agreeing the loan.  
But although  I dont  think the checks ELL did before  agreeing the first loan were  sufficient, 
that in itself doesnt mean that Miss As complaint  should succeed. Id also need to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown ELL that 
Miss A couldnt sustainably afford  the repayments.
When she took the loan Miss A agreed  with ELL that she would be using part of it to repay 
another loan she had outstanding, and a credit card balance. I can see that Miss A has said 
that ELL unfairly  induced her to increase  her loan size to include those repayments. I cant  
be sure what led Miss A to make that agreement   it might be for example that ELL was only 
willing to lend to her if she repaid her other borrowing first. I dont have enough evidence to 
make me think that ELL acted inappropriately here.
Otherwise the credit check  results  that ELL received didnt suggest that Miss As finances 
were under significant  pressure. We asked Miss A for copies of her bank statements at the 
Ref: DRN06200123time so we could see what better checks would have shown to ELL but she was unable  to 
provide these to us. So I cant  fairly  say that even if ELL had done  better  checks  it would 
have concluded  that Miss A might  struggle  to make her repayments sustainably.  
And I think the same applies  to the second  loan. I agree with Miss A that ELL should  have 
been increasingly concerned when she asked for this loan. Just seven months into a three  
year loan she asked  to refinance her borrowing. The additional amount she borrowed at that 
time resulted in her monthly  repayments increasing by almost 50%. And her credit file 
showed that the credit card balance shed  previously cleared was now close to her credit 
limit once again.
But Miss A had managed her repayments  on the first loan well. And her credit file showed  
that she was managing  her other  credit well too. She didnt have any late payments showing 
or any evidence that shed taken other  credit  recently. So on balance  I dont think the 
information ELL gathered was enough  for it to conclude  it shouldnt lend to Miss A. And 
without further  evidence from Miss A of her financial  situation at that time I cannot  conclude 
that proportionate checks would have  led to her borrowing  application being  declined.
Around eight months  later Miss A approached  ELL once again, asking to refinance  her loan 
for a second  time. Given the additional borrowing she took again,  her repayments would now 
be almost double those  she agreed to just a little over a year earlier, even though  her loan 
term had been  extended to a further  four years.
I think that Miss As borrowing pattern alone  should have been enough for ELL to conclude 
that she was most likely facing problems managing  her money.  And its credit check  showed 
that Miss As indebtedness had increased markedly over the past few months. She now had  
another credit card with a large balance outstanding and a large balance  on a hire purchase 
agreement. So taking everything  into account I dont think  it was reasonable for ELL to give 
the final loan to Miss A. ELL needs  to put things right.
putting things right
Although I dont think ELL should have given  the final loan to Miss A, she has had the benefit 
of the principal amount that she borrowed.  I think it is fair and reasonable for me to expect 
Miss A to repay that principal amount to ELL if she hasnt already done  so. To put things 
right ELL should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Miss A has made  towards this loan as payments towards  the capital
if reworking Miss As loan account as Ive directed results in her effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then ELL should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Miss As loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind ELL that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an 
affordable repayment plan for the remaining capital with Miss A.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss As credit  file in relation to the final 
loan.
Ref: DRN06200124 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss As complaint and direct  Everyday Lending  
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0620012