K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that an error  on Capital Professional Limiteds part led to him incurring  
tax on a pension  withdrawal.
background
Mr S switched to an income  drawdown  plan in 2014. Capital Professional Limited arranged  
this on an insistent client basis  after advising against the switch. The transferred sum of 
around £27,000 was left in cash, as Mr S intended to draw  it down in the short term under 
the new rules. Prior to the new rules  being introduced, Mr S made a single drawing at the 
maximum limit, which was paid with no tax deduction, as the provider held a tax code 
denoting that the entire personal allowance was available. 
Mr S converted to flexi-access  drawdown.  The adviser confirmed that the provider would 
require a letter stating  that Mr S wanted  a lump  sum withdrawal up to the new personal  
allowance of £10,600. Mr S then requested  a withdrawal of £10,400. Emergency tax was 
applied to this withdrawal, however he received a rebate in due course. 
Mr S called the adviser on 20 May 2016  to arrange  a new withdrawal. The adviser  then 
wrote to him, confirming  that he wished to make  a withdrawal of £11,000, which was the new 
personal allowance.  He stated that Mr S wanted  to draw this sum in the most tax efficient  
way, and that he had requested a withdrawal  of £11,000 gross. He stated that Mr S would 
need to draw £13,750 in order to receive  £11,000,  as the provider  couldnt  pay the funds 
gross. Mr S applied for this withdrawal,  stating that he didnt expect tax to be deducted. The 
withdrawal was taxed  at basic rate, and Mr S was ultimately unable  to reclaim all the tax 
because the gross withdrawal exceeded the personal allowance.  
Mr S complained. He said that it had always been  his intention to draw income at the 
personal allowance.  Capital Professional Limited  stated  that no advice had been provided, 
and that it had explained the tax situation.  
After the complaint was referred  to the Financial  Ombudsman Service, an adjudicator  
considered the complaint and thought that it should not be upheld.  The adjudicator referred  
the complaint  for an ombudsman decision. However, an investigator  reviewed the previous 
findings and didnt agree  with them He felt the complaint should be upheld.  He made the 
following main points:
Mr S hadnt paid ongoing advice  fees.  However, if Capital Professional Limited had 
expected him to arrange his own withdrawals,  it would have told him so. It had 
arranged withdrawals  for him previously.  In arranging  his withdrawal, Capital 
Professional Limited had a responsibility  to treat him fairly and protect his interests. 
It also had to provide  information that was clear, fair and not misleading.  
Mr S wanted to draw  the pension tax efficiently.  It was reasonably  clear that he had 
wanted to draw £11,000 gross. This would have been consistent with the previous 
payment, and the adviser had also confirmed  that Mr S had requested this.
The adviser misled Mr S by saying  he should  draw £13,750. He should have drawn 
£11,000 and reclaimed any tax in full. The adviser must have known  that the 
personal allowance was £11,000, and that drawing  £13,750 would inevitably lead to 
Mr S paying tax he could not reclaim. 
Ref: DRN04918652It was also clear  that Mr S expected  not to pay tax. He wouldnt have knowingly paid 
£550 tax for the sake of receiving £11,000 immediately and £2,200  later. He hadnt  
required all of the £11,000 immediately. 
Mr S could  reasonably  have expected  that the adviser would inform him if he was 
going to do something  inconsistent  with his aims.  The idea of drawing  £13,750 came 
from the adviser and was fundamentally  flawed. It was also clear  that Mr S didnt 
understand pension matters particularly well. It wouldnt be fair for Mr S to share 
responsibility for the consequences of the error.  
The investigator recommended  that Capital Professional Limited should refund the tax 
liability with 8% simple interest,  and pay £200 for distress and inconvenience.  
Capital Professional Limited did not accept  the investigators view,  so the complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint should  be upheld and for the same  reasons.
The adviser knew that Mr S wanted  to drain  his pension tax efficiently. Mr S had made 
withdrawals to keep  within  his personal  income tax allowance. The adviser wrote to Mr S 
about a withdrawal of £11,000 in May 2016.  Unfortunately, this was then taken as a gross  
withdrawal of £13,750. As Mr S was a non-taxpayer,  he would have been able to reclaim any 
tax deducted on a withdrawal of £11,000. He has paid income tax that he is not able to 
reclaim as a result of the advisers error in requesting the higher gross payment. 
I am satisfied that Mr S intended  to take payments to stay within the personal tax allowance.  
If a lower withdrawal had been  taken, he would have withdrawn the remaining  funds  in the 
following tax year. The advisers error  caused  Mr S to pay an unnecessary  tax charge.
Capital Professional Limited should  pay compensation as set out by the investigator.  This 
has caused Mr S some  distress  and inconvenience  and I agree that of modest payment of 
£200 is appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Capital Professional Limited  should  pay Mr S the tax liability which I 
understand to have  been £550.  Simple  interest should be added at a rate of 8% gross a year 
from the date the payment in the following tax year was made  to Mr S, which  the investigator 
said was about  18 October 2017,  to the date of settlement. A payment of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S should also be made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0491865