K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Harvey  & Thompson Limited continually agreed  to accept items for
pawn from him over a number of years, despite them  knowing about  his serious medical
conditions and his gambling addiction. Mr A further complains that Harvey  & Thompson
Limited lent beyond  the value  of the pledged items  and that the interest  rates he paid were
lowered, to encourage him to keep returning with more items to pledge.
background
Mr A visited  a particular branch of Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) from the late 2000s
until 2018, from which numerous financial arrangements were  entered  into. In 2009, Mr A
was granted a cheque loan of £522 that was repaid  the following month.
According to H&Ts records, Mr A then proceeded to pledge  91 items for pawn over the
course of the following  nine years, for which H&T agreed to lend a total of £32,340.41. H&Ts
records show that 81 items were redeemed  and that a total of £25,975.41 was repaid for
these. H&T also provided  Mr A with a loan for £700  in 2017 that was repaid the following
month.
Mr A complained to H&T in late 2018 and early  2019. Its unclear specifically what Mr A said
at that time to prompt the complaint but H&Ts responses to these complaints were,  in
summary:
it was reasonable  for them to have provided  Mr A with the cheque  loan in 2009 and
loan in 2017
they would no longer  provide any further  lending products to Mr A following his
disclosure of his medical conditions and gambling addiction.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. In summary, he said that H&T:
exploited him by continuing to encourage him to bring items  in to pawn despite
knowing about his gambling addiction and knowing  the money would be used for that
purpose
provided lending  based on an over-inflated valuation of the items that were pledged
with very low interest rates applied in the knowledge  that his parents would repay the
borrowing if his gambling wasnt successful
keeping his pledge  and loan contracts  in branch
lent without asking  him for his identification
were aware that many of the items  he was pledging werent his
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint and so it has been passed to me for a
decision.
I sent my provisional findings on this case to Mr A and H&T on 20 April 2021, in which I said 
the following:
Firstly, I note that one of our senior  investigators  has recently concluded that H&T shouldnt
have given Mr A the loan of £700 in 2017.  H&T accepts this and has made an offer which  Mr
A has accepted. So, I dont propose to make  any finding on this as it seems that particular
matter has been  resolved.
Ref: DRN09676132I have initially considered whether it was reasonable or responsible  for H&T to provide Mr A
with the cheque loan in 2009, as that has formed part of Mr As complaint. There  is very little
information thats been provided about what happened at the point this was lent. This isnt
necessarily surprising bearing in mind  how long ago this happened.  I am mindful though  that
this happened  at what appears to have the start of Mr As interaction with H&T. So, H&T
would not have had much, if any, history of Mr A as a customer  that could have formed part
of their assessment  on his creditworthiness at that time.
I note also that cheque loans worked in such a way that there was some form of assurance
of creditworthiness  by the customer having  a cheque guarantee card. This guaranteed
payments by their bank  of the particular  amount shown  on the card (or less). That doesnt
mean that this in itself should have  been enough to satisfy H&T that Mr A could sustainably
repay £600, as the cheque guarantee cards would  typically guarantee a lot less than that.
However, Mr A did repay this loan on time. Overall, taking the above into account,  Im not
satisfied that it was unreasonable for H&T to grant this loan to Mr A.
I turn now to what is evidently the main thrust of Mr As complaint, namely H&Ts conduct
throughout the course of providing pawnbroking services to him.
Mr A has made a number  of serious  allegations of wrong-doing against  individual members
of the branch in question.  And in particular,  a manager who,  Mr A says, was instrumental in
exploiting him and his condition.
I understand the manager in question no longer works at the branch. So, it isnt possible to
ask him for his version of events. I have to bear that in mind when deciding  Mr As case as
well as the remit of our service. Put simply, we are an informal  resolution service and arent
able to, for example, cross-examine  individuals or summon individuals  to provide evidence  in
the way a court would.
H&T strongly refutes Mr As contention that their staff knew  about his conditions and
exploited them. H&T has also said that they werent  obligated to carry out any form of
affordability assessment  as pawnbroking is specifically  exempt  from any such regulatory
requirement.
H&T is correct  to say that the principles and rules  around lending that are set out in the
regulators Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as CONC) dont apply to pawnbroking.
However, that isnt to say that H&T had no obligations at all, either while  the Office  of Fair
Trading regulated consumer credit  activities or since the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
took over that regulation.
The FCA has made it clear that pawnbrokers  are not excluded  from the requirement  to
assess a customers creditworthiness. However,  the particular requirement, as set out in
CONC 5.3.4R, is that the assessment should  be primarily or solely made on the value of the
pawned item, provided that the customers total financial liability is limited under  the
agreement to the proceeds  of the sale which would represent the true market  value of the
item.
I havent seen  sufficient evidence that H&T failed to obtain the true market value of any
items they sold or intended  to sell. Or that any liability  was placed on Mr A beyond the sale
price of any items.
Ref: DRN09676133However, I note also that a large number of these items was redeemed rather than sold.  And
Mr A makes  a very particular point about  the items he brought in to pawn. Namely,  that
these were knowingly  grossly over-valued by H&T to encourage him to repeatedly bring in
further items.
Ive carefully considered  this point taking into account two main aspects. The first is that, if
H&T grossly over-valued the items as Mr A says,  then the financial risk of that would in
theory be taken on by H&T. In other words, in principle,  a pawnbroker wouldnt vastly  
overvalue an item thats been pledged  because,  if their customer doesnt redeem the item by
repaying the loan,  then they take the financial hit of the item being sold at its true market
value which  would be considerably less than the amount they lent and which  remained
unpaid.
However, Mr As point is that H&T over-valued the items  knowing  that it was more likely than
not that his parents would  pay off what hed borrowed. Mr A has specifically said that H&T
encouraged him to borrow with that in mind.
The difficulty  here is that both parties position  is plausible. But, if I were  to specifically find
that H&T had over-valued the items to the extent Mr A says they did, I would need
reasonably incontrovertible proof that the items  were  valued in such a way. Mr A has given a
few examples of how certain items were over-valued. But I simply  dont have enough
persuasive evidence  of that. This is hampered rather by the sheer number of items that were
pledged by Mr A with H&T.  It simply isnt practical  or realistic to go through each item and
see which, if any, were incorrectly valued. And I havent seen any form of specific valuation
made on these items by a jewellery expert for example that might  need weight to Mr As
claim.
So, for these reasons,  I dont currently intend  to uphold this particular part of Mr As
complaint. And, because  Mr As particular submission around how the over-valuation of the
items coincided with his submission that H&T manipulated the interest  rate for each loan, I
dont currently intend to uphold this part of the complaint either.  I simply dont have enough
persuasive evidence  that the interest rates were  manipulated.
I do though have concerns about  the extent of the pawnbroking relationship Mr A had with
H&T. It strikes me as, at least potentially, concerning that Mr A was allowed  to bring in so
many items to pledge  so frequently over such a long period of time.
I accept that there isnt a set limit of how many items a pawnbroker should  accept from a
customer. However, someone  being so reliant on this relationship over such a long period of
time does  bring  into question why this was happening.
I have no doubt  that Mr A was pledging  these  items  to feed his gambling addiction.  He has
been very open about this and has provided evidence of this. The key for me is whether or
not H&T knew about this (or should have known about this) and failed to protect  a customer
that was vulnerable.
I think one of the key parts of this case is Mr As assertion that his parents visited  the branch
on more than one occasion to plead  with them not to give Mr A any more  money because  of
his medical conditions and his gambling addiction. Mr As parents have contacted us to say
that they did visit the branch on more  than one occasion to ask them not to give Mr A any
more money and that many of the items  Mr A was bringing in werent his to pledge.
Ref: DRN09676134If I were  to look at the situation in simple black and white terms, then I would say that Mr A
would have to bear the responsibility of bringing  in items to pledge  that he knew  wasnt his to
pledge. This has particular relevance in the context  of the copies of a handful of loan
agreements that were taken out between Mr A & H&T that Ive seen.  The agreements said
that:
the borrower warrants to the pawnbroker:
a) that he or she has good and marketable title to the Property  free of all encumbrances
of any kind of if the Property is not the Property  of the Borrower  that the Borrower
has the unqualified authority of the owner of the Property to pledge  it as security for
this agreement...
However, I have to balance that with the fact that Mr A was in the throes  of a serious
gambling addiction.  Not only that, Mr A says that the staff members  of H&T knew this and
allowed him to still pledge items knowing  he had no authority to do so.
This is a particularly emotive and sensitive subject and I likely wont be able to reach a
finding that satisfies both parties. But, put simply,  I believe  what  Mr A has said.  I think  it more
likely than not, given  his candid,  compelling  testimony, the testimony of his parents, and the
sheer frequency of the transactions,  that H&Ts staff likely were aware that he had a serious
compulsion to gamble.  That is not the same as me saying that H&T staff knowingly
encouraged him to pledge items  that werent  his. As Ive mentioned  already in this decision,
that is a very serious allegation and as such not one that I find I have enough compelling
evidence to agree with.
But I think likely that H&Ts staff were  aware  of Mr As compulsion  to gamble and that they
failed to recognise that him continuing to return to their branch to pledge  items was
exacerbating his condition.  Put simply,  I currently feel that H&T should  have  done  more to
check that it was appropriate  to continue  with the lending relationship  with him. And had they
given proper thought to this, they would have  reasonably concluded it would not have been
appropriate to continue to accept items for pawn much earlier than when they decided  not to
lend any more to Mr A in 2019.
So, I am currently minded  to uphold Mr As complaint for these reasons.
This leaves  me to determine what a fair and reasonable award should be. I note that Mr A
has asked for all of the interest applied to all of the pledged items  to be refunded. I do need
to take into account  though what likely may have  happened  had H&T treated Mr A as a
vulnerable customer  appropriately. This is important because I need  to consider whether the
loss Mr A suffered would have been preventable. I note also that Mr A has said that his
parents repaid many of the loans, so arguably that would be their financial loss rather  than
Mr As.
I have to bear in mind  though that Mr A was in the grip of a serious gambling addiction.  Mr A
has very openly and candidly said this. I have  to think about what Mr A likely would have
done had H&T declined to accept items for pawn much sooner than they did. I cant  discount
the possibility  that Mr A would have sought to take these items to other  pawnbrokers.  I hope
Mr A isnt offended by my suggestion here and I am in no way seeking to put any blame on
him. I absolutely recognise that what happened  to him was something  he wasnt able to
control. However, I cant discount that this was a distinct  possibility  due to the seriousness  of
his addiction.
Ref: DRN09676135With that in mind, I am currently minded to say that H&T should award £500 to Mr A for the 
distress that their actions  caused him.
I invited both parties to reply. H&T responded saying they were happy to accept my 
provisional decision. Mr A responded saying,  in summary, that:
he accepted  my provisional findings  about  the cheque loan
a previous staff member he spoke to verified  that the branch staff were  aware of his 
conditions and encouraged him to continue to pawn  items  with them
H&T clearly  did lend beyond the value of the pawned items 
he would  like a refund of the pawned items that couldnt be redeemed  and a refund 
of the interest  of the items that were  redeemed
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will address the points that Mr A made in response  to my provisional  decision. 
Mr A has asked  us to contact a particular ex-staff member of H&T who he says will verify  
that the branch staff knew about  his vulnerabilities  and will also verify the more serious 
allegations about certain members of staff. 
I mentioned in my provisional decision that we dont operate  in the same way a court  does. I 
cant compel witnesses  to provide testimony  or evidence as that is not within  my remit. I 
would consider any evidence provided by any third party had this been provided  to us, 
although I would need to consider the independence of that evidence  and the context of how 
and why the evidence was provided. However,  any such testimony  or evidence has not been  
provided to us and in order to maintain my impartiality, I will not be contacting  the ex-
member of staff. 
Mr A has sent detailed comments around his assertion that H&T over-valued  the items he 
brought in to pawn. However, I dont  think this is enough for me to say that H&T deliberately 
over-valued some or all of the items  Mr A pledged. Ill reiterate what I said in my provisional 
decision. For H&T to over-value the items in this way would mean  they would have exposed 
themselves to financial losses in the event that the items werent  redeemed.  That is 
balanced by Mr As assertion that H&T knew that the items would be redeemed  so there was 
no actual risk of any losses. However,  if what Mr A is saying is true, H&T would still have 
exposed themselves to that risk at any time that he wasnt able to redeem a particular item. 
That is of course possible,  but Im not persuaded thats likely on balance given that risk. 
And, although Mr A has gone into great  detail  about  particular examples of over-valuation, I 
would perhaps  have been more  persuaded had I been given some independent, expert  
assessment of this by a suitably qualified valuer.  Even then, it wouldnt likely be possible to 
be certain to what extent, if any, H&T over-valued what were a very large number of items  
over the years.  I know  this is disappointing for Mr A but I wont be upholding  this particular 
part of his complaint. 
Ref: DRN09676136I appreciate that Mr A feels that his experiences  with H&T should warrant further 
compensation, namely a refund of interest for items that were  redeemed and the items that 
were sold rather than redeemed. I think this comes down to the undoubted  strength of 
feeling Mr A has about his experience.  But I also need to bear in mind how preventable any 
loss was. And I still feel that I cant discount  that Mr A may have taken the items in question  
to other  pawnbrokers bearing  in mind how serious  his condition was. As I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, I am in no way blaming Mr A or holding him responsible for what was 
undoubtedly a very serious and debilitating  illness and addiction. But given the nature of the 
allegations Mr A has made  against H&T, and the limitations I have in requesting  evidence  in 
comparison to a court, I still feel that the award of £500 that I provisionally  decided H&T 
should pay Mr A is a fair one. 
Mr A is of course  under  no obligation  to accept my decision  and, if he decides not to, his 
legal rights about his complaint remain unaffected. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Harvey & Thompson Limited to pay Mr A £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0967613