K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited (LV) cancelled  his 
buildings insurance  policy and declined his claim for damage caused  by burglars.
background
Mr R said when he returned from a short holiday, he found his home had been burgled. He 
made a claim to LV because the burglars had damaged  his property. He said he hadnt 
thought it was worth insuring his contents.
LV arranged for the property to be made  temporarily secure.
After carrying out an investigation, LV said it thought some of the damage claimed for was 
historical and other damage had been  carried out after the burglary, so the claim was partly 
fraudulent. In particular  it said that damage  to a bedroom wall couldnt  be seen on a video of 
the room taken by Mr Rs daughter shortly after his return home. It also wasnt persuaded 
that the burglars had damaged his laminate  flooring by spilling  oil on it. So it declined the 
claim and cancelled the policy.
Mr R complained to LV. He said the video  had been taken to show  a friend rather than to 
provide a detailed record  of the damage. He said the police  report  might not have mentioned 
the damage to the property as there hadnt  been  a thorough investigation by the police. He 
also said LVs contractor  had seen the damage to the flooring. LV didnt change its decision.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
LV had acted  unreasonably. As Mr R didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case its not in dispute that Mr Rs property was broken into. What I need  to consider 
is whether LV has satisfactorily shown that Mr R fraudulently exaggerated his claim.
For LV to decline the claim and cancel  the policy for fraud it must show that there was a 
dishonest attempt by Mr R to deceive  it into paying  for something  he wasnt entitled to. An 
example of fraud is when  a consumer makes a claim that should be paid under the policy  but 
exaggerates what theyre claiming for. So they might say more  damage was caused  to their 
property as a result  of the insured event (in this case, the burglary) than actually was the 
case.
When looking at fraud cases I bear in mind  that fraud is a serious matter. So if thats  what  
the business thinks has happened, I might require  more  evidence than usual. Theres  no 
need for the insurer to prove  its case beyond reasonable  doubt . But it does need to show 
strong and persuasive  proof that its more  likely  than not the consumers claim is 
fraudulent. For the avoidance of doubt,  as our investigator has explained, we make  
decisions based on the facts and evidence  provided  by the parties  and dont carry out 
inspections of properties ourselves. Its not our role to decide whether or not a customers  
claim is fraudulent. What we look at is whether  a business reached a reasonable decision  
about this. 
Ref: DRN00249962Mr R alleged that the burglars had damaged his daughters bedroom wall by scoring  the 
wallpaper with a knife or similar bladed instrument. Ive compared a still image from the 
video footage taken on the day the break-in was discovered with a later photo  of the same 
wall. The damage cant be seen in the video footage.
Mr R said thats because  his daughter  filmed  the room in a hurry  and was standing  at an 
angle about 20 feet away from the damage. Mr R also said that the cut edges of the 
wallpaper were later separated a bit to be clearer for photo purposes.  I can understand LV 
being concerned about  the fact that theres  no sign of any damage to the wallpaper on the 
original video footage. But its possible that the damage might not have been visible  
because the damage was filmed from an angle and the cut edges might have been  a bit 
flatter at the time. Im not persuaded  that this in itself amounts to strong  and persuasive 
proof that the scratches  were caused  after the burglary  with a view to improving Mr Rs 
chance of a successful claim to have this area redecorated. However this was not the only 
evidence that LV relied upon.
Mr R said almost all the walls of all the rooms  were maliciously damaged with scratch  
marks. LVs agent noticed that some of the marks were behind  a textile wall covering and 
around picture hooks.  This suggested to him that a number of the marks were  pre-existing 
and unrelated to the burglary. Mr R said that the textile  wall covering was of important  
religious significance to him and his family  and wasnt  used to cover up historical marks on 
the wall. He also said many of the scratches  werent covered by anything.  
Having looked  at photos of the damage I agree that not all the damage claimed  for looks 
like malicious damage.  In particular one damaged area looks  much  more like damp and 
degraded plaster than the result  of vandalism. Other damage to walls doesnt  look recent 
and might have been  caused by furniture rubbing against the wall.
LV was also concerned that there was no reference  in the police report to the malicious 
damage. The report contains this description  of the damage to the inside of the property:
In addition,  the glazed  sliding  door which  leads  from the conservatory  to the dining  area 
was also discovered  smashed.
Inside,  an untidy  search  had been  carried  out in the bedrooms  whereby  items  have  
been  pulled  out of cupboards  and wardrobes.  The wardrobe  doors  were  also 
discovered  broken.
Inside  the lounge,  drawers  have  been  pulled  out and items  been  turned  upside  down.
Theres nothing in the police report to suggest that Mr R had mentioned the damage to the 
walls either on his original  notification of the crime on the day after hed discovered  it or 
when the police visited his home the following day. Neither is there any mention of the oil 
spillage. Mr R said the police officer only made a rather brief visit and might have 
overlooked some details  when writing his report later. He also said he was told by another  
police officer that burglars have been known to use oil to cover their tracks or fingerprints. 
It was two days after Mr R had discovered  the burglary that the police visited  his home. So 
there was plenty of time for Mr R to discover  all the malicious damage and Id expect him 
to have pointed  it out to the police when they were looking  around  his home. Apart  from 
the malicious damage the police report is an accurate  description  of the state  of Mr Rs 
property after the break-in. In the summary  of property  damage elsewhere in the report it 
Ref: DRN00249963only refers to damage to a door and a window. In view of the fact that Mr R claimed that 
five rooms had suffered  malicious damage  to almost every  wall, I can understand LV 
being suspicious that there  was no mention at all of a significant amount of malicious  
damage in the 26-page report.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R because I dont doubt that part of his claim was genuine. But 
taking into account  the combination of the damage  to the bedroom  wall not being apparent  
in the video footage,  some damage appearing to be historical and no malicious damage 
being mentioned in the police report,  I think it was reasonable for LV to conclude this 
amounted to strong and persuasive proof that Mr R acted knowingly to gain a benefit  he 
wasnt entitled to. This means that LV is entitled  to refuse the entire claim, even if other parts  
of the claim were genuine and not exaggerated  because  the law doesnt  separate those 
genuine parts from the dishonest part.
Mr R has queried why the policy cancellation was backdated. Thats because if a 
consumers claim has been  exaggerated, by law an insurer doesnt have to pay the claim 
and can cancel the policy from the date of the fraudulent act. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0024996