K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax  wont  refund payments from his bank 
accounts that he says he didnt authorise.  
background
Mr H had a current account  and instant saver account with Halifax. Mr H says after looking at his 
bank statements he noticed  that between May 2016  and January 2017  a number of card and 
online transactions were  made from his accounts without his permission. The transactions included  
cash withdrawals, card payments and transfers  between his two accounts. 
Mr H disputed nearly all the transactions on his bank accounts over a period of 11 months.  
For clarity,  and because of the number of transactions, these are attached to my decision as 
an annexure. 
Mr H has explained why he shouldnt  be held responsible for these disputed  transactions. In 
summary Mr Hs said:
he always keeps his bank cards in his possession  at work  he keeps them in his 
clothing, and when hes at home the cards  are usually kept in a drawer  
he believes someone else has gained  access  to his home on a number of occasions  
and was able to take, use  and  replace his bank cards without his knowledge  
the unknown  person  mustve also known or was able to find out what  his PIN was so 
as to be able to authorise all the transactions 
someone else mustve gained access to his online banking details, was transferring  
money from his savings account into his current account and spending it 
Mr H discovered  the disputed transactions in February 2017 after looking at his 
statements
Halifaxs response to the complaint
Mr H complained about Halifaxs decision to decline his claim. Halifax  explained  that it wouldnt be 
refunding the transactions because:
Halifax has no record of Mr H calling to make  a fraud claim or cancel his debit card 
between May 2016 and January 2017 
many  transactions  were made  at locations  Mr H has used  in the past
Mr H told Halifax he believed his PIN had been  compromised because  it was 
recorded in his mobile phone. But when challenged Mr H changed his story and said 
there was a lock on his mobile  phone so he believed the PIN was compromised by 
someone guessing  it or seeing him enter it. But he didnt provide specific  details  on 
how someone could  have done so
a number of transactions in the period  happened  shortly after bank credits  were paid 
into Mr Hs account.  Some of these  were transferred  internally  and some  credited 
from elsewhere. 
Unauthorised transfers  between accounts  are usually  made  to another  persons 
account either within the bank or more  commonly externally. However, the transfers  
occurred between Mr Hs accounts so Halifax couldnt see the benefit to an unknown 
third party.  And it didnt have any reasonable explanation as to how someone other 
than Mr H would have  been  aware  of when credits were received into his account
Ref: DRN09207692genuine transactions are made  within minutes  of disputed transactions and there  was 
no reasonable explanation of how could Mr Hs card could be taken, used and 
replaced on multiple occasions  without Mr Hs knowledge or consent. And they cant  
see how this is possible over a sustained period of time
usually someone  who has access to a persons card and PIN and their online 
banking passwords would remove as much  money as possible. And in as short a 
period as possible. The reason  for this is they would  not know when the card and PIN 
would be reported stolen, nor would they know when online access  may be 
suspended. This didnt happen in this case 
internet banking has a unique identifying  sort code which wouldnt be known by 
anybody else 
Halifax reviewed the disputed payments from Mr Hs accounts and noted  the following;
Instant Saver transactions
31 May 2016 transfer of £300.00 from the instant saver  to Mr Hs current  account    
was made using Mr Hs online banking 
1 June 2016 transfer of £700.00  from Mr Hs instant saver to Mr Hs current  account   
via Mr Hs online banking
2 June 2016 transfer of £500 from Mr Hs current account to Mr Hs saver  account via 
Mr Hs online banking
20 June 2016  cash machine withdrawal  of £100.00 using chip and PIN
7 November 2016 two transfers  of £100.00 from Mr Hs saver  account to Mr Hs 
current account via Mr Hs online banking  
Current account transactions
On 10 October 2016 the following payments were made over a period  of four hours:
£5.50 at 6.16pm
£5.80 at 6.16pm
£10.75 at 6.19pm  (not disputed)
£3.10 at 6.20pm
£6.20 at 6.23pm
£21.75 at 9.16pm
£55.10 at 9.20pm
Halifax said these transactions took place at locations Mr H had used in the past. And that 
Mr H had confirmed hed authorised the transaction at 6.19pm.  But he couldnt explain how 
he didnt have the card at 6.16pm, had it again at 6.19pm  to make a transaction, yet didnt 
have it again at 6.23pm. 
Halifax declined Mr Hs claim on the basis that Mr H either performed or authorised  all the 
disputed transactions  himself.
investigators view
Our investigator didnt  think the evidence supported Mr Hs version of events. On balance  she 
thought the disputed transactions had been  authorised by Mr H. She said the genuine cards and 
PINs had been  used  for all the transactions.  And she wasnt  satisfied there was a plausible  
Ref: DRN09207693explanation for how an unknown third party wouldve managed  to gain possession of Mr Hs bank 
cards and PINs. She also noted that Mr H had confirmed that genuine transactions had been made 
in between disputed  transactions,  which on one occasion was within three  minutes of disputed  
transactions.
The investigator didnt  think the pattern of disputed transactions fit with what a fraudster might  do  
in particular she noted that there were transfers  of money between Mr Hs savings and current 
accounts. She also noted Mr Hs online banking was used on several  occasions  during the period  
of May 2016  and January  2017, which wouldve required  specific information to be input. And there 
wasnt a reasonable explanation as to how this information wouldve become known to another 
person. 
The investigator also said that during the 11 month period there  were  instances of payments being  
verified via SMS to Mr Hs mobile phone. And in order for someone  other  than Mr H to authorise 
these types of payments they wouldve needed  to be in possession of Mr Hs mobile phone as well 
as being aware  of Mr Hs online log-in information.  Overall, she thought it was unlikely someone 
other than Mr H had made  the transactions. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look 
at everything.
On 9 May 2019,  I issued a provisional  decision on Mr Hs complaint, which  is attached and 
forms part of this decision. In my provisional decision, I explained my conclusions and 
reasons why I didnt  think it was unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Mr H authorised  
the transactions. This was because:
the disputed  transactions  were authorised using Mr Hs genuine cards (chip) and PINs
theres no convincing  explanation for how a third party could have taken  possession  of 
Mr Hs cards and could  have known Mr Hs PIN
theres no reasonable explanation for how a third party  could have known Mr Hs online 
banking information  or taken possession  of Mr Hs mobile phone
theres no reasonable explanation as to why someone other  than Mr H would move money 
between his two accounts
theres no convincing  explanation for how a third party could make the volume  of 
transactions Mr Hs disputes  over a period of 11 months
Based on the evidence,  overall, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr H made or authorised  
the transactions that he disputed. 
I asked Mr H and Halifax to let me have  any further information they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. Halifax didnt have anything  further  to add. Mr H said he 
didnt accept my provisional decision. And that he intended to pursue the matter through  the 
courts. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H and Halifax havent made any more comments, or offered any more evidence, my 
findings about this complaint havent  changed. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN09207694my final decision
For the reason  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09207695COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax wont refund payments from his bank accounts 
that he says he didnt authorise. 
background
Mr H has a current account  and instant saver account with Halifax. Mr H says after looking  at his bank 
statements he noticed that between May 2016 and January 2017 a number of card and online transactions 
were made from his accounts without  his permission. The transactions included cash withdrawals, card 
payments and transfers between his two accounts. 
Mr H disputes nearly all the transactions on his bank  account over a period of 11 months. For clarity, 
and because  of the number of transactions, these are attached to my decision as an annexure. 
Mr H has explained why he shouldnt be held responsible  for these  disputed transactions. In summary 
Mr Hs says:
he always keeps his bank cards in his possession   at work he keeps them in his clothing, 
and when  hes at home the cards are usually  kept in a drawer 
he believes someone else has gained access to his home  on a number of occasions and was 
able to take, use  and replace his bank  cards  without  his knowledge 
the unknown person mustve also known or was able to find out what  his PIN was so as to be 
able to authorise all the transactions  
someone else mustve  gained access to his online banking  details, was transferring  money  
from his savings  account into his current account and spending it 
Mr H discovered the disputed transactions in February 2017 after looking at his statements
Halifaxs response to the complaint
Mr H complained about Halifaxs decision to decline  his claim. Halifax explained  that it wouldnt be refunding  
the transactions because:
Halifax has no record  of Mr H calling to make a fraud claim or cancel his debit card between  
May 2016 and January 2017 
many transactions were  made at locations Mr H has used in the past
Mr H told Halifax he believed  his PIN had been  compromised because  it was recorded in his 
mobile phone. But when challenged  Mr H changed his story and said there was a lock on his 
mobile phone so he believed the PIN was compromised by someone guessing it or seeing  
him enter it. But didnt provide specific details on how someone could have done so
a number of transactions in the period  happened shortly after bank credits were paid into Mr 
Hs account. Some of these were transferred internally and some credited from elsewhere. 
Unauthorised transfers  between  accounts are usually made to another  persons account  
either within the bank or more commonly  externally.  However, the transfers occurred between  
Mr Hs accounts so Halifax couldnt  see the benefit to an unknown  third party. And it didnt  
have any reasonable  explanation as to how someone other than Mr H would have been  
aware of when credits were received into his account
genuine transactions are made within minutes of disputed transactions and there was no 
reasonable explanation  of how could Mr Hs card could be taken, used and replaced on 
multiple occasions  without  Mr Hs knowledge or consent. And they cant see how this is 
possible over a sustained period of time
Ref: DRN09207696usually someone who has access to a persons card and PIN and also their online banking 
passwords would remove as much  money as possible.  And in as short a period as possible.  
The reason  for this is they would  not know when the card and PIN would be reported stolen, 
nor would they know when online access may be suspended. This didnt happen in this case  
internet banking  has a unique identifying  sort code which wouldnt be known by anybody  else
Halifax reviewed the disputed payments from Mr Hs accounts and noted  the following;
Instant Saver  transactions
31 May 2016 transfer of £300.00 from the instant saver to Mr Hs current account   was  made 
using Mr Hs online banking 
1 June 2016 transfer  of £700.00 from Mr Hs instant  saver to Mr Hs current  account    via  Mr 
Hs online banking
2 June 2016 transfer  of £500 from Mr Hs current  account  to Mr Hs saver account  via Mr Hs 
online banking
20 June 2016 cash machine withdrawal of £100.00 using chip and PIN
7 November 2016  two transfers of £100.00 from Mr Hs saver  account to Mr Hs current 
account via Mr Hs online banking 
Current account transactions
On 10 October 2016 the following payments were made over a period  of four hours:
£5.50  at 6.16pm
£5.80  at 6.16pm
£10.75 at 6.19pm (not disputed)
£3.10  at 6.20pm
£6.20  at 6.23pm
£21.75 at 9.16pm
£55.10 at 9.20pm
Halifax said these transactions took place at locations Mr H had used in the past. And that Mr H had 
confirmed hed authorised the transaction at 6.19pm. But he couldnt explain how he didnt have the 
card at 6.16pm,  had it again at 6.19pm  to make  a transaction, yet didnt have it again  at 6.23pm. 
Halifax declined Mr Hs claim on the basis that Mr H either performed  or authorised all the disputed  
transactions himself.
investigators view
Our investigator didnt think the evidence  supported Mr Hs version of events. On balance  she thought  the 
disputed transactions had been authorised by Mr H. She said the genuine cards and PINs had been used for 
all the transactions. And she wasnt satisfied there was a plausible explanation for how an unknown third 
party wouldve managed to gain possession  of Mr Hs bank cards and PINs. She also noted that Mr H had 
confirmed that genuine transactions had been made in between disputed transactions, which on one 
occasion was within three minutes of disputed transactions.
The investigator didnt think the pattern  of disputed transactions fit with what  a fraudster might do  in 
particular she noted that there were transfers of money between Mr Hs savings and current  accounts. She 
also noted Mr Hs online  banking was used on several  occasions, which  wouldve  required specific  
information to be input, during the period of May 2016 to January 2017. And there wasnt a reasonable 
explanation as to how this information wouldve become known to another  person. 
The investigator also said that during the 11 month period there were  instances of payments being verified 
via SMS to Mr Hs mobile phone. And in order for someone other than Mr H to authorise these types of 
payments they would  also have needed to be in possession of Mr Hs mobile  phone  as well as being aware 
Ref: DRN09207697of Mr Hs online log-in information. Overall, she thought it was unlikely someone other than Mr H had made  
the transactions. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at everything.
my provisional  findings
The rules of our service  mean  that I have to determine this complaint by reference to what  I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what  is fair and 
reasonable, Im required to take into account:  relevant  law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what I consider  to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind I shall start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant  considerations to 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. Of particular relevance  to my decision  about what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  are the Payment Services Regulations  (the 
PSRs 2009) which apply to transfers like the ones made from Mr Hs account.  Among other things the 
PSRs 2009 say:
Consent and withdrawal  of consent
55. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been authorised by the payer for the 
purposes of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent  to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57. (1) A payment service  user to whom  a payment  instrument has been issued must
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its issue 
and use; and
(b)notify the payment  service provider  in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument.
(2) The payment service  user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable  steps to 
keep its personalised security features  safe.
Evidence  on authentication and execution of payment  transactions
60.(1)  Where a payment  service user
(a)denies  having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed, it is for the payment 
service provider  to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated, accurately  
recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and not affected  by a 
technical breakdown or some other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which a payment service 
provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including  its personalised  security 
features.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having authorised an executed payment transaction, the 
use of a payment instrument  recorded by the payment service provider  is not in itself necessarily 
sufficient to prove either that
Ref: DRN09207698(a)the payment  transaction was authorised by the payer; or 
(a)the payer acted fraudulently or failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with regulation 
57.
Payment service providers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised  or incorrectly  executed payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment  transaction  was not authorised  in accordance with 
regulation 55, the payment  service provider  must immediately
(a)refund the amount  of the unauthorised  payment transaction to the payer; and
(b)where applicable,  restore  the debited payment  account to the state it would have been in had 
the unauthorised payment transaction  not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised payment transaction
62. (1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer is liable  up to a maximum of £50 for any losses 
incurred in respect  of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a)from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b)where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment  
instrument safe, from the misappropriation  of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred  in respect of an unauthorised payment transaction where 
the payer
(a)has acted fraudulently;  or
(b)has with intent or gross  negligence failed to comply with regulation  57.
Taking all the relevant considerations into account, including those set out above, my consideration  
about whats fair and reasonable in this case must first address whether the disputed transactions  
were authorised by Mr H.
were the disputed transactions authorised  by Mr H?
Theres no suggestion in this case that anything other than Mr Hs genuine card and PIN were  used to 
make the disputed transactions. So Ive gone on to consider the possible explanations for how the 
disputed transactions were made using Mr Hs genuine card and PIN. These are that:
someone was able to take Mr Hs card and use it to make the transactions without his 
authority or consent
someone with Mr Hs authority used his card and PIN to make the transactions or 
Mr H received the card and PIN and used them to make the transactions
Ive considered which I think  is the most likely taking into account Halifaxs records and Mr Hs 
description of events. I acknowledge  that I cant know for sure what occurred; its a decision I must 
make on the balance of evidence. Having  done so, I think its more likely than not that Mr H either 
made the withdrawals and, card payments himself, or authorised a third party to make them.  Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN09207699Halifaxs records indicate that Mr H reported his cards lost in January 2016. And that Halifax issued Mr H 
with new cards  and PINs. Its not in dispute that Mr H went into branch and collected  his new cards and PIN. 
According to Halifaxs  records this was arranged at Mr Hs request due to issues he was experiencing with 
his post at his address.
I can see that the cards Mr H collected from branch were  used to make the disputed transactions. So Im 
satisfied that the card payments and withdrawals  could  only have been made  by someone who had both the 
cards and PIN. They couldnt have been made by someone  who had only one of those  items.  
Mr H has told the investigator that he hasnt disclosed his PIN to another person. Ive also kept in mind that 
Mr H has told us that his bank cards are always in his possession. Hes said sometimes when I was at work 
my belongings were either in my jacket pocket in the belongings area or in my pocket. Otherwise if I was at 
home it could  be in my draws sometimes on me or sometimes on the sides.  Mr H has explained that he 
does have friends  visit him at his address who would  have access to draws  and his phone. But even if I 
accept someone else had access to Mr Hs address  or work belongings area, theyd have had to go there,  
remove Mr Hs cards, be aware  of Mr Hs PIN, make numerous transactions, and return the cards without 
arousing any suspicion. 
For example, Mr H has told our investigator that a transaction on 10 October  2017 at 6.19pm for 
£10.75 at a fast food restaurant was made by him. To support Mr Hs complaint  that he didnt  
authorise all the seven  transactions Ive set out earlier,  Id need to accept,  that somebody was able to 
take Mr Hs card at 6.16pm and replace it without Mr Hs knowledge in time for Mr H to be able to use 
his card to buy food at 6.19pm. And then take it again,  only four minutes later, to carry out two further 
transactions, without being detected.
I cant  ignore that Mr H has disputed all but a handful of transactions over a period  of 11 months.  This 
also strikes me as unlikely that whoever  had Mr Hs card wouldve taken and replaced it on numerous 
occasions over a period  of 11 months  running the risk at any time that Mr H wouldve realised he 
didnt have a card and told the bank. So on balance  I think  its unlikely that all of this couldve 
happened without Mr Hs involvement. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that Mr H has told us that he called Halifax  to report his bank 
cards lost on a number  of occasions. And hes provided  us with copies of his phone  bill as evidence that he 
made these  calls. I accept that the phone bills show that Mr H did call Halifax. Unfortunately, I dont have any 
recordings of the content of these calls. So I dont know what was discussed. Halifax  has also confirmed that 
it hasnt  issued Mr H with any new cards during this period. So I dont think  Mr H lost any of his cards 
between May 2016 and January 2017. 
online transactions
Mr H says there are a number  of transactions where  funds have been moved  between  his current  account  
and his savings  account  which he hasnt made. There are also a number of online payments  going out of his 
accounts, which he says he didnt authorise.
Its my understanding,  that in order for Mr Hs online  banking to work, he needed to enter his 
username and security log-on details. Mr H himself  shouldve been the only person who knew these  
details. Mr H says he hasnt  given these details to anyone. And he cant explain how someone would 
be able to access his online  banking. However,  he did tell the investigator that his iPad, which  he 
uses for on line banking, automatically saves his online username. And that he normally keeps his 
iPad in a drawer at home. So he says its possible someone visiting his home  wouldve  been able to 
find out his online username  if they found his iPad. 
Ref: DRN092076910Ive thought about this carefully. Having  done so, I find it difficult to believe that a person visiting  Mr 
Hs home, gained access to his iPad, in the manner Mr H explains. And even  if I accept  this did 
happen, I think its also unlikely that someone was able to engineer events so that they could watch 
Mr H entering his security code  into his iPad, and then ensure they were left alone with the device so 
they could carry out online transactions on numerous occasions over a lengthy period. 
I can also see from Mr Hs internet banking  log that he regularly logged on to check his account on 
days when he says disputed  transactions were being  made. For instance I can see that there were no 
disputed online  transactions between 1 and 3 October 2016   however someone was accessing Mr 
Hs online banking  during this time. Yet numerous disputed payments were  made  from Mr Hs 
accounts prior to 3 October. So these  transactions wouldve been visible when  Mr H logged  on. But 
no reports were made to Halifax. This evidence calls into question why Mr H didnt report  what  was 
happening immediately  if he believed his accounts  had been compromised.
From looking  at the information provided  by Halifax, I can also see there are instances where Halifax has 
verified disputed online transactions by sending Mr H an SMS to his mobile phone number  as part of its 
security processes. For example, on 16 October 2016 between 9.48pm  and 10.15pm  a new payee was set 
up using Mr Hs online banking  to Ms S, who Mr H has told us is his friends girlfriend.  A payment of £10 was 
then made  from Mr Hs account to Miss S. 
Mr H says he didnt authorise this payment. But I can see that a confirmation SMS was sent to the same 
mobile telephone number Mr H has provided to us. So in order  for me to conclude  Mr H didnt  make this 
transaction, Id have  to be satisfied that someone became aware  of Mr Hs online security details, had 
access to his iPad, and managed to gain access to Mr Hs mobile  phone  to acknowledge  the SMS. Im 
simply not persuaded that this happened.
Mr H has also told us that a number of unauthorised online transfers were made  between  his 
accounts. Hes told us that on 31 May 2016, £300  was moved from his savings account into his 
current account. And on 1 June 2016, £700  was transferred from his savings account to his current  
account. On 7 November 2016 a further two transfers of £100 were  made. 
When looking  at these transactions Ive kept in mind  that Mr H has told us that both his accounts were  
being accessed by an unknown  third party.  So I cant see that theyd be any need for a fraudster  to 
move funds between the accounts if they already had access to all of Mr Hs money. On balance,  I 
cant see why someone other  than Mr H himself,  would do this.
other considerations
I know Mr H has told the investigator that he received a letter informing him that hed won the lottery. 
And that he gave his account number  and sort code to an individual expecting  a payment of over 
£700. Mr H says he never received any money. But even if I accept  this happened I dont have any 
evidence that this was in anyway linked to the disputed transactions.   
More recently Mr H has suggested Halifax  staff are someway involved in the fraud. This is a very serious 
allegation and isnt one we are equipped to handle  here. We are an informal dispute resolution service  and 
an allegation of fraud would be best referred to the courts. Thats an option thats still available  to Mr H. 
However, on the basis of the evidence Ive looked at I havent seen anything  to suggest that this was the 
case.
In conclusion, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude that Mr H authorised the transactions. 
This is because:
the disputed transactions were authorised  using  Mr Hs genuine cards  (chip) and PINs
theres no convincing explanation for how a third party could have taken possession  of 
Mr Hs cards and could  have known Mr Hs PIN
theres no reasonable  explanation for how a third party could have known Mr Hs online banking 
information or taken possession of Mr Hs mobile phone
Ref: DRN092076911theres no reasonable  explanation as to why someone  other than Mr H would move money between 
his two accounts
theres no convincing explanation for how a third party could make the volume of transactions  Mr Hs 
disputes over a period  of 11 months
On what  Ive seen so far, I think its fair and reasonable  for Halifax to refuse a refund because, overall, I think 
its more likely  than not that Mr H made or authorised the transactions that he disputes.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint. 
I now invite  Mr H and Bank of Scotland plc to give me any further  information theyd like me to 
consider before I make  my final decision.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN092076912Annexure
Ref: DRN092076913
Ref: DRN092076914
Ref: DRN092076915
Ref: DRN092076916
Ref: DRN092076917
Ref: DRN092076918
Ref: DRN092076919
Ref: DRN0920769