K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy in 1994.  Due to the time that has passed since the sale its 
not clear when they applied for their mortgage or if the mortgage was in joint names. But I 
will look at this as if the mortgage was in joint names  and it was taken at the same time as 
taking out the PPI in 1994.  Mr and Mrs N have told us they applied for the PPI at a meeting 
in branch.
Due to the time since the sale HSBC doesnt have all the paperwork or the actual policy  
document from the time.  This isnt unusual or surprising as businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely.  HSBC has referred  us to a policy  document from 1995  and a policy 
summary from before the sale. I think its reasonable to use these documents and I think  
they likely  reflected the terms  of the policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr N only (not Mrs N) for accident, sickness, and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £300 a month  
towards Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it 
cost £17.82 a month. 
At the time,  Mr N was employed  as an electrician.  He has told us he was entitled to normal 
sick pay after three waiting days  I have taken this to mean statutory sick pay and Mr N also 
said he had £500  worth of savings which was easily accessible. Mr N has said he had 
various medical conditions including an adenoidectomy and tonsillectomy in around 1950  
and later stress. Mr N told us initially this stress was in 1985 but later clarified that he 
suffered stress in 1997.  
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed, and it told us the 
account closed  before 2008. 
Mr and Mrs Ns representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ns representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs N 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ns representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN07305982claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs N about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs N and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs N received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ns. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN07305983There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN07305984misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs N, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs N 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs N 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs N know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
As Ive explained theres not much  paperwork from the time. But where  the evidence is 
incomplete, I will make my decision based  on the balance of probabilities- that is whats  
more likely to have  happened taking into account,  the evidence  thats available, what the 
parties have told me and what  we know about these  types  of sales.
I can see the policy was in Mr Ns name  only which to me indicates its likely that some sort 
of choice was made.  And its also likely that the PPI appeared on Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage 
statements  so if they wanted to question it they could have done so at any time with 
HSBC. I havent seen evidence that they did this.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs N knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC cant say whether  advice was provided. Mr and Mrs N say this sale took place in a 
meeting in branch. They havent  been  able to tell me whether  they received advice. 
However, to be fair I have  looked at this sale as if advice was provided as this put more  
responsibility on HSBC  for how it sold the policy.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill, in particular  
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs N. It seems  Mr and Mrs N cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  There  is no specific  evidence to show 
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr N would have been caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest HSBC  considered whether Mr N had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN07305985Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs N given their circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded HSBC advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs N, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr N met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs N had a need  for the policy  Mr N would likely have only received 
statutory sick pay if he was unable  to work  due to illness,  his redundancy benefits  are 
likely to be limited and Mr and Mrs N have told me that each had about  £500 savings 
they could fall back on. But this policy would have allowed them  to keep their savings 
intact or use them for other day-to day living costs or to manage other  important 
expenses if things  went wrong.  The policy would have  helped  Mr and Mrs N manage 
the consequences if Mr N was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs N. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs N. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ns employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr N has told 
us about his adenoidectomy and tonsillectomy in around 1950 but this happened 
many years before  the sale took place, likely  when  Mr N was a child and after that 
there doesnt appear to have been  any problems. Mr N has also told us about stress 
he suffered. In his questionnaire to this service he said this was in 1985. But he later 
clarified that his stress was in 1997  so this happened after the date of the sale.  
There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr N be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ns 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs N be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr N was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs N 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN07305986But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs N agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs N Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr and Mrs N all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ns. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ns representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs N about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs N has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs N? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs N suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
N. So, I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs N suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs N would have still taken out the policy, had HSBC  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs N, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs N has suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things 
Ref: DRN07305987properly, Mr and Mrs N would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs N say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs N had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  him that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, I cant say what information Mr and Mrs N were given about 
the policy. I cant say whether the cost, benefit  or information about the limitations and 
exclusions were as clear as it should  have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I cant say HSBC told them the exact  premium  at the point Mr and 
Mrs N applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs N would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a while, so if the costs 
were significantly  at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might 
have raised that with HSBC at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs N would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs N would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ns 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs N thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr N knew  about or 
should reasonably have known  about on the start date or that he received treatment 
or advice  for during  the 12 months  before the start date and which comes back  within 
12 months of the start date. It also excluded any chronic  or continuing  disease  Mr N 
had on the start date.
Ref: DRN07305988The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr N 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr N be unable  to 
do his own job, or any similar gainful  occupation  which Mr N may be reasonably 
expected to undertake bearing in mind Mr Ns knowledge and training or following 
any other occupation;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs N pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs N from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr N was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr N wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions. Mr N told us about  
an adenoidectomy and tonsillectomy in 1950  but theres nothing to suggest  this caused 
ongoing problems  and this had happened many years before the sale took place. Mr N also 
told us about stress  he suffered around 1997  which was after the date of the sale.  And Mr N 
was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good reasons  to take the policy 
out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs N would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs N had known Mr N could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
be qualified  for but also unable  to do any job, it might have played into their thinking about  
what they would do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although given 
Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in 
taking out the cover.
HSBC may not have  told Mr and Mrs N that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs N would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs N be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Ref: DRN07305989Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs N would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr N was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs N would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs N would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs N found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs N believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs N in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs N compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs N think HSBC misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
Ref: DRN073059810to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs N, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1994  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ns representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs N and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC  had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs N in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 December  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0730598