K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
Mr W and Ms W took out a joint mortgage in 1992. 
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1999 when Mr W and Ms W were  applying 
for some further borrowing on their mortgage  account. The PPI protected their total 
mortgage repayments in the event that Mr W couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W and Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr W and Ms W mainly complain that they were told they had to take out the PPI in order to 
get the advance on their mortgage. They also told us they dont feel they needed PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr W and Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr W and Ms W to remember exactly  what  was 
discussed around 20 years ago when they took out the policy.  This means  that what  they 
say about the way they were sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  
their complaint.
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely given the 
available information  and the wider  circumstances. 
Mr W and Ms W filled in their details  and they both signed a separate  PPI application  form in 
order to take out cover  for Mr W. Ive taken into account their comments, including  what  
theyve said about  feeling under pressure to take out PPI. 
But it looks  like Mr W and Ms W didnt  take out PPI when their mortgage started  their 
mortgage had already  been running  for some  years without PPI. And theres nothing  in the 
loan paperwork Ive seen  that wouldve led Mr W and Ms W to think they had to take out PPI 
with their new borrowing. So, on balance,  at the time I think that Mr and Ms W wouldve 
understood that PPI wasnt something they had to have just to get the advance they wanted. 
Ref: DRN09418762The mortgage was a major financial  commitment  repayable over a substantial  number of 
years. Mr W and Ms W were borrowing additional  money and increasing the overall amount 
of their outstanding  mortgage. Mr W and Ms Ws home wouldve been  at risk if their 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and 
significantly better protection than they had otherwise. So, I can see why Mr W and Ms W 
mightve felt PPI was useful to have  even  if they didnt choose to take it out at the start of 
their mortgage.  
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten these details as this happened  such  a long 
time ago. But, based on the information  Ive seen,  I think its likely that Mr W and Ms W 
decided they wanted the benefits that PPI offered when they increased their mortgage 
borrowing. And, on balance, I find that they chose to buy the policy knowing it was up to 
them to say if they wanted to take it out.
Lloyds says it wouldve  advised Mr W to have PPI. And it looks to me like that 
recommendation was suitable based on what Ive seen of Mr W and Ms Ws circumstances 
at the time. I think its likely that they wouldve found  it hard to afford  to keep up the monthly 
mortgage repayments without Mr Ws income  coming into the household  as he was 
substantially the main earner at the time.  
Ive taken into account Mr Ws comments, including what hes told us about  his work benefits 
and sick pay. But the policy  wouldve  paid out in addition to his sick pay, and in full for longer 
than Mr W told us he wouldve received sick pay from his employers  - up to 12 months  per 
claim. 
And it wouldve also paid out if Mr W lost his job unexpectedly and he was out of work.  As no 
job can be guaranteed to be secure  indefinitely I think  this couldve been useful cover for 
Mr W and Ms W to have.  
The monthly benefit wouldve covered Mr W and Ms Ws mortgage repayments  and also 
paid some extra to help them with their household bills and other  costs.  
Mr W couldve made multiple claims on the policy if hed needed  to. So the policy gave  
Mr W and Ms W long term protection for their mortgage. I think  that couldve been an 
important consideration for them at the time.  
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr W was off work sick. And 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving  Mr W and Ms W some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Overall, I think the policy was suitable  for Mr W and Ms W.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr W was affected 
by any of the usual conditions  limiting  the policys main benefits.  So, I dont think having  
more information  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  Mr W and Ms Ws 
decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr W and Ms W when they bought  the policy.  
But, from what Ive seen,  the monthly  premiums werent unaffordable for Mr W and Ms W 
and they couldve  always cancelled the PPI if their circumstances changed. 
Ref: DRN09418763Looking at the benefits PPI offered them, I think it unlikely Mr W and Ms W wouldve made  a 
different decision about  having PPI even if better information had been provided as the 
policy was useful for Mr W and Ms W to have. This is borne out by the fact that Lloyds told 
us that Mr W claimed on the policy. 
Looked at overall, I dont  find that Mr W and Ms W have lost out as a result of anything that 
Lloyds mightve done  wrong. So it doesnt  need  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W and Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0941876