K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under his recovery  policy 
damaged his car when its recovery driver was unloading his car after towing it off the 
highway to repair a flat tyre.
background
Mr Ss wife suffered a flat tyre whilst  driving. Mr S called his recovery  company to attend to 
her. The recovery  driver uploaded the car to bring it back home. Mr S said when the 
recovery driver was unloading the car, a strap on the tow truck  caught the bumper causing 
damage.
Mr S claimed the repair costs of the damage  from IPA which  ultimately refused to accept the 
recovery driver caused it and therefore didnt pay his claim. So he brought his complaint to 
us.
The investigator was of the view that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. IPA didnt  respond  
until after the process for an ombudsman decision was started. It then didnt agree.
So Mr Ss complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Its clear to me from the evidence that the recovery driver caused damage  to this car. As 
according to Mr S, he initially admitted it but then changed his mind  once IPA got involved. 
From the dash cam footage of the police  car which was on the hard shoulder  with Mrs S and 
indeed what that police  officer also said, who was caring for Mrs S whilst she was waiting for 
the recovery driver,  it does seem the recovery driver  took many more  photographs of the car 
than he later admitted  to. Its also clear from the dash  cam that there  was no debris 
anywhere in the vicinity of where  Mrs S was parked,  which  might  have caused any damage. 
Had IPA not lost this initial  dash cam footage sent to it by Mr S or potentially destroyed as it 
later said,  it would have  been fairly obvious  from the outset that the recovery  driver was 
being less than truthful of the circumstances.   
Its also clear  to me on the evidence that Mrs S simply suffered a flat tyre and consequently  
the likelihood of this bumper damage being  caused  by this is fairly untenable,  given Mrs S 
didnt attempt to fix the tyre herself and instead Mr S called the recovery  agents. 
Its also clear  to me on the evidence of Mr S and the photos that he took at the time the 
delivery driver was delivering getting his car back to his home  that the damage to his bumper 
occurred then. 
So I find no merit in IPA refusing to pay for this claim and I think its been unreasonable  in 
doing so. More especially, given the comment in IPAs file where the case  handler  dealing 
with this complaint  for AXA also believed the damage was caused by the recovery driver 
Ref: DRN02550622after they had looked at the photographs. This is documented in its file on 18 February 2019  
and timed at 16.38.
Therefore, I consider  IPA should pay for the repairs to Mr Ss car. He has provided some  
estimates of the cost,  which  obviously now need  to be updated given the passage of time. I 
expect IPA to be reasonable about  accepting any updated estimate quickly and providing the 
costs of the estimated repairs. 
If its the case Mr S has now decided to repair his car himself, IPA should refund him and 
pay interest of 8% simple  per year from the date he paid for the repairs  to the date it refunds 
him.
I also consider IPAs unreasonable stance on this issue has caused  Mr S some  trouble and 
upset and so I consider  it must compensate him. I think  the figure of £75 recommended by 
the investigator to be reasonable in and in line with other awards I have made  in similar 
circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following:
Pay the costs  of the repair of Mr Ss car from any updated estimates he now 
provides.
If its the case Mr S has repaired his car himself, refund Mr S the costs of the repairs, 
adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr S paid for the repairs to the 
date it refunds him. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest,  appropriate 
documentation should be provided  to Mr S for HMRC  purposes. 
Pay Mr S the sum of £75 compensation for the trouble  and upset its caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0255062