K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them  a packaged  bank 
account which it called the Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA).
background
Mr and Mrs B took out an URCA  in 2012. The fee was £15 a month. 
The URCA benefits included mobile phone insurance, worldwide  family  travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, home  emergency cover, interest  and fee free overdrafts  of up to £300 and 
better rates for higher overdrafts.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs B disagree so the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Firstly Id like to assure Mr and Mrs B that Ive listened to the recordings of two phone calls 
that Mrs B has made to our adjudicators. 
In her calls Mrs B says that she had recently seen  in the media that there had been 
extensive mis-selling of financial products  and this had caused  her to reflect on the sale of 
the URCA to them in 2012.
Mr and Mrs B have  made it clear  that the essence of their complaint is that in the meeting 
when the URCA was sold to them, Bank of Scotland initially  told them that fee free current 
accounts no longer  existed  and were not available to them and so they were sold an URCA.  
In the same  meeting after agreeing to the URCA  they were  then offered two fee free current  
accounts which they accepted and took out. They believe this was a breach of trust with the 
bank and that they ended up with something they didnt want.
Mr and Mrs B are also very unhappy that they feel they left the meeting thinking the URCA 
would cost them £5 per month when in fact it cost them £15 a month although they would 
get a £5 per month discount if they put more than £1000 per month into the account.
Mrs B says that they acknowledge  that they did use the benefits of the account but they 
would rather have had a fee free account and bought those benefits elsewhere.
Ive considered this very carefully and I think it might be helpful  to Mr and Mrs B if I explain 
how I approach each part as I go along.
The first thing Ive looked  at is the evidence Bank of Scotland has given about  the three 
accounts Mr and Mrs B took out in July 2012. Mr and Mrs B say that they had become 
unhappy with their previous bank due to poor customer service and were approaching  Bank  
of Scotland for a fee free current account.
Ref: DRN03343482The evidence Bank of Scotland has provided shows that they took out the URCA which is a 
fee paying current account and, on the same  day, two savings accounts. These savings 
accounts were not equivalent to or the same  as fee free current accounts. So whilst I dont 
doubt their honest  recollections, I think their memory of the discussion is mistaken in this 
respect. And in my view the evidence shows that they were not offered fee free current  
accounts after taking  out the URCA.
Ill now go on to consider whether Mr and Mrs B were aware  the fee paying URCA was 
optional, whether they knew they could have a fee free current  account  if they wanted  one 
and whether they were given a clear  choice in taking out the URCA.
Again, I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Bs honest recollections, but I think  its more  likely than not 
that they were  aware that they could get a fee free account. I say this because  fee free 
accounts were widely  advertised and available from banks,  building societies and other  
financial institutions. And Mrs and Mrs B had had a fee free account at their previous bank 
for many years. 
So, although  they say they feel they were pressured into taking  the URCA in their meeting 
with Bank  of Scotland, I think  its more likely  than not that they were being  told it was a good 
product to take out but they knew they could get an account without a fee there or elsewhere 
if they wanted it. 
So I think Mr and Mrs B were aware  they had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Mr and Mrs B to take it, 
but Mr and Mrs B says it did. Ive decided  to look at this complaint as an advised  sale as it is 
to Mr and Mrs Bs advantage and doesnt affect  the outcome of my decision. So, Bank of 
Scotland needed to provide Mr and Mrs B with sufficient information  about the URCA  to 
make an informed choice.  And in recommending  the URCA, it also needed to take adequate 
steps to ensure that the URCA  was a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but in my view the URCA was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs B and they had clearly  been  told about the account. I say this because Mr and 
Mrs B did go on to use the benefits although they say they had to re-organise their affairs  to 
make best use of the account. I can understand that this was not easy for them but it is not 
uncommon for consumers  to do this and having to do so does not make the URCA 
unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs B say that they left the meeting  thinking  that the account cost £5 a month,  when 
in fact it cost £15 a month; or £10 a month if £1000 went through  the account  each  month. 
This is not a simple  arrangement  so I can understand if the communication wasnt clear. But 
if Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with the fees once  they understood them,  they could have 
closed the account immediately, but they didnt.  So it appears they must have found the fees 
acceptable at that time.
So, although  I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, in my view they 
knew they had a choice whether to take out the URCA or not and they decided to take it; and 
the URCA was suitable for them so they have not lost out as result  of anything Bank of 
Scotland may have done wrong. 
Ref: DRN03343483my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0334348