K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the performance of the Strategic Investment Allocation (SIA) Fund in
a portfolio provided by Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (ASC).
background
In February 2015,  Mr A invested  £819,170.24 of his pension into an ASC Target  Return
investment portfolio, with the aim of achieving  5% growth.
Whilst the main investments performed well, the SIA did not, resulting in the portfolio losing
an annualised loss of -1.6%. Mr A withdrew  £210,000 over the investment period, with a final
withdrawal of £569,841.72 on 17 July 2018.
Mr A says that the SIA fund introduced unacceptable levels  of risk and volatility  to the overall
portfolio and was incompetently managed. He complains that the SIA fund was managed  at
ASCs own discretion and they strayed  well outside  the risk mandate.
ASC say Mr As risk profile was undertaken by his independent financial adviser (the
adviser) and he assessed suitability of the portfolio for Mr As needs. The adviser selected
the target  return and a SIPP  proposal was drafted by ASC, targeted  to Mr A as a medium
low risk investor. The overall portfolio was then managed on a discretionary basis  in line with
the risk mandate, with quarterly  reports and regular reviews being provided.
ASC say that the SIA fund should  not be viewed in isolation.  Its diversification  offset  the risks
taken elsewhere  in the portfolio, by investing in sources which didnt  correlate to traditional
asset classes and by hedging  strategies to remove  exposure  from underlying markets.
Historically the target return  portfolios had performed  well, but ASC accept  that the
strategies they employed with the SIA fund during Mr As period of investment were largely
unsuccessful. ASC say they were transparent about  the funds performance at the regular
review points and whilst that performance was disappointing overall the portfolio continued
to be managed within Mr As risk profile.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and decided  not to uphold it. He noted  that ASC
had not provided  advice  or a recommendation, nor had they assessed  Mr As attitude  to risk.
Mr As adviser had undertaken these steps. The crux of Mr As complaint was about
performance of the investment, in particular,  the SIA fund. Our adjudicator  noted  that ASC
hadnt provided any guarantees as to the level of performance of the portfolio. Short  term
losses and an annualised  return  of -1.6%  were within the expected  range  of the mandate.
Mr A had entered into discretionary  management  agreement with ASC,  which  meant they
had discretion as to which investment  strategies to deploy. Although Mr A was disappointed
with the performance, there  was no evidence that ASC had acted  negligently or outside  their
remit. Our investigator considered that substantial information had been  provided about the
SIA fund in the quarterly  reports.
Mr A did not agree  with the view. He felt strongly that ASC placed a significant portion of
his fund into derivatives  and other  vehicles that carried  a far higher risk than mandated,
through the SIA fund. Mr A pointed out that he had no choice but to invest in the SIA
fund as it was an integral  part of the target return portfolio. Further,  Mr A was disappointed
that when hed raised concerns with ASC in 2017,  he was told not to treat the SIA as a
standalone investment. Mr A also complained about  a lack of transparency around the SIA
fund. Mr A accepted that he received quarterly reports, setting out the market value of the
Ref: DRN02477112holding and any acquisitions  or disposals in that quarter, he did not receive information
about the underlying positions. He questioned  the governance structures for the SIA fund.
I wrote  a provisional decision in December 2020,  in which  I did not uphold the complaint. I 
explained that I would not be considering  the suitability of the recommendation to invest  and 
remain invested within this portfolio,  which contained the SIA fund. Responsibility for 
assessing Mr As risk profile  and the suitability of this investment against that profile fell to 
Mr As independent adviser, the provider of that advice. ASC were  clear in the investment 
proposal document that they werent providing advice or making a recommendation. The 
proposal was prepared at the request of Mr As adviser based on the requirements he 
provided.
The decision  considered  whether investing  in the SIA fund amounted to a breach of the
agreed investment  mandate and secondly, whether ASC failed to provide the service  it
shouldve done  in terms of managing the portfolio, which  included  the SIA fund.
In December 2014, Mr A received a personalised SIPP  proposal,  to invest  £800,000  into a
target return portfolio.  The objective was decumulation with the aim to grow the asset base
of his pension  fund to produce  5% growth  and draw £30,000 annually. The time horizon for
the period of investment  was 10 years.
Mr A had been profiled as a medium-low  investor, defined  as, 
clients  who are prepared to accept a moderate  amount of risk over your time horizon. You 
want to protect the value  of your investments but you want  them  to grow as well. Under 
normal circumstances, you would not expect your investments to fall and rise sharply.  You 
accept, that in the longer  term, a higher level of risk may result in higher returns .
The proposal gave  an example of the type of split within  the portfolio, showing 15.8%
invested in bonds, 50.5% in equities  and 32.7% in the SIA fund. The proposal  made  clear
reference to the SIA fund, its role within the portfolio  and its use of derivatives, listing listed
examples of the top five key strategies used namely  in the fund: Long  US vs Canadian
Dollar, Long US Dollar  vs Euro, European  equities, Global equities and Long US technology
vs Small  caps, further  it said:
The SIA Fund invests in multiple strategies alongside the other  investments in your fund
This means  that your overall  portfolio  is diversified to a greater extent, in other words,
investments are spread very widely. Each  behaves differently,  which helps minimise the
level of risk in the portfolio. . .
I also considered the information given to investors in the presentation pack used by ASC
at the time, which explained that around  35.6% of the market exposure would be within  the
SIA fund. A page  dedicated to the fund was at the end of the slide pack, which stated:
The Strategic Investment  Allocation  Fund is designed to be used as part of a strategic
approach to individual client wealth objectives and should not be considered as a standalone
investment.
The fund is designed  to generate an absolute return when  viewed  with other  assets in the
client's portfolio.  As a result, if other assets  in the portfolio are performing well, this fund may
not produce a positive  return.
The use of derivatives in the fund may result in increased volatility in the funds price.
Ref: DRN02477113Due to the leveraged nature of derivatives, gains and losses can be greater than associated
with traditional investment  instruments.
The fund will have the ability to hold short derivative  positions. This means  that the fund will
not necessarily follow  market trends i.e. if stock markets rise the fund may not do so at the
same rate, or at all.
The slide pack also contained a generic risk warning that the value of investments could go
down as well as up and past performance was not a guide to future performance.  The same 
explanation about the SIA fund was advanced  in a presentation to Mr A and his adviser  in 
April 2017.
On balance, I was satisfied that Mr A had sufficient information to understand that round a 
third of his assets  would be held in the SIA fund, the type of investments that might be made
within the fund and how it was to be used  to manage volatility. Mr A had the benefit of advice
from his adviser. If he and his adviser  thought that the risk category  identified for him was
wrong or if hed had reservations about the make-up of the portfolio, he didnt  have to go
ahead with the proposal.
ASC said the purpose of the SIA fund was to counterbalance the portfolio to reduce
volatility when more  traditional investments werent performing. I thought it was right to view 
it as part of the overall portfolio and not in isolation. I noted Mr A now said that because of 
the holdings in the SIA fund he was exposed to more  risk than he wanted to take. But as Id
explained at the outset,  I wasnt  considering suitability. ASC were providing  a discretionary 
management service  for Mr As overall investments and I was satisfied that they
managed the investment broadly within the parameters set, maintaining around 35-36% of
the assets in the SIA fund over the period of investment.  The extent of losses  to the overall
portfolio, annualised at -1.6% a year, whilst disappointing, were  in line with the volatility
levels for a medium-low  risk investor.
It was clear from the contemporaneous reviews and correspondence, that the portfolio did 
not perform as expected and the SIA fund did not operate as had been anticipated. I didnt
underestimate Mr As strength of feeling  about  performance. But Id seen that no
guarantees were  made and the risk of the SIA underperforming when other  investments
were performing well was explained, as set out above. Poor  performance of the SIA fund
was set out in the quarterly reports, reviews and both Mr A and his adviser could access
information about performance of the portfolio online.
Mr A also complained that there  was opacity around the SIA fund. I looked at the
information provided. The proposal  documents  set out examples of the types of strategies
that would  be deployed within the fund and Mr A had the option  to contact the portfolio
manager if he required more information.  It was for Mr As adviser to undertake  due
diligence into the portfolio,  which included  this fund. Mr A was right that the quarterly reports
set out the market value of the holding and any acquisitions or disposals in that quarter, but
the managers commentary also gave further  information about the strategies that had been
deployed. These were  discussed further in review presentations.  So, I didnt agree with Mr 
A.
Whilst I appreciated Mr A wished hed had more information at the time, it was relevant that 
the portfolio was managed on discretionary fund management basis, whereby Mr A had
delegated authority to the fund manager  to make  decisions on his behalf about  what
investments to make.
Ref: DRN02477114I hadnt seen anything to show that the strategies deployed by ASC in using the SIA fund, 
were anything other than the legitimate exercise of commercial  judgement  in managing  a 
fund. The fact that the risk of underperformance  of that fund materialised, did not 
automatically mean that ASC did anything wrong.  In the absence of any evidence that ASC 
mismanaged the portfolio   and the performance  of the portfolio and the SIA fund alone  
wasnt evidence of that - I was unable to say that ASC had done  anything wrong in overall 
management of the portfolio.
And even  if I had thought that ASC had managed the portfolio above  the risk level in the
mandate, I couldnt  fairly say now that Mr A would  have done anything  differently. Thats
because Mr A maintained  his investment  in the portfolio  until July 2018,  despite receiving
regular unfavourable reports. His decision to remain invested despite unfavourable reviews
was supported by an email from Mr A to his adviser,  dated  14 September 2017, Given 
extant uncertainties in the market and anticipation  of a (possibly major) correction in short to
medium term, I feel more comfortable  leaving things as they are in the conservative /hedged
Standard Life Wealth fund for time being . .
Both parties  have responded  to the provisional  decision. Mr A remains concerned about the 
poor performance of the SIA fund and questions whether the specific  trades/positions have 
been analysed.  He considers that it was a very odd strategy to hold equity investments in a 
portfolio on the one hand and then short  the index on the other.  Further, he suggests  the 
investment strategy  within the fund was reckless  and concluded  that, they just took gambles 
that did not pay off. Mr A maintains that the risk within  the SIA fund was inappropriate for his 
overall holdings.
ASC have clarified that they were the discretionary fund manager  for the overall  portfolio, 
which included the SIA fund, whereas a different entity, Aberdeen Standard Investment, was 
the fund manager for the SIA fund. 
Ive considered everything in order to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A asks that I assess whether particular positions  within the SIA fund were recklessly  
risky. But as Ive explained, it isnt fair to consider the SIA fund in isolation as it was 
designed to interplay within other assets within the portfolio. Further,  the decisions made 
within that fund were made by its fund managers  not ASC.  
Id like to expand upon my findings  in the provisional decision, namely that I thought  ASCs  
use of the SIA fund within  the overall portfolio was nothing more the legitimate exercise of 
commercial judgement in managing a portfolio. As ASC managed the portfolio on a 
discretionary basis, it was for them to decide  how to invest  the funds and which strategies to 
implement. The SIA fund was brought into the portfolio with the aim of reducing  net equity 
exposure, to act as a counterbalance within the portfolio when more traditional investments 
werent performing.  This resulted in a more  complex investment, with the target return 
portfolio holding a different combination of assets  to a conventional  portfolio. But thats not to 
say it wouldnt be suitable for some  investors.
 
Ref: DRN02477115Historically, the SIA fund had balanced out poor performance in the rest of the portfolio. But 
as was explained in the original pack (set out above), the nature of the hedging strategies 
used in the SIA fund meant that when traditional assets performed well, the SIA fund was 
likely to underperform. So, there was a risk that underperformance in the SIA fund would act 
as a drag on the rest of the portfolio. If the predictions made by ASC acting in capacity as 
the discretionary fund manager didnt work out, Mr A stood  exposed  to all of the equity, 
currency and interest  rate risk in the SIA fund and in the rest of the portfolio. 
Whether these risks were  appropriate for Mr As overall holdings  was a matter  that fell to his 
adviser who gave  the recommendation to invest and remain  invested within this particular 
target return portfolio.  I am not considering  here whether this target return  portfolio was 
suitable for Mr A.
It isnt disputed that ASC kept around a third of the portfolio invested in the SIA fund in line 
with the original proposal and, as I explained  in the provisional decision, losses  sustained  in 
the portfolio overall fell within the volatility levels for a medium-low risk investor.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr A, but having reconsidered everything,  Im not persuaded to 
reach a different outcome  to my provisional  decision. I consider that it would not be fair and 
reasonable to uphold  the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0247711