K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited settled a claim on his motor insurance  policy  as 
fault to avoid further costs if the matter  went to court. Hes also unhappy that it breached  his 
personal data privacy.
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  with a motorbike. Aviva investigated his claim and told him 
that there  was insufficient evidence to hold the bike rider liable. So it recorded the claim as 
fault against Mr S and retained his policy excess.  Mr S complained about this decision and 
Aviva provided him with its final response on this issue. 
A more detailed witness statement was later provided, but Aviva  said this was insufficient to 
change its stance. It didnt  consider Mr Ss further complaint about this as it said it had 
already responded to his complaint regarding liability. Aviva sent a letter to Mr Ss old 
address but it was diverted to his new one. So it apologised for the admin error, but didnt 
think this had breached Mr Ss data privacy. Mr S remained unhappy with both decisions.  
Our investigator didnt  think we could consider Mr Ss complaint about liability as it was 
brought to us too late under the rules we must follow.  But he did think we could look at the 
complaint about  the personal  data breach.  He didnt recommend that the complaint should 
be upheld. He thought Aviva had sent a letter  to the wrong address, but this had been 
redirected. So as the information wasnt disclosed  to another  party,  he thought  no data 
breach had occurred.  
Mr S replied  that he didnt  bring  his complaint about liability  to us earlier  as he thought it 
hadnt been finalised by Aviva due to their ongoing  discussions about the witness statement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that we cant look at every complaint that comes to 
us. This is because of the rules we must follow. One of these  rules  is that a complaint must 
be brought to us within six months of the business  providing its final response to the 
complainant.
I can see that Aviva issued its final response  on Mr Ss complaint about liability  on 21 August 
2018. I can see that this letter met our requirements  by explaining that Mr S must  bring  his 
complaint to us within six months and Aviva would  object to us considering  it if it was brought  
outside this period. This meant Mr S had to bring  his complaint to us by 21 February 2019. 
But Mr S brought  his complaint to us on 17 May 2019. So he brought his complaint to us 
outside the six months when he should  have done.  
Ive looked at Mr Ss concern that he didnt think Aviva had finalised its decision on liability 
when it issued its final response to his complaint. Hes told us that he was in contact with 
Aviva to get a fuller  statement  from the witness to the accident. Mr S thought  the six months 
should start from the date Aviva told him that this additional statement wouldnt change its 
stance. 
Ref: DRN01866032But I dont agree. I dont  think its unusual for businesses to continue  corresponding with 
consumers after a final response is issued. I think thats usually good customer  service.  But I 
cant see that Aviva withdrew its previous final response. The letter Aviva sent to Mr S about 
the additional witness statement isnt a final response to his complaint. It covers  off the new 
points and explains why it thinks it made  the right decision.  
I cant see any evidence of exceptional circumstances that meant  that Mr S couldnt bring his 
complaint to us earlier. If he had done so, I think we could have reviewed Avivas 
investigation and decision about liability after it issued its final response  to Mr Ss complaint. 
And so I cant, under the rules that govern  us, consider this complaint further.
I can see that Mr S told our investigator  that he accepts that his personal data wasnt 
breached by Aviva sending a letter to his old address. Fortunately Mr S had set up 
redirection of his post and this prevented anyone else reading  his letter.  Aviva  apologised for 
this error. I dont require  it to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0186603