K820x#14complaint
Mr Y is being represented by a claims management  company.  Hes complaining  about 
HSBC Bank  Plc because  he says his life and critical illness insurance policy  was mis-sold. 
His representative says he didnt need the policy but was told he had to have it anyway.
background
Mr Y ran his own business  and had a loan with HSBC. In June 2012,  statements show  the 
outstanding balance was around £277,000.  Following discussions with a HSBC adviser in 
2012, he took out a life and critical illness insurance  policy providing cover  of £250,000.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  to show Mr Y was misled  about the need to take the policy  and felt it was a 
suitable recommendation for him.
Mr Y didnt accept the adjudicators assessment and his representative asked for the case to 
be reviewed. It maintains  he didnt need  the policy, saying his wife could have run the 
business in his absence and it would  have continued without him.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Ive taken account of what  Mr Y says he was told. But on their own and without additional 
supporting evidence, I dont think his comments are enough for me to say he was misled  
about the need to take the policy.
This notwithstanding, Mr Y received advice and the adviser had a responsibility to make sure 
any recommendation made was suitable for his circumstances and needs.
Mr Ys business loan was a significant financial commitment and I think its difficult to argue 
he and/or  his family wouldnt have benefitted from a lump  sum sufficient to clear most of the 
debt if he died or became seriously  ill. His representative has referred  to his savings and the 
value of his vehicle, but these were worth only a fraction of the business  debt and would  
have been unlikely to make a meaningful difference in that situation.  
I note the point about Mr Ys wife being able to run the business in his absence,  although its 
very difficult for me to comment on that without a much deeper understanding of the 
business itself and her capabilities.  But either way, it would have been a lot easier  for her to 
keep things going if there was money available to clear most of the outstanding debt.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr Y and isnt what  he was hoping  
for. I also understand  why he may now think  he didnt need the policy. But I dont think  
theres enough evidence to show he was misled about the need to take it and Im satisfied it 
was a reasonable recommendation  based on his circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN07041482my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0704148