K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited wont  pay his accidental 
damage claim under his contents policy for a broken dishwasher door.
background
In March 2019, in the course of using his dishwasher, Mr K noticed  on opening it that the 
door went down really quickly, rather than staying up. When  he tried to close  it again the 
door wouldnt close making the dishwasher unable to be used. He made  a claim to Lloyds. 
He was told by the claims adviser that no insurable  event had taken place, and that normal  
use of the dishwasher  didnt  fall under the accidental damage  cover in his policy.
Lloyds reviewed the claim but ultimately advised Mr K it wouldnt cover it as it didnt come 
under the definition of accidental damage contained in the policy.  It did however offer Mr K 
£25 for calling him outside the times  he had specified he was available, which he rejected.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that, on the face of it, Mr Ks claim might 
come under the accidental damage cover  on the policy. He asked that Lloyds reconsider the 
claim.
Lloyds disagreed and the matter has been  passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks claim is under the accidental damage part of his contents policy.  Accidental  damage 
is defined in the policy as an accident that causes physical  damage, which is caused 
suddenly by an outside force and is not expected  and not deliberate.
I would first of all say that if Mr K was using his dishwasher in the normal  way and it just 
broke, that couldnt  be described as an accident.  This is the basis  on which Lloyds has 
declined the claim. But in this case the claim call records that Mr K said when  he opened 
the door it was a bit funny. He stated  normally the door stays open and doesnt open  any 
further, on this occasion  it went down really  quickly.
I dont know the reason  for the door falling  down rather than staying up, but it seems  likely to 
me that this was the reason why the door broke. And I would say that the way this occurred 
was accidental and caused suddenly by an outside  force that was not expected and not 
deliberate.
Lloyds rejected the claim on the first claim call. It seems to me that the dishwasher  needs to 
be inspected by a suitable engineer in order to establish the reason for the damage.  This 
means that Lloyds must reconsider the claim. I should warn Mr K here that I am asking 
Lloyds to reconsider his claim, not (at this stage)  to pay it. Whether  Lloyds is ultimately liable 
to pay this claim will depend on the result of its inspection.
Finally I think  the £25 offered by Lloyds for calling Mr K outside his specified  availability time 
was reasonable.  If Mr K wants  to accept the offer he should contact Lloyds directly.
Ref: DRN04345782my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to reconsider 
Mr Ks claim for accidental damage  subject to the remaining terms and conditions of his 
policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0434578