K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a packaged bank account called an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account  (URCA) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) trading as 
Halifax.
background
Mrs M took out an URCA in December  2010 which incurred a monthly  fee. Mrs M says Bank 
of Scotland recommended  it to her and pressurised her into having it and she has not been 
able to use some of the benefits.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ms complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland  didnt mis-
sell the URCA. Mrs M disagrees so the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M says she was pressurised  into taking the URCA out, and was left with no choice. 
While Im sure that Bank of Scotland gave her a substantial  explanation of the account as it 
was trying to sell it to her, Mrs M had previously had a fee free account with Bank of 
Scotland for many years. So I think its more likely than not that she knew  that fee free 
accounts were widely  available  with Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial 
institutions. And Bank of Scotland has provided a copy of her application form for the URCA 
which she has signed.
So I think its more likely  than not that she knew the URCA  was optional and she chose to 
take it out.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt  advise  Mrs M to take out the policy.  Mrs M says it did.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of her needs or circumstances  to show 
that Bank  of Scotland did advise Mrs M to take out the URCA. As Ive said above, Im sure 
the substantial  explanation of the accounts  benefits felt to Mrs M as though Bank of 
Scotland was saying  the URCA was a good  idea. But this is not the same as advising her or 
making a personal  recommendation.  And based  on this services knowledge of Bank  of 
Scotlands sales in this period, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland  sold the 
URCA to Mrs M on an information only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed  to provide  Mrs M with sufficient  information  about the 
URCA to make an informed choice.
The URCA contained a range of benefits  including worldwide travel insurance, AA car 
breakdown cover, home  emergency cover, purchase protection,  card protection  and mobile 
phone insurance.  And it offered a fee free overdraft of up to £300. 
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or what information it gave Mrs M about the URCA. 
But from what Mrs M says, Bank of Scotland described the URCA to her at some  length as it 
Ref: DRN05087722was trying to sell the account to her. And I think the URCA would have been of interest to 
Mrs M. I say this because Mrs M registered  her mobile phone  for insurance cover straight 
away and subsequently says she tried to use the travel insurance and the car breakdown  
cover. Her place  of residence would also have benefitted for the home emergency cover.
I can see nothing in her circumstances that would have  stopped  her using the benefits. And, 
as this was an information  only sale, it was for her to decide what she would use, and 
circumstances would  have determined if she needed to make a claim or not.
A key part of Mrs Ms complaint is that she tried to use the travel insurance  but a pre-existing 
medical condition  prevented  her from doing  so. And when she tried to use the car 
breakdown service, it wouldnt come out to her.
Ive considered both these points carefully.  The travel insurance in the URCA didnt  exclude  
pre-existing medical conditions; it only required Mrs M to notify  the insurer of them.  I think 
the medical conditions she has mentioned would have been  covered by the policy  either for 
free or for a small competitive additional premium. So in my view the policy was useful to her 
and there  was nothing to stop her using  it.
She has also described how she tried to use the car breakdown cover.  The cover was 
provided by the AA. The AA has said it has no record of Mrs M trying to use its service. So, 
while I dont know what happened, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M didnt contact 
the AA but if she had done, it would have responded  to her. So I think the car breakdown 
service was useful to Mrs M too. 
So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mrs M, in my view she knew  she had a 
choice whether to take out the URCA or not and she chose to do so. I think  the URCA was 
of interest to her and there was no information  that Mrs M didnt receive  from Bank of 
Scotland that would  likely have put her off taking it out. So I dont think Mrs M lost out as a 
result of anything Bank of Scotland  may have  done wrong when it sold her the URCA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0508772