K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a loan.
background
In 1999 Mrs M took out a loan in a high street store to purchase some goods.  At the same 
time she also took out PPI designed to protect her monthly payments in the event she 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
The PPI cost a little less than £3 a month. Mrs M paid less than £30 in total for PPI.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. They said they thought Mrs M was working  less than 
16 hours a week at the time of sale,  so she wasnt eligible for the policy  and wasnt  therefore 
able to benefit from the cover.
FICL disagreed. It said that in submitting her complaint to them, Mrs M indicated  she was 
employed  she didnt tick the box on the questionnaire to say she was working less than 
16 hours a week.
Mrs Ms representative provided more information about the apparent discrepancy. It said 
that, although Mrs M was employed at the time,  because of her circumstances her employer 
allowed her to reduce  her hours to around  15 hours a week - although Mrs M couldnt be 
exact about the dates but said she went on leave about a month after the sale.
I issued my provisional decision of July 2019. Here I said I was likely to reach  a different 
conclusion to the adjudicator and not uphold  the complaint. In summary  I made  the following 
findings:
because of the conflicting information about  Mrs Ms employment  together  with the 
timing of presentation of the information  I wasnt persuaded that Mrs M was 
working less than 16 hours a week at the time she took out PPI. So on balance I 
thought it likely she was eligible  for the policy at the start date.
I thought FICL made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out PPI  she signed 
separately for the policy where  the cost was set out and it said only sign if you want  
cover.
FICL  didnt recommend PPI so it didnt have  to ensure it was suitable  for Mrs M.
FICL  might not have  provided all of the information about the policy  in a clear and 
timely manner, but given  her circumstances at the time, the fact the policy was 
relatively inexpensive and she wasnt caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover,  I didnt think shed have been put off taking out the policy  had 
FICL done anything  more.
Neither FICL  nor Mrs M has replied to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08883842Im mindful that neither  Mrs M nor her representative on her behalf has responded to my 
provisional decision. But Im satisfied that it was received and that as a result  the deadline 
for a response was made  clear. So I think that if Mrs M or her representative wanted to 
respond they wouldve done  so by now. I think its therefore safe for me to go ahead  and 
issue my final decision.
So on the basis that neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to 
change my mind or depart from my reasoning as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0888384