K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about how UK Insurance  Limited  (trading as Churchill  Insurance)  has 
handled his motor insurance claim.
All references to Churchill include the agents  its appointed to handle  the claim.
background
In June 2017 Mr M told Churchill hed been  involved in a car accident  involving another  
vehicle. The driver  of the other vehicle had tried to overtake him when he was turning right. 
Churchill told Mr M that in the best-case scenario the accident  would be recorded on his 
policy as non-fault.  But in the worst-case scenario it could be recorded as a 50/50 liability  
split with the other driver. Mr M said he would not be happy with a 50/50 split as he didnt 
believe he was at fault. 
The other drivers insurer wouldnt agree to accept 100%  liability and offered to settle the 
claim 50/50. Churchill began legal proceedings against  the other drivers insurer  in an 
attempt to recover 100%  of its costs.
In July 2018, Mr M phoned Churchill and complained  about  the length  of time it was taking to 
resolve his claim. He was unhappy about the increase in his insurance premium due to the 
claim still being open. And hed discovered  this was also affecting the premiums other 
insurers were  willing  to offer him because the claim had been recorded on an insurance 
database. The Churchill representative said she would log his complaint and call him back.
The next day Churchills solicitors told Churchill it was going  to close Mr Ms case file 
because he wouldnt attend court.  Churchill  told Mr M that as he had made the decision not 
to attend court, it would  have to accept  the other drivers insurers  offer of a 50/50 liability 
split. It also said it didnt  believe  it was responsible  for any delays in his claim being 
progressed.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He said Churchill had identified him as at fault for 
the accident and this has resulted in an unfair  and expensive escalation of his insurance 
premiums. He had decided to abandon the claim  in July 2018 with the assurance  from 
Churchill that his protected  no claims discount would protect him from increased premiums 
with any future applications  for motor insurance. Mr M also raised some other concerns 
about Churchills handling of his claim. He said a courtesy  vehicle wasnt provided and there 
was a delay in collecting his vehicle from his place of work after the accident.  
Churchill offered  Mr M £50 for the delay in his vehicle  being recovered and for failing to 
provide a courtesy car. But it said it had to record the outcome as split liability  as Mr M 
wouldnt agree  to attend court. This would also be a contributory factor in the calculation of 
Mr Ms premiums  because insurers rate split liability the same way as a fault outcome is 
rated.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought Churchill had 
investigated Mr Ms claim reasonably and wasnt responsible for any delays.  She said that 
Churchill had to settle the claim on best terms of 50/50 liability  once Mr M had indicated he 
no longer wanted  to attend court. 
Ref: DRN09170072Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt  think it was fair that Churchill had 
increased his premiums when the policy was renewed shortly after the accident.  He also 
didnt think it was fair that he had been  held partially to blame for the accident. He said he 
wasnt unwilling to support the case to court proceedings but objected to the exaggerated  
time line and cost of increased policy payments. He believed Churchill was responsible for 
the delays to concluding his claim.  He wasnt  advised about the impact on his vehicle 
insurance premiums with other insurers going  forward. He thought that the accident  wouldnt 
count against  him because  hed purchased a protected no claims policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 January 2020 where  I explained why I intended  to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Courtesy car and delay  in collecting vehicle
Churchill has acknowledged that there was a delay in picking up Mr Ms car after the 
accident. It says it was picked up two days  after the accident but not within its usual 
timescale of 48 hours. It also says it should  have provided Mr M with a courtesy  car. 
I think the £50 Churchill has offered Mr M is fair compensation for these two issues. I 
understand there was a slight delay in picking up his vehicle, but Mr M was able to leave a 
key at his place of work. Its also noted  that Mr M told Churchill he had a second  car he was 
able to use, so wasnt  inconvenienced  by not having a courtesy car.
Delay in progressing the claim
The relevant  industry  rules say that an insurer should handle  claims promptly  and fairly and 
should provide  reasonable  guidance to help a policyholder  make  a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress. 
Mr M was understandably frustrated  by the length  of time it was taking to resolve  his claim, 
particularly because of the impact this was having on his insurance premiums while his claim 
was still open.
Having reviewed Churchills  records, I think it did attempt to resolve Mr Ms claim in a timely 
manner. I can see it tried to get the other  drivers  insurer  to accept 100% of the liability and 
chased it for a response on several  occasions.  Unfortunately, the other insurer didnt agree 
to this and so the case was passed to solicitors around three months after the accident.  I 
appreciate Mr M felt it was taking  a long time for his case to go to court, but I dont think this 
was due to Churchills  actions. So, I dont intend  to ask Churchill to compensate  him for 
delays in progressing  his claim.
Recording the claim
I also think it was fair for Churchill to record Mr Ms claim as fault while  it was still open. This 
is usual practice within  the industry.  Churchill  says that if the outcome of the claim had been 
non-fault, it would have  refunded the difference in premiums and sent confirmation  for Mr M 
to pass on to his new insurer. Ive no reason to believe it wouldnt have  done  so.
Ref: DRN09170073Abandoning the claim
The reason  I intend  to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part is because  I dont  think  Churchill 
acted in Mr Ms best interests when it decided to settle the claim 50/50 with the other  insurer, 
rather than allowing the case  to proceed  to court. 
Churchill has referred to the policy terms which say: we are entitled to take over and carry 
on the negotiation, defence or settlement  of any claim in your name or in the name of any 
other person covered  by the policy. It says that as Mr M said he wasnt willing  to attend 
court, it was left with no other option but to defend  a split liability outcome.
Ive listened to recordings of Mr Ms telephone conversations with Churchill in July 2018.  And 
I think Mr M would likely have made a different decision about attending court if Churchill  
had clearly explained the implications of refusing to do so.
Mr M referred to his protected  no claims discount on more than one occasion. He seemed to 
be under  the impression  that this would  protect him from higher premiums  once  his claim 
was closed, even  if it was recorded as a fault claim. He was frustrated that his premiums  had 
gone up while the claim was still open,  and it was taking a long time for it to be resolved.
In the conversations  with Mr M, Churchill seemed  to focus on its right to minimise its own 
losses as the insurer.  The representative  told Mr M that if he no longer wished to attend 
court Churchill would not force him to however that pushes us into a position that we cant  
defend the case and look to get a full recovery as much as possible so that it doesnt affect 
the policy you had with us. But she didnt  explain what  the effect on the policys  premiums 
might be. 
Mr M said the reason  he decided to abandon the claim was because  he was sick of being 
persecuted financially for an accident  that wasnt his fault. He said that not going  ahead with 
the court case meant Churchill cannot  continue  to pursue and collect exaggerated direct 
debit payments.
In response the representative said but the policy is still out of pocket  so these costs are on 
your policy under the contract by not taking the case to court that disallows us to be in a 
position that we can look to recover as much money  as possible on it and what we were  we 
were inevitably  looking to be doing  was when that case went  to court was to hold the other 
driver fully responsible,  albeit that would  have been the judges decision if that was agreed 
or not, but there would have been  a potential  that would have brought  your policy back down  
to in line of a non-fault claim.
But she didnt say how that would affect Mr Ms premiums and she also didnt explain that 
having a protected no claims discount doesnt stop premiums from rising  in the event of a 
fault claim.  
Ref: DRN09170074Mr M says hed decided to abandon the claim in July 2018 with assurance from a Churchill 
service agent that his 9+ years protected  no claims discount would protect him going forward  
with any further  application  for motor insurance. While I dont think  he was specifically told 
this in the calls Ive listened  to, I think Churchill could have done more to help him 
understand that this was not the case.  Given that Mr Ms reason for abandoning  the claim 
was to reduce  his premiums, I dont think he would have made this decision if Churchill had 
made it clear  to him that the only way his premiums  could  potentially go back  down was if 
the court case went ahead. As the court case didnt go ahead, Churchill agreed a 50/50  
liability split with the other insurer  and this resulted in the claim being recorded as a fault 
claim.
Theres no way of knowing what the outcome of a court  case would have been if it had gone 
ahead. I know  Mr M feels very strongly that he wasnt  in any way to blame for the accident. 
But I can see Churchill had previously made  Mr M aware of case  law which  meant the court  
might have held Mr M partly responsible for it. If the case had gone to court and the judge 
had decided Mr M was even 1% responsible for the accident, the claim would still have been 
recorded as fault claim  because  Churchill  wouldnt have been  able to recover  all its 
outgoings from the other drivers insurer. Churchill  has a duty to record accurate information 
on the database that can be viewed  by other  insurers. So, Mr Ms premiums  would only have 
gone down if the judge had decided the other  driver was 100%  responsible  for the accident.  
Putting things right
I cant determine if Mr M experienced any financial loss because  of Churchills actions, 
because I dont know what  would  have happened  if the case  had gone to court. So, I dont 
intend to award  any redress  for this. But I still think Mr M has been disadvantaged by 
Churchills failure to clearly explain the potential implications of his decision to abandon the 
claim. Because of this, Mr M has lost out on the opportunity of his claim going to court  and 
the possibility  of a more  favourable outcome. So, I intend to direct Churchill to pay Mr M 
£400 for the frustration and distress this has caused  him.
Mr Ms response
Mr M said he thought it was worth mentioning that the motor accident was witnessed by an 
independent third party. He failed to recognise  why this information wasnt  used to convince 
the other drivers insurance company that their driver had attempted  an unsafe driving 
manoeuvre. 
He also felt Churchill had put its desire  to reclaim  the money  it had spent ahead of his 
interests. 
Churchills response
Churchill disagreed  with what Id said in my provisional decision. It didnt think  it was 
responsible for Mr Ms misunderstandings because it hadnt said that the protected no claim 
discount would prevent  his premiums from rising.
Mr M had been warned  multiple times that the liability  may need to be apportioned. 
Churchill was unable to persuade him the liability would likely be split. 
Ref: DRN09170075Taking the case to court was to defend what  Mr M had said. It seems clear that Mr M made 
the decision not to attend court  without caring  what the impact was. Mr M felt (in error) he 
was protected  from any negative impact,  despite  Churchill requiring him to attend court. 
Churchill made it clear  enough what the implications  of the claim were on Mr Ms policy from 
the very start. It was Mr Ms impatience with the legal process rather  than Churchills  lack of 
customer care that has caused  the disadvantage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Churchill shared  the witness statement with the other drivers insurer, but this 
didnt persuade the other insurer to accept  100%  liability  for the accident. So, Mr Ms 
comments regarding this havent made  a difference to my findings.
I appreciate that Churchill told Mr M on several occasions that a split liability  outcome was 
likely. But from what Churchill has said, the only reason the court case  was abandoned was 
because Mr M had decided he didnt want to go ahead with it. 
Churchill might not have  specifically told Mr M that his protected no claims discount would 
protect him from having  to pay higher premiums. But it also didnt take the opportunity  to 
correct Mr Ms misunderstanding when it was clear  from the phone  conversations  of July 
2018 that this is what  Mr M thought. If the Churchill  representative had more clearly  
explained how Mr M deciding not to attend  court might affect his premiums,  rather than 
concentrating on how it would affect  Churchills ability to recover  its own losses, I think Mr M 
would likely  have made a different decision.  From  the beginning Mr Ms main  concern was 
the effect of the claim on his premiums. I think its unlikely that Mr M decided  not to attend 
court without caring what the impact  was.
 
Churchill had a duty to provide reasonable guidance to help Mr M make his claim and I dont 
think it met this obligation. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont know  what  would have 
happened if the case had gone  to court. The £400  redress isnt to compensate  Mr M for 
financial loss because  theres no way of knowing if he incurred a financial loss. But I do think 
that Mr M has experienced  unnecessary  frustration  and distress because  of Churchills  
failure to provide him with reasonable  guidance.
So, Churchills comments also havent  made a difference to the conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I direct U K Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr M £400 for frustration and distress. This is in addition  to the £50 already offered to 
him for the delay in collecting his vehicle  and not providing a courtesy car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09170076
Ref: DRN0917007