K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled  his claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (S75).
Mr O asked for money back after his wife got ill and services fell below  what  he expected on 
a cruise he paid for using  his Tesco credit card. Tesco declined the claim.
background
In July 2017 Mr O booked a cruise  for him and his wife, with a company  Ill refer to as C. 
He paid around £5,000  towards the cruise on his Tesco  credit  card.
Mr and Mrs O set off on the cruise on 30 December 2017. They  then received a letter 
warning them about illness  on the ship delivered to their cabin.  Mr  O says Mrs O got ill on 
4 January 2018. On 5 January Mrs O was diagnosed with an illness  by the ships medical  
staff. I can see from a letter from the medical  department she was asked to isolate in their 
cabin for two days. It then appeared there had been an outbreak of norovirus on the ship 
which caused passengers to get ill.
In August  2018  Mr O asked Tesco for a refund of £1,254.65. In summary, he said he 
believed C were aware of the outbreak of norovirus before  he boarded  the ship - due to the 
letter given to them and from the fact he heard people were  ill on a separate  flight around the 
same time to the embarkation point. Mr O said they shouldnt have been allowed to board 
and instead should have  been offered a full refund. He was particularly concerned about 
them getting  ill as his wife had a pre-existing  medical condition. And he said his holiday  was 
ruined by his wife getting sick  as they missed events and were concerned about illness for 
the remainder of the trip.
Mr O also said the measures taken  by C to contain the virus were ineffective.  He said the 
general standard of the cruise fell below what he expected and what  was advertised.  And he 
said he had to eat at speciality restaurants  which he had to pay for, rather  than the all-
inclusive ones which he believed  were  less hygienic.  
In October  2018 Tesco wrote to Mr O and explained it was declining  his claim for a refund. It 
said there was no evidence C was aware  of the outbreak of norovirus  before Mr and Mrs O 
boarded the ship.  It said there was no evidence to say C failed in its duty of care. And it said 
quality of service is subjective.
Mr O replied to Tesco  complaining he was unhappy  with its response and asked for a refund 
of the full cost of the holiday - £5,855.
While awaiting  a response from Tesco, Mr O brought  a complaint to this service saying he 
was unhappy  Tesco didnt refund him. He reiterated  to us his reasons for asking for a refund.
In November 2018 Tesco issued its final response  letter. It said it hadnt changed its opinion 
since Mr O asked for a refund. It said it was unable to consider testimonials from other 
passengers that Mr O had given.  And it said there wasnt anything  to show a breach of 
contract had occurred, so it wasnt going  to give Mr O a refund.
Our service began to investigate Mr Os case. Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint.  
She said she hadnt seen enough  to make her think C knew  about the norovirus before 
Ref: DRN08450152boarding. And she said she didnt  think  C had acted without reasonable care and skill. So, 
she thought Tesco hadnt done anything wrong  in its handling of Mr Os claim under  S75.
Mr O disagreed. He said C was fully aware  of the norovirus  outbreak  when they boarded  the 
ship. He said the online reviews hed provided  show there was a problem. He said C caused  
the virus  to spread rapidly through its actions. And he said they received poor service 
because of what happened.
The case  has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. In this case, Ive also thought about what I would consider to be good industry 
practice, which Ive had in mind  when considering the complaint.  
S75 is also relevant  to this complaint. This says,  in certain circumstances, that the borrower 
under a credit agreement  has an equal  right to claim against the credit provider if theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services.
So, I need to consider  if there was a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by C when it 
sold the cruise to Mr O and provided  its service. There is an implied term in the contract 
between C and Mr O that services should be provided with reasonable care and skill. Ill 
consider if this was the case.  If not, I may consider  this to be a breach of contract. 
Ive thought about the debtor  creditor  supplier  (D-C-S) relationship here. Im satisfied 
that payment  went directly  to the supplier.  Looking at the suppliers terms and conditions,  Im 
satisfied that Mr O contracted  with the supplier  both on his own behalf and on behalf of his 
wife. So, Im happy a valid D-C-S  link exists  in this case. Im also satisfied the amount Mr O 
paid is within  the financial limits for S75. So, it follows Im satisfied Mr O had a valid S75 
claim.
Im very sorry to hear Mrs O got ill on what should  have  been a special trip. And, I appreciate 
Mr O spent a significant  amount  of money  on the holiday. But, its worth  noting that getting ill 
on any holiday is a risk. And this is particularly  true on cruise  ships, where a large number of 
people stay together in close quarters. I dont think the fact that Mrs O got ill automatically 
means that C didnt  act with reasonable care and skill. I need  to consider if Cs actions 
caused Mrs O to get ill and, when she did get ill, if it acted appropriately.
I think an important point  in this case is whether C knew there  was an outbreak of norovirus 
before Mr and Mrs O boarded the cruise.
Ive considered what Mr O has said about  people on a different flight  being  ill. Ive thought 
carefully about this and read everything he sent in. But, I havent  seen  enough to make me 
think its most likely  C knew  people were  suffering from norovirus, if indeed they were,  when  
they boarded.
Ref: DRN08450153Ive thought about the letter Mr and Mrs O received  from the medical director  of the ship the 
day after they boarded. Mr O strongly  feels the wording of this letter  makes it clear  C were 
aware of the norovirus  outbreak before they boarded. Ive considered carefully  what  this 
letter says.  In relation  to the outbreak it says 
I would like to advise you that unfortunately over the last 24 hours we have seen an 
increase in the number of reported  cases of gastrointestinal  illness  which are strongly 
suggestive of Norovirus. We have  been  informed that Norovirus  is currently circulating 
widely throughout the UK
Its important to note here that the letter doesnt specifically say C knew it had instances of 
norovirus  only illness which was strongly suggestive of norovirus. And this letter  was 
delivered after Mr and Mrs O boarded. Ive thought very carefully  about  this. But, I dont  think  
this shows that C knew  about the outbreak before Mr and Mrs O got on the ship.
In general terms, I dont think this is letter is enough  to suggest C shouldnt  have let Mr and 
Mrs O board as Mr O has suggested. I havent seen any evidence to suggest  C was aware 
passengers had norovirus before boarding and allowed them on the ship. And, its also worth 
noting that the letter goes  on to list measures people could do to stop the spread of illness  
which is what I would hope to see.
Ive also considered that Mr O said C was already  taking measures to prevent the spread of 
illness when  they boarded   with things like the way food was served. If people were 
reporting to be ill at this point then it seems C were taking precautions which  I would 
consider to be a sensible  approach. But, I still havent seen enough  to make me think C 
knew there was an outbreak of norovirus at this point.
I can see when Mrs O was diagnosed, the letter she received is addressed from a senior 
nurse. The letter explained she had been  assessed  by a member  of the ships  medical staff. 
So, it appears the ship had available medical staff on board and Mrs O had a medical  
assessment when it was required. 
I appreciate how frustrating it must have been  for Mrs O to have to spend part of her holiday 
in her cabin.  And, Im so sorry to hear this meant Mr and Mrs O missed out on some  events 
they were looking  forward  to. But it appears to me that the advice to isolate wouldve been 
the right thing to do based on the risk of spreading the illness.
Ive considered that Mr O said they were told if Mrs O didnt comply with the isolation then 
she may be forced to disembark at the next port. Mr O says this means the isolation wasnt 
voluntary. But, thinking  about this, Im satisfied  that acting with reasonable care and skill 
under these circumstances would mean making sick people  isolate.  Had C allowed sick 
passengers to continue to mingle  with other passengers or staff,  I think this would  likely  have  
increased the spread of illness on the ship. So, I dont think  C did anything  wrong  by making  
Mrs O isolate.
Mrs O was also later given a letter explaining to her that she could now be released  from 
isolation. This included an apology for delays in room service due to the demand on the ship.  
Ive thought about this. But, I dont think delays in room service,  or having to pay for certain 
dishes as explained by Mr O, is enough to say the service wasnt carried  out with reasonable 
care and skill. I also noted in this letter  that it encouraged Mrs O to follow guidance  around  
reducing infection and it explained that measures were still in place  on the ship to prevent 
the spread of the virus.  So it seems C was taking  precautions to stop the illness  spreading.
Ref: DRN08450154Ive considered what Mr O said about having to pay to eat at speciality restaurants  rather  
than the ones that were included in the price of the cruise. He says this was due to the 
speciality ones having a lower risk of infection. But, I havent seen enough to make me think  
its likely  this was the case. I appreciate Mr O felt like quieter restaurants would carry a lower 
risk of getting sick. But the decision  to pay to eat at them was a choice made by Mr O. I dont 
think this meant C didnt act with reasonable care and skill. 
Ive considered Mr Os general comments about  the service he received, including staff not 
acting properly when  handling food and drink  and cold food being served. Ive thought 
carefully about this. But, Mr O hasnt provided  any evidence  to back up his testimony here  
such as photos  or videos.  I havent  seen enough to make me think C didnt  act with 
reasonable care and skill when preparing or serving  the food.
I have also thought about the reviews Mr O sent in from other passengers.  Unfortunately,  
other people  did get ill on the same cruise as Mr and Mrs O. So Im not surprised to see 
negative reviews about the trip. And, although  Mr O believes these reviews prove C was 
aware of norovirus before boarding, I dont agree this is the case.  I dont know anything 
about the people who wrote the reviews. I certainly havent seen any evidence these reviews 
were written  by people qualified to comment  on the outbreak of an illness or the correct 
procedures to follow. Ultimately, I need to consider  what happened in Mr Os individual case.  
So, the reviews  from others  about  the cruise  dont change my opinion.
Ive read the newspaper report Mr O sent us. I appreciate Mr O says this showed a cruise  
was cut short due to an outbreak of norovirus and customers received a refund. But this is 
about a different cruise ship operated by a different company. So, I havent considered  this 
further.
I have thought about general travel and cruise ship regulations and guidance.  Rules and 
guidance for passenger ships in particular are very complex and wide reaching. But, I 
havent been provided with evidence rules were  breached or reference to specific 
regulations that werent followed.  So again, I dont think  its likely a breach of contract took 
place considering this.
Ive considered everything else Mr O has said and sent in, including all of the articles and 
guidelines. Ive also thought about  Cs response to his complaint that he sent in. But, Im 
satisfied this doesnt show it was aware of the outbreak  before Mr O boarded. 
Mr O also said he couldve got more online reviews  from other  people  had we dealt with his 
complaint sooner. Im satisfied Mr O had sufficient  time to send in anything he wanted us to 
consider when he raised his complaint with us and while we have dealt with it. So this 
doesnt change  my opinion.
Finally, Ive also considered whether the trip was misrepresented to Mr O. Hes mentioned 
some advertising, but I havent seen this. Nor has Mr O provided any photos or videos to 
compare any advertising to. So, on balance and with the very little information I have, I dont 
think its likely this was the case.
In summary,  I havent seen enough  to make  me think there was a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by C. So, I dont think Tesco did anything wrong  by declining Mr Os S75 
claim.
Ref: DRN08450155my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0845015