K820x#14complaint
Miss L and Mr C say Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss L and Mr C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Miss L and Mr C disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss L and Mr Cs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss L and Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide has confirmed  that Miss L and Mr C needed to take the PPI to get the mortgage. 
This was because the amount they were borrowing compared to the value of the house  was 
high. Nationwide  was entitled to make  buying the policy a condition of the borrowing and 
Miss L and Mr C didnt have to take out the mortgage and PPI with Nationwide. 
Nationwide shouldve also provided  clear information to Miss L and Mr C to allow  them to 
decide if they wanted to buy the policy. Miss L and Mr C say this didnt happen. And it is 
possible the information Nationwide gave Miss L and Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.
Miss L and Mr Cs mortgage was a significant, long-term, financial commitment. If 
Miss L and Mr C couldnt work for a long period of time they may have found this difficult  to 
pay. As the mortgage was secured on their home,  Miss L and Mr C couldve potentially lost 
their property if they fell into financial difficulties.
The PPI wouldve paid Miss L and Mr Cs mortgage payment if Miss L and Mr C couldnt 
work due to illness, or they lost their jobs. The payment wouldve been in addition  to any 
employer, or unemployment benefits, they might  have received if this happened.  It couldve 
provided a payment for up to 24 months per claim. 
They dont appear to have been affected  by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover 
such as pre-existing medical  conditions. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss L and Mr C 
couldnt afford to make  the monthly payments for the PPI at the time of sale. 
So based  on what I know about their circumstances it looks  like the policy couldve been 
useful to them. So I dont  think  better  information  wouldve stopped  them buying it. And I 
dont think Miss L and Mr Cs lost out due to anything that Nationwide mightve done wrong.  
Ref: DRN07441442my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss L and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0744144