K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how Arrow Global Limited and its agent dealt with a fraudulent  credit  
card account  taken out in his name.
background
Mr H realised a credit  card account had been fraudulently taken  out in his name when  an 
agent for Arrow  contacted  him. Mr H says he told Arrows  agent  in January 2018 what  had 
happened but it took well over a year for the adverse information to be removed from his 
credit file. He says that has caused problems in him applying for a mortgage  which  he didnt 
want to do until this matter was sorted out.
Arrow initially upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part and in January 2019 apologised and said it 
would remove the adverse  information  from Mr Hs credit file within  four to six weeks.  It also 
offered Mr H £100 compensation. The information was not removed and Arrow looked again 
at the complaint and offered a further £50 compensation. It says its tried to sort out matters 
when it became aware of the problem.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought  overall the compensation 
didnt go far enough.  She recommended Arrow  pay a total of £250 as it took well over a year 
for the default  to be removed and thought that Arrow  was responsible  for the actions or lack 
of action of its agent. The investigator  also thought  Arrow had incorrectly linked Mr H to an 
incorrect address and that the delay had affected his mortgage  application  plan.
Mr H accepts the investigators view.
Arrow doesnt accept  that view and says it became aware of the problem in October  2018  
and started the process to sort matters out. It says it did all it could to resolve matters and 
wasnt responsible  for all of the delay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator that Arrow should  pay a total of £250  compensation.
There is a considerable amount of background to this complaint involving the actions of 
Arrows agent before it was aware  of the problem. I do not intend to repeat it in any great 
detail in this decision  as it is well known to the parties.
There is no real dispute  here that Mr H was the victim of fraud and Im satisfied that he did 
everything he could  to explain to both Arrow and its agent what had taken place. I have no 
doubt Mr H has been caused distress and frustration in trying  to remove  the adverse data 
from his credit file. And I also dont  doubt  that the adverse information has meant  he has 
placed his house purchase plans on hold.
Im satisfied that Arrow  and or its agent have taken  well over a year to sort matters  out and 
have made  mistakes by incorrectly linking  Mr H to an address and generally by taking too 
long to sort matters out. So Ive come to the conclusion that the compensation offer of £150 
doesnt go far enough in recognising those mistakes and the impact the delay would  have 
Ref: DRN08864402had on Mr H and his plans. I also think that Mr H has spent a considerable amount of time 
speaking to and writing to both Arrow  and its agent.
For those reasons I agree with the investigator  and think that Arrow  should pay £250  
compensation which is an amount I think fairly  and reasonably reflects  whats happened  
here and how long its taken to sort out. I also think that award fairly reflects  the impact what 
took place had on Mr Hs property plans.
Its not clear if Mr H has received or cashed  Arrows cheque for £150.  So I make it clear  that 
my award is for £250 in total and if Mr H has received or cashed  the cheque  then Arrow 
should pay a further £100 compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Arrow  Global Limited  to pay Mr H 
total compensation of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0886440