K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Santander  UK Plc, (trading as Abbey National), mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs V bought the monthly-premium  policy during a meeting in 2005 at the same  time 
as taking out a further advance on their mortgage.  Although it was a joint policy it would only 
have paid out if Mr V had been off work. And it covered him for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The premiums were about  £46 a month. And following a successful claim 
the MPPI  would have  paid out over £760 a month for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs V 
disagreed the matter  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. And Ive followed this in considering  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this compliant  because:
Mr and Mrs V say that Abbey didnt make  them  aware the policy  was optional. And had it 
done so they wouldnt  have taken  it as they wanted to keep their costs down. But I think 
that they did know the MPPI  was optional  and that they chose  to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  the record of Abbeys discussions with Mr and Mrs V. This shows  that 
they agreed with the statement that they wanted to protect their mortgage  payments  and 
related outgoings  as they wouldnt be able to make them if Mr V wasnt working. Ive also 
seen a copy of a letter to Mr and Mrs V at the time of the sale where  Abbey set out the 
amount of cover Mr and Mrs V wanted  and that they accepted  its offer to take MPPI.
Ive also seen their mortgage  offer. This has a section in it dealing  with insurance. This 
says that Mr and Mrs V didnt have  to take out any insurance with Abbey at all. But later 
on says that they had chosen to take out optional insurance, being MPPI.
Because the sale was so long ago I can understand why Mr and Mrs V no longer 
remember the detail  of what was discussed  at the meeting with Abbey;
Abbey  recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs V. This means that it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable  for their needs. Knowing  what  I do about 
Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances and the terms and conditions  of the policy I find that it was 
suitable because:
oMr V was eligible  for the MPPI:
oMr V wasnt caught by any of the main restrictions and limitations of the policy - such 
as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
 
Ref: DRN08224792oMr V was entitled to sick pay from his employer and he and Mrs V also had some 
savings or other insurance cover. But following a successful claim the policy would 
have paid out in addition,  leaving  their other  means available to help meet  Mr and 
Mrs Vs other expenditures if Mr V hadnt  been working. So I think that the MPPI 
could have been of use to them;
oThe MPPI was competitively priced by reference  to other similar  polices available  in 
the market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent  seen anything to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs V couldnt  afford  it. In any event, as it was paid for monthly,  
had they later felt that it was unaffordable or that they no longer wanted it , they could 
have cancelled the policy at any time;
oAlthough Mrs V was also in employment, the insurance only covered  Mr V. But as he 
was the main earner  I dont find that that made  the policy unsuitable for them;
The mortgage offer set out the monthly premium  payable  But I dont know what else 
Abbey told Mr and Mrs V about the MPPI. Its possible that it didnt tell them everything 
else that it needed to so that they could make an informed decision whether they wanted 
it or not. But as Ive concluded that Mr and Mrs V wanted this type of cover and that it 
was suitable, I dont think that clearer information  would  have changed their minds  and 
stopped them buying it. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious  consequences  
that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs V not been able to make their mortgage  
repayments which were secured on their home.
From the above I conclude that Mr and Mrs V arent  worse off because of anything  that 
Abbey may have  done wrong during the sale. So theres nothing I require it to put to right.
Mr and Mrs V say that the policy wasnt suitable  because it didnt pay out when Mr V was 
made redundant. Ive no details about  the circumstances of the claim he made. The fact that 
it was unsuccessful could  have been for a number of reasons and doesnt of itself mean  that 
the policy was mis-sold.  So this doesnt change my decision.
. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0822479