K820x#14Complaint
Mrs J has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc wont refund cash  withdrawals,  which she 
says she didnt make.
Background
Mrs Js credit card was used for three  ATM  cash withdrawals  on 4 and 5 November 2018. 
Her card was also used  in six unsuccessful attempts to withdraw cash on 5 November 2018.
She said she didnt  make  these transactions. She said she wasnt  in the habit of using her 
credit card regularly. She said she last used her card on 3 November 2918, when she 
withdrew cash from an ATM at a petrol station. This was 24 hours before the first disputed  
cash withdrawal. She said she needed the cash to pay for work on the house. 
She said there was a queue of people behind her, waiting to use the ATM, but she shielded  
her PIN. However, she thought it was possible  that shed been  shoulder surfed and or 
distracted by a third party.
Mrs J confirmed she didnt keep a written record of her PIN. She said she usually keeps  her 
card in a locked tin at home. When she went to the petrol station it was in her purse.
She couldnt remember what prompted  her to call Sainsburys. At first, she thought  it was 
when she received her bank statement  in November but later thought it was a text or email 
message, telling her shed  exceeded the credit limit.
Mrs J reported her card as lost on 18 November  and asked Sainsburys for a refund, saying 
the transactions were unauthorised.
Sainsburys decided  not to refund her. It didnt think the transactions were fraudulent 
because:
they were made with her genuine  card and PIN
she hadnt used  her card frequently, but in late October 2018 she started using  it to 
withdraw cash
on 22 October 2018, she asked for a new PIN and insisted it be sent immediately
some  of the disputed  transactions  were  made  at ATMs, which shed used for genuine 
transactions
she waited two weeks before notifying  Sainsburys that her card was missing
its text message about  the credit limit was sent on 6 November  
her November statement was printed  on 20 November, two days after she reported 
her card as missing
Ref: DRN02828512the fraud was only reported when there were no funds available to spend, two weeks 
after shed lost the card.
As Mrs J didnt  agree with Sainsburys decision,  she asked this service  to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. She felt unable to 
conclude that the transactions were  fraudulent  and thought it was more  likely shed 
authorised them.
Mrs J disagreed with the investigators view. She said Sainsburys should  have obtained  
CCTV footage  from the ATM machines. If it had, then the footage  would have shown it 
wasnt her.
Shes asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mrs J and Sainsburys have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which  form the basis  of my 
decision. However, I can assure Mrs J that Ive read the file, including her comments.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
In short,  Sainsburys  is required to refund the amount  of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mrs J says she didnt make the cash withdrawals and is seeking a refund  of the 
money withdrawn.  So, my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think 
Mrs J authorised the transactions. 
Im satisfied from Sainsburys  technical evidence that Mrs Js genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations say that is not, on its own,  
enough to enable Sainsburys to hold her liable. So, I also need  to think  about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that she consented to the withdrawals being 
made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Sainsburys to conclude  that Mrs J 
authorised the transactions. This is largely  because I dont think they were  made  by 
someone she didnt  know  such as an opportunistic thief.  
Mrs J said she didnt keep a written  record of her PIN and no-one  else knew  it. And she said 
she kept her card in her purse  when  out, and in a locked tin when at home. She said she 
didnt suspect anyone  she knew.
Ref: DRN02828513This means  the only opportunity  for someone to learn her PIN was when she last used her 
card at the petrol  station. Mrs J said it was possible she was shoulder-surfed, and or 
distracted, when she was at the petrol station, but she was also unsure if this happened.  
Im afraid I dont think this is what happened. Mrs J couldnt describe the circumstances at 
the petrol station,  other than to say there  was a queue behind  her. She said she shielded  her 
PIN. So, anyone  trying  to shoulder surf her would have stood very close  to her. Yet, she 
could not describe any such person.  And shes not said there was anything  unusual or 
suspicious around the ATM - certainly  nothing  that distracted her attention.  
And while fraud can take many forms, its unusual for a third party,  who has stolen a card,  to 
wait 24 hours before  using it. Its more typical for the card to be used  quickly  and for as 
much as possible. However,  this wasnt the pattern of activity here.
For these reasons, I dont  consider her card was stolen and used by someone she didnt 
know.
The evidence suggests Mrs J had an urgent  need  for cash.  Sainsburys  said she made an 
rushed request for a new PIN on 22 October 2018. She wanted it sent immediately. Her 
credit card statements show she didnt use her card frequently  and not for cash  withdrawals.  
However, her spending pattern changed  in late October. She made three genuine  cash 
withdrawals between 23 October and 3 November, which were  unusual  for the account. She 
has explained she was having work done to the house. But while  the disputed  transactions  
are out of character for the account,  they are consistent with the change in spending  activity  
and there  were similar in value to the genuine withdrawals.
Some of the transactions were made in the early hours between  3 am and 10 am. But the 
last two genuine transaction were also made at 5.27 and 6.24. So, the early morning timings 
are not necessarily unusual or suspicious.
There was no balance  inquiry to check the available credit before the first disputed cash  
withdrawal. Again, this suggests the person knew how much  was available  to spend. But 
there was a balance  inquiry after the fifth unsuccessful  attempt to withdraw, presumably to 
find out why the transactions were  declined.
I note Sainsburys  said the disputed cash withdrawals were  made  at the same  ATM  as the 
genuine withdrawals.  As far as I can tell, only one ATM was used for the genuine  and 
disputed transactions,  so I dont attach any weight to that evidence.  Besides, it wouldnt be 
unusual for a third party to use the card in the same  vicinity.
But I think the most compelling evidence that Mrs J knew  about  the disputed  cash 
withdrawals, is the delay in reporting the lost card,  which,  unfortunately, she couldnt 
properly explain.  At first, she said she realised her card was missing when she received her 
credit card statement for November and saw the disputed transactions. However,  
Sainsburys said the statement was printed on 20 November, two days  after shed reported  
her card as missing.  She then said she might have  reported the fraud after receiving the text 
message about  her credit limit. But the text was sent on 6 November. She also thought  it 
was after shed checked her online account  but according to Sainsburys records,  there were 
no log ins between 31 October and 20 November. 
Ref: DRN02828514Its not my role to identify who did make the disputed transactions but, as I think  its unlikely 
they were made by a stranger, then logically,  this only leaves Mrs J or someone she knew.  
Its possible someone she knew made the cash withdrawals, but I cant  safely conclude this 
was fraud  because the person knew the PIN. And they could only have  got that from Mrs J. I 
also think the delay  in reporting  the card was unusual and it was more  than a coincidence 
that she reported it when the available funds had run out.
Ive considered Mrs Js request for CCTV footage. CCTV  footage can be helpful. However, 
while Mrs J might not appear in the footage, it doesnt rule out the possibility that she 
allowed someone else to use her card.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Mrs J authorised the 
transactions. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Sainsburys  to refuse a refund of the 
disputed cash withdrawals.
Im sorry  to send such disappointing news but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282851