K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) has unfairly reported details 
about his overdraft which has affected his credit score.
background
Mr I has a current account,  with an overdraft, with Halifax. In early  2019 Mr I was purchasing  
a property. In January  2019 Mr Is current account  was overdrawn, but within  its planned 
overdraft limit. Halifax says it reported this to the relevant  credit  reference agencies as part 
of a monthly update. 
As a result, Mr I noticed his credit  score had reduced with one particular credit  reference 
agency (Company  A). He was unhappy  and said this reduction  led to a property purchase 
falling through.  Mr I complained to Halifax and said hed lost £700 in fees towards  the 
property purchase.
Halifax said it had reported accurate  information  about the use of Mr Is current account. And 
it said Mr Is credit score was decided by Company A - based on the information it was 
given. So it said it hadnt done anything wrong  by reporting accurate data.
Mr I brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked  into his 
concern. He said Halifax wasnt responsible for deciding Mr Is credit score, only providing 
accurate information  to the relevant agencies. And from what  hed seen there were no 
negative markers or reports  made by Halifax about Mr I, and the information  matched with 
Mr Is statements.
Overall the investigator  said he felt Halifax hadnt  acted unfairly by reporting  information 
about Mr I to the credit reference agency, nor did he think  it had made  a mistake and 
provided inaccurate data.  So he didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr I disagreed, so the complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Amongst other things, Credit reference agencies keep information  about individuals.  They 
collate information  from a variety of sources, including banks and credit card companies, to 
produce credit files. These are then used  by lenders to help decide  whether they want to 
provide credit to an individual.
Businesses such as Halifax should provide accurate information to the credit  reference 
agencies to allow them to produce these credit  files.
In this case I have to consider whether Halifax has provided accurate information to 
Company A. And having looked at the evidence it seems it has. Halifax  has said it has 
reported accurate  data and provided  no negative markers  or reports  as Mr I was within his 
planned overdraft.  Ive checked  Mr Is statements and this appears to be the case. 
Ref: DRN08533572Mr I hasnt highlighted or raised  concerns about  any inaccuracies himself,  and it appears 
hes unhappy more  generally with his credit score. I understand  he thinks the reduction of his 
credit score is unfair,  but as Ive said, how this score is determined isnt the responsibility of 
Halifax. So Im satisfied  Halifax  has done what it needs to by reporting accurate information, 
and Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0853357