K821x#15complaint
Mr V and Ms L are unhappy that esure  Insurance Limited declined part of their drainage 
system claim under their home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr V and Ms L discovered a problem with their drainage system. They  contacted a drainage 
company, U, to inspect  the system. U found  the walls of the septic tank had split, which had 
allowed ground water to enter the tank. As a result the system couldnt disperse the waste  
as it should, becoming  blocked and overflowing.  Mr V and Ms L made a claim to esure.
esure agreed to cover the damage  to the septic tank but not the rest of the drainage system. 
They said they had introduced a term to the policy to exclude loss or damage  to soakaways 
or field drains the year before. esure  said this meant  the problem  with the drainage  system 
beyond the septic  tank wasnt covered. Mr V and Ms L didnt accept this and brought a 
complaint to this service.
U said esure hadnt clearly pointed  out the exclusion  when it was added to the policy.  U also 
said they didnt  think the term applied to this claim. In Us opinion  Mr V and Ms Ls drainage 
system included a drainage field  but not a soakaway or a field drain.  They said each of 
these three  things were  all different. U also said that replacing the septic tank alone wouldnt 
resolve the problem  unless  the drainage field was replaced too. And, if both parts of the 
system were to be replaced,  new updated regulations meant  a new type of system would 
have to be installed.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She noted  esure had agreed the damage to the septic  
tank was covered. So she referred to this services approach and said esure was required to 
perform a lasting and effective repair. Based on what U had said,  she thought the drainage 
field would  have to be replaced in order to restore the septic  tank to a fully functioning state. 
Because of this she said it would be fair for esure to pay to replace the drainage  field too. 
Our investigator said it would be reasonable for esure to pay to replace  the system like-for-
like but not to pay for any other costs  as a result of complying  with the updated  regulations. 
This was because she understood the regulations  to mean that Mr V and Ms L had been  
required to install a new system since 2015.
Mr V and Ms L accepted our investigators view. esure didnt. It maintained the policy 
specifically excluded soakaways. So, the complaint was passed  on to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  U, on behalf  of Mr V and Ms L, made  two 
main points. Firstly,  the new policy term wasnt sufficiently highlighted to Mr V and Ms L so it 
would be unfair  for esure to consider it when looking at the claim.  And secondly  the 
exclusion shouldnt apply  in this situation.  Ill consider  each in turn.
Ref: DRN01216882Was the policy term introduced fairly?
When Mr V and Ms Ls policy renewed a few years  ago esure sent out policy documents.  
Included within this was a renewal update which set out changes in the policy cover that would 
come into effect from the renewal. That included reference to a new policy  term which said:
we will not pay for loss or damage to soakaways and/or field drains
The overall documents ran to ten pages   the first two a covering letter, the next four the 
renewal schedule and the last four the renewal update. This new policy  term is on the first 
page of the renewal update and page seven of the overall pack.
The first page of the pack highlights the renewal update, explains what  it is, and asks 
Mr V and Ms L to read it. Im satisfied esure  drew  Mr V and Ms Ls attention  to the 
importance of reading  the renewal update.
The renewal  update said it included significant wording changes to your policy cover.  And 
the new exclusion was on the first page of the renewal update. So, I think  esure  made it 
clear that it was important  to read the information  contained within the renewal update. 
Overall, in relation  to Mr V and Ms Ls case, Im satisfied that esure sufficiently highlighted 
the new policy exclusion.
Does the policy term apply?
esure has agreed to cover  the cost of replacing the damaged septic tank.  As that point isnt 
in dispute, I dont need to consider  it any further  or make a finding  on it. The main point of 
dispute is whether  esure should  cover  the cost of replacing the rest of the drainage system.
U says esure should do so because the policy term doesnt apply to Mr V and Ms Ls claim. 
It says the term refers to soakaways and field drains only. In Us opinion  Mr V and Ms Ls 
drainage system contains a drainage field  and they say thats a different thing altogether.
I accept what U has said on this point.  A field drain  is something different. Its usually a drain 
running across open land intended to assist  with draining water running off or into the land. 
What Mr V and Ms L have is something  intended to disperse household waste,  via a septic  tank.
U said soakaways and drainage fields are different things. Us own report explains that the 
septic tank discharges to an unknown soakaway system and uses  the word soakaway  to label 
this on a diagram.  At no point does it label any part of the existing system as a drainage field.
U suggests a soakaway  is a pit filled with rubble designed to drain  waste. And a drainage 
field is a system of pipes  in trenches  to discharge  waste. U accepts the word soakaway is 
often used as a catch all term. I can see why, as both soakaways and drainage fields, 
according to U, drain waste. The difference appears  to be whether the method of drainage is 
by pipework or not. I havent seen any reference to pipework in relation to Mr V and Ms Ls 
drainage. So Im not certain Mr V and Ms Ls system could be called a drainage field. And I 
note U themselves didnt  use that phrase in their own report. Because  of this, Im satisfied 
its fair for esure to refer to what Mr V and Ms L have as a soakaway.
The policy term mentioned above is clear that esure wont pay for loss or damage  to 
soakaways. So, I think esure understandably said the exclusion applies to this claim. But I 
must also consider  whether following the policy terms strictly leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome. In this case I dont think it does.
Ref: DRN01216883Is it fair to rely on the exclusion?
U has told us the septic tank walls have split, allowing ground water to enter  the tank. This 
has disrupted the usual performance of the tank,  resulting in solid waste  exiting the tank into 
the soakaway when ordinarily  it wouldnt. Thats caused the soakaway  to become blocked, 
as its only intended  to drain water.  That means  the soakaway cant  properly do its job and 
drain the water. With nowhere else to go, the water returns  to the tank and overflows. 
Because of this U says that replacing  the damaged  septic tank with a new one wouldnt 
return the drainage  system to a serviceable condition. I accept this point.
Where an insurer has to deal with a claim for damage, this service takes the view its fair for 
the insurer to perform an effective and lasting repair. That means the repair  should resolve 
the problem  and do so for a reasonable period of time. In this case,  Im not satisfied that 
replacing the septic tank alone would amount to an effective and lasting repair.  The 
soakaway would remain blocked and unable to drain  water. This in turn would disrupt the 
usual performance  of the septic  tank.
esure hasnt  disputed what U has said or suggested  that replacing the septic tank alone  
could resolve the problem. Instead  it maintains that the policy term means  it isnt liable to 
repair or replace  the soakaway. In esures view the soakaway simply isnt covered  
regardless of any other  factors. They say they dont  cover soakaways because  theyre  
designed to fail.
In this case, the damage has been accepted  to the septic tank as accidental damage. This 
led to the soakaway becoming blocked.  So, for function to return to normal I think  the 
soakaway needs to be replaced  along with the septic  tank.  I think  it would be fair and 
reasonable for esure  to pay for the soakaway to be replaced.
How should esure  put things  right?
Our investigator suggested esure  pay Mr V and Ms L the cost of replacing the soakaway 
like-for-like. I think thats fair. esure dont have  to pay towards upgrading the system. Mr V 
and Ms L accepted this. I think this is a reasonable way to resolve the complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Insurance Limited to:
settle the claim  by paying for the cost of the soakaway to be replaced like-for like with 
the existing one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0121688