K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc dealt  with his personal 
loan arrears and that it closed his business  account.
background
Mr S was in arrears on his loan and RBS sent a default notice on 14 December 2018. It also 
sent him a letter giving him 60 days notice of the closure of his business  current  account. 
Mr S discussed his loan arrears with RBS in January 2019 and sent in an income  and 
expenditure form. He says he did not receive a voicemail from RBS asking him to call back 
about this. RBS transferred his loan account  to recoveries and the business  account was 
closed. When Mr S complained RBS accepted  it should have done more.  It returned his 
personal loan to branch management  and arranged to remove  the adverse credit  information 
that had been recorded. RBS wrote off the then arrears of £171.61,  paid Mr S £200 for the 
trouble and upset  caused and £10.80 towards  his call costs. It said it could not re-open  the 
business account. It asked Mr S to submit details of any other  costs  that he might have 
incurred.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-RBS had given  the notice of the account closure required under the terms and 
conditions.
-Mr S said he had not received the letter about this in December 2018. He had moved 
but RBS did not have  a record of him changing  his address until 9 January 2019.
-RBS has also said to him in a call of 17 January  2019 that it he didnt deal with the 
arrears his account would be closed and moved to recoveries.
-Shed  listened  to the later voicemail  RBS left for Mr S in January 2019. She thought  
that it could have attempted to contact  him again  before the account  transferred to 
recoveries. But the income and expenditure did not show any free amount so she did 
not think a payment  plan would have been  possible.
-She thought  that RBS compensation was reasonable. But she asked Mr S if he had 
any evidence of any additional specific further costs or financial loss to consider. He 
did not provide  anything.
-A new complaint  about the incorrect information  Mr S said he was given when he 
wanted to open  another  business  account would be set up.
Mr S did not agree.  Given that RBS said it should  have done  more he could  not understand 
why it seemed hed been found in the wrong.  He said that £200  was an insult compared to 
the impact of the account closure which he said had left him in financial ruins.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the closure of the business account
Im afraid that RBS gave Mr S the 60 days notice required to close his business  account in 
line with its terms and conditions. It did not have to give a reason but in its letter  of 14 
December 2018  said that this was due to the position on his personal  account. I consider 
that this was correctly  sent to the address  RBS had on record  for Mr S. There is no evidence 
that he changed this recorded  address  until 9 January 2019.
Ref: DRN05927982RBS did not have to reverse  that decision even if Mr S had dealt with the arrears on his loan. 
But its final response to him accepts  that it would have done so if he had. 
the personal loan
Mr S was in arrears on this loan.  Ive listened  to the recordings of the calls he had with RBS 
about this. On 4 January 2019  he requested  a week to clear the arrears. He did not do so 
and in a call on 17 January 2019 discussed  the arrears  and agreed  that he would send in an 
income and expenditure form with his personal  commitments. He was made aware  of the 
importance of dealing with the arrears. He returned this form the next day. And RBS left a 
message for him on 22 January 2019 saying  it wanted to discuss this with him urgently. Ive 
seen a case note from that day saying that if he called back that as the income and 
expenditure showed no affordability RBS would be unable to enter  into an agreement. The 
account was transferred  to recoveries at the time that the notice to close  the business 
account expired.
I would expect RBS to act positively and sympathetically in dealing  with his personal  
financial difficulties. At that time his arrears  were said to be £171.06  just over three 
monthly payments.  RBS accepts that it did not do so as it should  have  made more of an 
attempt to contact  Mr S and discuss his options first.
putting things  right
 
RBS has compensated  Mr S for the issues with his personal loan and the then arrears  were 
cleared. The adverse  credit information  has been removed. 
RBS has made it clear to me that the business account cannot  simply be reopened once it 
has been closed.  And Mr S would need  to reapply.  It says its recognised that in the 
compensation for inconvenience of £200 and the contribution to call costs of £10.80.  RBS 
and our investigator have  both asked Mr S to demonstrate any further impact through 
financial loss or costs so that these can be considered.
Mr S has not provided any further  evidence. Ive read what  hes said about the impact and 
that he needed proof of business  activity  to support an ongoing  visa application. But he has 
not substantiated any specific financial loss or costs. I know he will be disappointed  when  I 
say I think that the amount already paid to him is appropriate. As a result  I wont  be asking 
RBS to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc need do no more than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0592798