K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
when a further advance was taken  in 2009.  Ms H says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) 
mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ms H has said she didnt  ask for PPI and that it wasnt  clear  the policy was optional.  YBS 
has said its likely the sale took place in a meeting and has given us a copy  of the Statement 
of Fact. This included  questions about Ms Hs personal details, level of cover and monthly 
benefit required. So I think there  wouldve been  a discussion about PPI. Ms H has chosen to 
take accident and sickness only  tailoring  the type of cover she wanted as there were  other 
options available.  YBS has also provided  a copy of a letter titled meeting your demand  and 
needs sent to Ms H after the meeting confirming a discussion  took place and that it was 
recommended Ms H take PPI out. However, it doesnt say Ms H had to take it out. So having 
taken everything into consideration, I think YBS made it clear  to Ms H that she had a choice 
in taking PPI and I think she chose to take it.
YBS recommended  the PPI to Ms H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Ms H has said she didnt  need PPI as she would have  received good sick pay from her 
employer at the time if she was too ill to work.  The PPI policy couldve covered Ms Hs 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim if she became  too ill to work.  It wouldve paid out 
in addition to any sick pay she had. And as there  couldve been  serious  consequences  of not 
keeping up repayments  on a debt secured against  her home,  if Ms H couldnt work  then the 
PPI meant her monthly  mortgage  payments wouldve  been  met. So I think  the PPI policy 
couldve been helpful to her.
Whilst I appreciate that Ms Hs family  would  have wanted to help, their support cant  be 
relied upon as their circumstances  can also change, meaning they are unable to provide 
such financial assistance.
Its possible the information YBS gave Ms H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H. But YBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because:  
Ref: DRN05059482YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms H about that. Because YBS didnt tell Ms H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms H has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Ms H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0505948