K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank  Plc offered him a loan at a higher interest rate than 
the advertised rate and that it didnt honour the agreed two month  repayment  holiday.
background 
In July 2018 Mr M applied  for a loan from Sainsburys  bank at the advertised  rate of 2.8%. 
The bank refused the application, but Mr M appealed. Mr M discussed his application with an 
underwriter and believed  he did so on the understanding  that if the loan was offered it would 
be at a rate of 2.8%.  He also asked the underwriter  for an initial  two month repayment 
holiday. The underwriter agreed to that request.
The bank approved the loan and sent the documentation to Mr M to sign. The rate offered 
was 8.1%  and no mention was made of the payment  holiday. Mr M signed and returned the 
loan agreement.
About a month  later Mr M complained to Sainsburys bank about the interest  rate and that it 
hadnt honoured the promised payment holiday.
The bank said its literature made clear that the rate it decided to offer loan applicants  would  
depend on their individual circumstances and that it wouldnt  necessarily  be the advertised 
headline rate. It said Mr M had signed  the loan agreement, which  clearly  stated  the interest 
rate as 8.1%. Mr M had then had 14 days to cancel the agreement,  but he hadnt done so.
With respect to the repayment holiday the bank  denied that this had been offered by the 
underwriter. But when Mr M requested a copy of the phone call it became clear  that the 
matter had been discussed and agreed. Sainsburys bank apologised for its initial response 
to Mr M on this point and offered him £150 compensation, which  he declined.
Having listened  to Mr Ms discussion with the underwriter our adjudicator confirmed that the 
loan interest rate hadnt been  mentioned.  She also noted that the loan agreement  explicitly 
stated the rate to be 8.1% and Mr M had signed that agreement.
But her view was that the bank  should pay Mr M £250 for its error  in not implementing the 
promised repayment  holiday and for the upset it had caused him in initially denying  that this 
had ever been discussed. 
Mr M disagreed saying that he now wanted the repayment break and a settlement figure 
minus interest to enable  him to look for a better deal elsewhere. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general lenders offering  loans  advertise them  with a headline interest rate but make clear 
that this may vary depending on individual  circumstances.  And Sainsburys bank is no 
different in this regard.
Ref: DRN05020342And so when Mr M applied for a loan at the advertised rate of 2.8% there was nothing  to 
suggest that this was the rate he would be offered. Indeed there  was no guarantee that he 
would be offered a loan at all, as he discovered  when his application was initially  refused. 
Sainsburys bank says it considers a range of factors in deciding  whether to offer a loan and 
if so, at what rate and over what time period.  Having  rejected Mr Ms application, the bank 
nevertheless offered  him the opportunity to discuss the matter with an underwriter to see if 
anything could be done.
I accept that Mr M did this on the implicit assumption  that he would be discussing a loan at 
an interest rate of 2.8%. But neither the bank nor the underwriter had said anything  to 
suggest that was the rate being discussed. And when the loan was offered it was at a rate of 
8.1%.
I have looked  at the loan agreement and I can see that this rate is explicitly and clearly 
mentioned more than once. And the letter accompanying the agreement  advises applicants 
to read the document before signing.  It also states that if applicants change their minds 
within 14 days of signing they can cancel the loan.
Mr M signed the agreement and didnt cancel within 14 days.  He says he signed on the 
understanding that the loan had been offered at the advertised rate, and so was happy to do 
so without worrying about the detail  the agreement contained. But Im afraid that I cannot  
reasonably hold Sainsburys bank responsible for Mr Ms misunderstanding about the 
interest rate. 
But I do hold it responsible for not offering the loan with the agreed  two month repayment 
holiday. And this error was then exacerbated by the banks denial that it had ever reached 
such an agreement.  This caused Mr M significant distress and it is right that the bank should 
pay him compensation for this.
Over the course of his complaint Mr M has changed his mind about what  he is looking for to 
put matters right. Initially he said he didnt now want the repayment  holiday. He needed it at 
the start of the loan because he was making payments towards another  loan at that time. He 
asked for compensation equivalent to two monthly  repayments. But recently Mr M has said 
he would  like the repayment holiday and a settlement figure, without interest,  for his loan. 
This would enable him to look elsewhere for a better deal.
But having  considered the detail of what happened here my conclusion is that I cannot 
reasonably require Sainsburys bank to offer Mr M the solution he now seeks. I dont  think 
the bank misled him into believing he would be offered a loan at 2.8%.  And the loan offer 
clearly set out the interest rate. Mr M signed accepted the loan on that basis  and didnt 
cancel it within the cancellation period. The bank should have made  the loan offer with a 
repayment holiday and I find it disappointing that it subsequently denied that it had said it 
would do so. 
But taking all of this into account I consider it fair and reasonable that Sainsburys bank pay 
Mr M £250, which it has agreed it will do.
my final decision
My decision  is that Sainsburys Bank  Plc must pay Mr M £250 compensation for the trouble 
and upset it has caused him.
Ref: DRN05020343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0502034