K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision which was to uphold  the complaint on 8 July 2020. I have 
reproduced the background and my provisional  findings from that provisional  decision here.
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. He 
explained Mr B had said he was cold called and it was suggested  that he transfer  to a SIPP 
and invest in debentures of a single company. Mr B agreed to the transfer.  He completed an 
application for the SIPP and £17,114 was transferred  into it in December 2016. £16,304 was 
then invested  in the debenture.
The investigator noted that Mr B sold the debentures on 22 February 2019. £615 was
charged as an early redemption charge, with £18,504 being the remaining proceeds. The
remaining cash balance was sent to his SIPP.
Mr B, through his representative,  complained to Alexander David  in November 2018.  I 
understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred  the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. He asked Alexander David for its files 
and to provide  any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, he 
received no response. The investigator therefore assessed the complaint on the evidence  
that had been presented.
The investigator said that the SIPP provider  had confirmed that St Pauls Marketing  had 
introduced Mr B to open the SIPP. He said no fact find or suitability report  had been 
presented as evidence. But he noted  that in his complaint form Mr B had said that he was 
told by St Pauls Marketing  that his existing  pension was not performing and that the best 
thing he could do would be to transfer  and invest in the debentures where he could expect to 
receive an 8.5% return. The investigator  said this suggested a comparison  took place 
between the proposed investment and the existing one, and it was recommended  that Mr B 
transfer. He said the recommendation  was personalised  to Mr Bs circumstances and the 
investigator was satisfied this met the criteria of a personal recommendation.
The investigator didnt  think it was a suitable recommendation. Mr B had said he was a low 
risk client  with little capacity for loss. He said looking at Mr Bs circumstances some risk 
might have been appropriate.  However he thought the debentures were completely 
unsuitable. He said it shifted Mr Bs assets into a single company. He said most pension 
funds were diversified across dozens  of companies  in different industries and sectors,  but 
the success of the debentures  was dependant on just one.
The investigator said that even if it had been a successful company with a strong track 
record it wouldnt have been  the correct advice.  He said it appeared the company that issued 
the debentures was only a few years  old at the time of advice with little in the way of a track 
record. It was extremely  high risk and unsuitable for the vast majority of investors.
Ref: DRN04241392The investigator said that even if it was argued  St Pauls Marketing didnt make a personal 
recommendation as it was arranging the transaction and making a direct  offer it was required 
to carry out an appropriateness test in accordance  with the COBS  rules; the debentures 
were a non-readily realisable security. Hed seen no evidence of an appropriateness test 
having been carried out. He thought  even  in these circumstances the firms  actions were 
unfair. And he didnt  think Mr B would have been deemed appropriate to invest in the 
debentures, 
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt 
provide a response. The investigator  subsequently wrote to both parties on 15 March  2020 
explaining that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to make a 
final decision.  No  further evidence or arguments were provided.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Alexander David didnt  respond to Mr Bs original complaint. Neither did it co-operate  with 
our investigation; it didnt provide its business  files or respond to the investigators 
assessment of the complaint. Theres  only very limited evidence available  to establish what  
happened at the time of the investment.  
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available including  Mr Bs recollections of 
events. Alexander David/St Pauls hasnt disputed what Mr Bs said in his complaint to it, or 
what the investigator said in his assessment.  
Im also mindful that this is one of a number  of complaints we have received and which I 
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited;  all of a similar nature, involving seemingly 
similar circumstances and the same  investments. 
Clearly I need to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided  in each 
particular case.  But Ive noted that what Mr B has said about St Pauls role is consistent  with 
what other complainants have described. So I think what he has said is plausible. And taking 
everything into account, I have found it credible. 
As noted by the investigator, Mr B said that he was told by St Pauls Marketing that his 
existing pension was not performing and that the best thing he could  do would be to 
transfer and invest  in the debentures where he could expect to receive  an 8.5% return. The 
investigator said this suggested a comparison took place between the proposed investment 
and the existing one, and it was recommended  that Mr B transfer. 
In my experience its unusual for someone  of Mr Bs background and experience  to invest in 
this type of investment without prompting.  I think that was unlikely to have  happened  without 
the involvement of St Pauls. Im satisfied that it initiated the investment in the debenture. It 
was aware of where the investment was going  to be made through the DFM and facilitated it. 
Mr B has said St Pauls told him to transfer  and invest in the debentures; the investigator said 
he thought it likely St Pauls had recommended the investment  and it wasnt suitable for him 
and the firm hasnt  disputed this. In all the circumstances, I think  its more likely than not that 
advice was given.
The investigator also said he thought St Pauls  was involved in arranging the transaction and
Ref: DRN04241393that it was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness in accordance  COBS  10. He
didnt think the debentures were appropriate for Mr B. 
Again, St Pauls hasnt  disputed this. I agree with the investigator that its more likely than not
that St Pauls  arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debenture,  but Im
satisfied, on the limited evidence that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in
arranging the investment  (and recommending it). The debenture was high risk and 
speculative and clearly  wasnt appropriate for Mr B given his background, knowledge and 
circumstances
Mr B has said he was a low risk client and hadnt  got capacity for loss. I think it was clear 
that the debenture wasnt suitable or appropriate for Mr B and this should  have been clear to 
St Pauls. Im satisfied that if St Pauls hadnt  advised  Mr B to transfer and invest  in the 
debenture or if it had told him it wasnt appropriate for him he wouldnt have transferred and 
invested in it.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls  failures  caused Mr B to transfer  and invest in a 
product that he would otherwise not have invested into. It follows  that Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mr B has claimed.
I went onto to set out how I was minded  to order Alexander David to calculate whether Mr B 
had suffered a loss and how to pay compensation to Mr B.
I asked Alexander David and Mr B to let me have any further evidence or arguments that 
they wanted me to consider before I made  a final decision. 
Mr B said he was happy with the provisional decision. Alexander  David  didnt provide any 
further material evidence  or arguments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  that the complaint should be 
upheld. 
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision as set out above,  my final 
decision is that I uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr B on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  Mr B 
would have invested differently. Its not possible  to say precisely what  he would  have done,  
but I am satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Ref: DRN04241394what should Alexander  David  do?
To compensate Mr B fairly Alexander David should:
Compare the performance of Mr Bs investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, Alexander David  Securities  Ltd should pay into Mr Bs pension  plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Alexander David 
Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension plan 
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual  or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
I think M B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  Alexander David should:
Pay Mr B £250 for the inconvenience the disruption to his retirement  planning 
has caused. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much  it has taken off. It should  also give Mr B a 
tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)     to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
Ref: DRN04241395SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Mr Bs
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value 
This means  the actual value of the SIPP at the end date. 
Fair value 
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Alexander 
David Securities Ltd should use the monthly  average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates  should  be applied  to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy  suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Ref: DRN04241396I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0424139