K821x#15complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eight payday  loans Mr Lender provided  to Mr C between January 
2014 and March 2015. Mr Cs lending history  is as follows:
Loan 1 taken in January 2014 for £250.  This loan was rolled over on one occasion.
Loan 2 taken in April 2014  for £500.
Loan 3 taken in May 2014  for £500. This loan was rolled over on one occasion.
Loan 4 taken in August 2014 for £600.
Loan 5 taken in September 2014  for £300. This loan was rolled over on one 
occasion.
Loan 6 taken in December 2014 for £300.
Loan 7 taken in January 2015 for £350.
Loan 8 taken in March  2015  for £320. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint and thought  the loans from loan two onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN01170312There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender  was required to establish  whether Mr C 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments  were affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought  
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained the total payments required  for loans two and three 
represented a significant proportion of Mr Cs declared income. Given the portion of Mr Cs 
income going towards these loans, I think Mr Lender had to be alert to the possibility Mr C 
might not have been able to meet his other commitments without having  to borrow again.  
This is especially as Mr C was borrowing almost double the amount of his previous loan, 
which he had to rollover, the day after he eventually repaid it. Bearing all of this in mind, I 
think Mr Lender  ought to have been aware Mr C was unlikely to have been able to 
sustainably repay  loans two and three. So Im upholding the complaint about these loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
four. I say this because:
Ive seen what Mr Lender  has said about there being a break of almost  two months 
between loan three being repaid  and loan four being taken. But this ignores the fact 
that Mr C rolled  over loan three  and he was given  a larger amount for loan four. 
Equally the break  was for substantially less time than the period Mr C owed           
Mr Lender money  for loans one, two and three. Taking all of this into account, I dont 
think that the period of time between loan three being repaid and loan four being  
taken is enough  for me to be able to fairly  say that there  was a break in lending.  
From  loan four onwards Mr C was provided  with a new loan within  days  of settling a 
previous one. So Mr Lender ought  to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr C 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving 
in his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan  eight 
was taken out 14 months after Mr Cs first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr C had 
Ref: DRN01170313paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing  from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Cs ability  to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans four to eight and Mr Lender should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans two to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Mr Cs credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans four to eight should  be removed 
from Mr Cs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender)  should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0117031