K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy. Mr and 
Mrs D say Santander UK Plc mis-sold  them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D took out their original mortgage in 1985, but they didnt take MPPI at this time. 
They applied for MPPI  when taking further borrowing in the early 1990s  and there have  
been changes  to the policy throughout they time it was held.  Santander has provided copies 
of MPPI application forms signed  by Mr and Mrs D, which show that the MPPI was a 
separate, optional  product. Mr D has confirmed that he wanted to take the policy for peace of 
mind.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check  that the MPPI  was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr D says that the policy wasnt right for him because  he had to wait three  months to be able 
to make a claim on the policy, and that if hed known  this at the time he wouldnt have taken 
out the cover, and that this deferment  period put him in arrears. 
Looking at the policy document it appears  that Mr and Mrs D wouldve needed  to make a 
choice as to the length  of the deferment period the policy  had  usually  policies with a longer 
deferment period  are cheaper. Its not unusual for an insurance policy to have a period of 
time to wait before you can make a claim and Santander has sent a policy  schedule  from 
2004 which shows that at this time the deferment period was two months.  The MPPI did 
change over the years  so the deferment  period could  also have varied. But from what Ive 
seen, Mr and Mrs D wouldve had to choose  the deferment period they wanted.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs D about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D has said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs D paid on their MPPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Ref: DRN05507892Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ds MPPI  was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ds commission  was less 
than half the cost of the MPPI.  As thats  the case, I dont think it needed  to tell them about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mr and Mrs D back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0550789