K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  have poorly handled a claim on his car 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr G was on a motorway  when he was involved in an accident. He told Tesco that a lorry in 
the left-hand lane was driving dangerously so he accelerated past them and then pulled in 
front of the lorry leaving a safe distance. As the traffic was slowing,  he touched his brakes to 
slow down and the lorry drove into the back of him. 
Tesco reviewed Mr Gs claim and didnt think it was one they could settle 100% in Mr Gs 
favour. Tesco said this was because in the initial call to Tesco Mr G said hed pulled into the 
left-hand lane and touched his brakes, the lorry then flashed Mr G, so he touched his brakes 
again and the lorry then hit Mr G from behind.  
Mr G wasnt happy with Tescos response, so he complained. He said they hadnt got CCTV 
footage of the accident and had also lied about the police being aware of it. Tesco 
investigated Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold  it. They said when Mr G reported  the 
accident, he wasnt sure of the exact  location.  Because of this Tesco  were  unable to obtain 
CCTV footage. Tesco  also said the police had told them there wasnt  a report of the accident 
available. But the police  did have a call log from the other  driver  reporting it. Mr G didnt 
agree so he brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Gs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld.  He found 
that Tesco had taken too long to try and get the CCTV footage. But as the exact location of 
the accident wasnt clear, Tesco wouldnt have been  able to get it anyway.  He noted that 
liability hadnt been confirmed yet either, but this was down  to a personal injury  claim Mr G 
was making. He said that given the testimonies Tesco believed the likely outcome would be 
recorded as 50/50 split liability. As Tesco had tried to obtain other evidence to support 
Mr Gs claim, he explained that Tesco had investigated the claim fairly. Mr G didnt  agree,  he 
said Tesco  had taken  too long to get CCTV footage and theyd lied about  the police report. 
As Mr G disagreed the complaint  has come to me to decide.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  whos at fault for an accident  as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look 
to see that the insurer has made a fair and reasonable  decision thats  in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy  give Tesco  the right to 
take over, defend or settle a claim as they see fit. This might mean Tesco makes a decision  
Mr G disagrees  with, but the policy allows  it. Ive considered whether Tesco  have done so 
fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN08003732In Mr Gs case Tesco have said liability still hasnt been agreed.  This is because Tesco 
intends to pursue it further but is unable to until Mr Gs personal injury  claim is ready  to move 
forward. As liability hasnt  been  decided yet Im only looking  at what investigation Tesco has 
done so far. 
When looking at the timeline of events I can see Tesco took too long to get the CCTV 
footage. However,  Im not persuaded this makes a difference,  I say that because  when 
Tesco did try to obtain the footage,  they were told they needed the exact  location.  And as 
the exact location of the accident isnt known, Tesco wouldnt have been able to get the 
CCTV footage  even if theyd requested it in time. 
I can also see from Tescos final response  letter that the police said a report wasnt  
available, but they did have a call log from the other  driver. Tesco have provided a copy  of 
the letter from the police which confirms this. As Tescos final response confirmed the 
position with the police,  Im not persuaded theyve  done anything wrong. 
I understand Mr G is happy with the likely outcome of 50/50 split liability.  As this hasnt been 
confirmed yet Im unable to comment on it. From  what Tesco have done Im satisfied theyve  
handled the claim fairly and reasonably so far and in line with the policy  terms by saying  
theyre trying to argue the best possible outcome for Mr G. Because  of this Im not 
persuaded Tesco have done  anything wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0800373