K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited  cancelled his car insurance without notifying him, 
which he says led to him driving without insurance  and being arrested by the police. 
background 
In 2017 Mr B bought a car insurance policy that recorded his driving  through a telematics 
device fitted to his car. In late 2017  he had a car accident which  led to his vehicle  and 
telematics device  being recovered by UK Insurance.  In January 2018 Mr B phoned 
UK Insurance to change his vehicle  details. Mr B didnt install a telematics device in his new 
car, so UK Insurance sent him three  chaser  emails and a letter in late February  2018  giving  
him 14 days notice prior to cancellation.  As Mr B didnt install the telematics  device 
his insurance was cancelled in March  2018.  In April 2018 Mr B had a car accident  and was 
arrested and charged for driving without insurance. 
Mr B complains that he wasnt aware his insurance had been cancelled. He says he wasnt 
informed over the phone that hed need  to remove the telematics device  from his old car and 
fit it to the new vehicle. He also says he doesnt  use the email address UK Insurance sent 
reminders to and he didnt receive the cancellation  letter. 
UK insurance said that they followed their cancellation process  and because  the telematics 
device wasnt installed they sent three email reminders to Mr B and a cancellation letter  
giving him 14 days  notice. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Bs complaint, and thought that UK Insurance  should 
have done more. 
UK Insurance didnt agree, so it was passed  to me for a decision. 
I contacted Mr B and UK Insurance prior to issuing this decision. Even though  I thought it 
more likely than not the notice of cancellation letter UK Insurance sent was received, I said 
that I didnt  think  theyd done  enough in contacting Mr B to notify him of the cancellation. I 
thought that UK Insurance should  have  done  more to notify Mr B when considering  the 
serious consequences a consumer can experience from driving without insurance. 
I recommended UK insurance should:
-Issue a letter of indemnity stopping Mr Bs impending prosecution and to cover the 
losses on the 22 April 2018.
-Remove any adverse  data recorded  about  Mr Bs cancellation  from the Claims and 
Underwriting exchange.
-Pay £500 trouble and upset to Mr B for the stress and anxiety caused  in particular 
for the stress of being arrested, charged and appearing  in Court for driving  without 
insurance.
-Pay Mr B £2975 for the financial loss incurred in the scrapping of his car  plus 8% 
simple interest.
Mr B accepted my provisional recommendations. 
UK Insurance didnt accept my recommendations and said theyd provided  screenshots  
showing the details  of the emails sent to Mr B, policy notes  showing the 14 day notice 
Ref: DRN03429692cancellation letter was sent and proof the emails  sent to Mr B werent returned. So they 
thought theyd done enough to notify  Mr B of the cancellation. 
As UK Insurance  didnt  agree, Ive reconsidered the evidence in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy document. And the relevant terms state:
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time giving you 14 days notice  in writing 
where there  is a valid reason for doing so. 
If you dont install and use the Telematics device supplied to you then we reserve the right to 
cancel your policy if the device isnt installed within 28 days  
Ive thought about whether or not it was fair for UK Insurance to apply these terms and if 
they gave Mr B adequate notice. And I dont think they did. Ive explained why below. 
Mr B says when he spoke to UK Insurance he wasnt notified  that he needed to move his 
telematics device  UK Insurance  havent been about to obtain this call. Mr Bs account 
seems plausible  and Im persuaded that he wasnt notified of the need to move  the device. 
Even if I came to a different conclusion,  I think its likely Mr B didnt have  access to a 
telematics device and UK Insurance havent  provided any evidence  to show they sent a new 
one to him. 
UK Insurance has argued that three  emails  were sent to Mr B advising him of the need to 
install the telematics device. Ive looked  at the policy notes UK Insurance  have provided and 
I think its more likely than not the emails  were sent to Mr Bs correct address. But Mr B tells 
me that he doesnt  use this email anymore, and the email address isnt recorded  on the 
policy schedule provided to Mr B at the time of the change. Ive also not seen anything from 
UK Insurance to indicate that email was Mr Bs preferred form of communication,  and I think 
its reasonable to ask why they didnt  additionally attempt to contact Mr B in another format.  
Im satisfied that Mr B was provided with the policy documentation advising he needs  to 
install the telematics device in 28 days but I dont think  UK Insurance  did enough  to highlight 
this to him. 
UK Insurance has evidenced that they sent one letter to Mr B in late February  2018  advising 
him that his insurance would be cancelled if he didnt install  the telematics device in 14 days.  
Im satisfied that its likely  this letter would have been delivered to Mr Bs correct home 
address. 
However I think UK Insurance should have done  more to highlight to Mr B the need  to install  
a telematics device in his new vehicle. They were given the opportunity  to do this during  the 
phone call when Mr B changed his vehicle  but Im satisfied its more  likely  than not this 
didnt happen.  UK Insurance  followed this up with three emails  warning Mr B if he didnt 
install his telematics device within 28 days of inception the policy  may be cancelled. But 
theres no evidence  this was Mr Bs preferred  method  of communication and Im satisfied its 
more likely than not he didnt have access to these  emails.  
Ref: DRN03429693I understand that UK Insurance  gave  Mr B 14 days notice of the possible cancellation of his 
policy. But, the consequences of driving while uninsured, and of being convicted of doing  so, 
are severe. So I think its fair and reasonable that an insurer gives  adequate  warning  that its 
thinking of a cancelling a policy before it takes that step. And I dont think  one letter  sent to 
Mr Bs home address advising him that his policy will be cancelled in 14 days, if he doesnt 
act, is sufficient for this. 
Mr B installed the telematics  device  on his previous vehicle, and Im satisfied there  was no 
reason for him to not install a device on his new car. Im persuaded, if Mr B was aware that 
he needed to install a device and if he didnt  do so the policy was due to be cancelled, its 
highly likely  he would have requested a new device and installed it in his vehicle. If Mr B had 
installed the new telematics device his insurance  wouldnt have  been  cancelled by UK 
Insurance. For this reason I dont think the cancellation was fair. 
As Mr B was arrested  for driving without insurance,  his car was scrapped.  Ive considered 
whether the scrapping of his car occurred because UK Insurance  cancelled his policy  and 
failed to sufficiently  inform him of this. And I think it did. For this reason  Ive carried  out three 
valuations, and Ive taken an average  of the two more consistent figures. This values Mr Bs 
loss at £2975. 
Mr B was arrested and has since been  charged  and appeared  in Court for driving without 
insurance. I think this has caused Mr B significant stress and anxiety. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited to:
-Issue a letter of indemnity stopping Mr Bs impending prosecution and to cover the 
losses on the 22 April 2018
-Remove any adverse  data recorded  about  Mr Bs cancellation  from the Claims and 
Underwriting exchange
-Pay Mr B £2975 for the financial loss incurred in the scrapping of his car  plus 8% 
simple per annum  from the date of the loss to the date they refund the amount to him
-Pay £500 trouble and upset to Mr B for the stress and anxiety caused 
If UK Insurance  consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from interest, they should tell Mr B how much they have  taken off. They  should 
also give Mr B a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Jeff burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0342969