K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Mrs M have complained that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited automatically 
renewed their car insurance policies without telling  them. 
background
Mr S and Mrs M renewed their car insurance policies with Admiral  in April 2017  under their 
multicar discount. 
In March 2018 Mr S contacted Admiral. Mr S and Mrs M had received a notice from Admiral 
to renew their car insurance in April 2018.  Mr S said he and Mrs M had insured their cars 
with another insurer  in 2017. They said they didnt  know Admiral  had renewed  their policies 
in 2017. So Mr S was very unhappy  that Admiral had collected  the yearly  premium for both 
policies almost a year ago. 
Admiral said if Mr S could provide proof  Mr S and Mrs M was insured elsewhere, it would 
refund the 2017 premium. Mr S did this and Admiral refunded the premium.
But Mr S didnt think Admiral had done  enough to put things right. He asked us to look at 
their complaint. He said Admiral had renewed their policies without their approval. He 
wanted Admiral to pay compensation for causing them  financial  trouble by taking the 
premium in 2017. He believes  the automatic renewal process in general  particularly where  
the premium has increased  shouldnt be allowed without the customers  permission. 
Our investigator thought Admirals renewal  notice in 2017 didnt explain its renewal process.  
So he recommended  Admiral pay interest on the 2017 premium it had collected at 8%. And 
he thought Admiral should pay £50 for the trouble it had caused. 
Mr S and Mrs M accepted  the investigators  view.
Admiral didnt agree. It said it acted  reasonably.  So the case  has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators recommendations to put things right in this case. 
I understand Mr S has his views  on the auto renewal process  in general. We dont think  its 
wrong for an insurer to set up a policy to automatically renew  - provided its clearly  explained 
it will do this to the customer. We know there are potentially serious consequences for 
driving uninsured.  So by automatic renewing,  it can help protect customers  from the risks of 
driving uninsured  because their policy has expired. Insurers  usually provide details of their 
renewal premium around a month before the renewal date. This gives  customers  the 
opportunity to shop  around.  
There isnt anything to show that Mr S or Mrs M contacted Admiral in 2017 to ask it not to 
renew their policies. And I dont think its fair to ask Admiral to compensate  Mr S and Mrs M 
for financial hardship.  
Ref: DRN07690952They didnt know Admiral  had collected  the premium until they received a renewal notice in 
March 2018. So I cant say they should be compensated  for the impact  of a loss they were 
unaware of. And I think Admiral promptly refunded the premium when it received proof they 
were insured  elsewhere.
However, the renewal  letter Admiral  sent to Mr S and Mrs M in March 2017 said Renewing 
with Admiral couldnt be easier and provided a link to Mr S and Mrs Ms policy documents.  
Admiral said it reads:
It's that time of year again and your renewal is due on 01/04/17. To make renewing 
your policy as easy as possible,  we will automatically renew  your policy  based  on the 
information you have  supplied. Please check all your details carefully, including  the 
Proposal Confirmation and call us if you need  to make any changes.
I can see that this is what its renewal letter said in March 2018  (aside  from the renewal date 
being 1 April 2018). But I cant see where Admiral said this in its renewal letter  or documents  
in 2017. In January 2019 our investigator asked Admiral to provide  a copy  of its 2017 letter 
which quotes what it told us. The investigator said he would consider the issue again. But 
Admiral didnt provide  any new documents to support what it said.  
Admiral said we havent upheld similar  complaints.  We look at each case  on its own merit. 
However, Ive looked at the case references provided. These cases relate  to renewal 
documents Admiral  sent to customers in 2018. I agree that these are clearer.  So I dont think 
weve applied an inconsistent approach to this case.
So from what Ive seen,  I think Admiral  should  have done more to explain its renewal 
process to Mr S and Mrs M in 2017. So I think a fair outcome  is for Admiral to pay interest on 
the renewal premium it collected on 1 April 2017.  This should be at a rate of 8% simple  
interest a year from 1 April 2017 to the date it provided the refund. And I think it should  pay 
Mr S and Mrs M £50 compensation for the trouble it caused them.
Ref: DRN07690953my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
pay interest on the renewal premium  Mr S and Mrs M paid for their car insurance  
policies at a rate of 8% simple  interest a year  from 1 April 2017  to the date it 
refunded the premium  and;
pay Mr S and Mrs M £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused them.
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr S and Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple  rate of 8% a year
If Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S and Mrs M how much  
its taken off. It should also give Mr S and Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0769095