K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc refuses  to pay a disturbance  
allowance to her tenants  under her landlord policy, which was she says was promised by the 
loss adjuster after an escape of water at her rented property.
background
Mrs W owns a property which she rents out. There was a leak which caused damage and 
she made a claim under  her landlord insurance  policy. The loss adjuster that managed  the 
claim on behalf of RSA told Mrs W that the insurer would pay a disturbance allowance  of £30 
per day while the property was uninhabitable,  adding that this would be payable until the 
property was vacated to allow the work  to begin. Eventually the tenant family moved out for 
4 days into temporary accommodation while the work was completed.  The tenants had 
continued to pay their rent throughout the period  since the leak.
But RSA refused to pay a disturbance allowance pointing out that the landlord policy didnt 
include payments  to the tenants and so had no disturbance allowance included  under the 
policy. Its loss adjuster had been wrong to tell Mrs W that this would be paid.
Mrs W was unhappy with that decision and complained to this service. She argued that RSA 
should honour the promise that its representative  had made. She said that the tenants had 
been living in uncomfortable conditions and should  be compensated accordingly.
Our adjudicator agreed that the policy didnt include any cover  for this type of payment. But 
he felt that, as the loss adjuster had been  acting  on RSAs behalf, it was fair for something to 
be paid to cover the period that the tenants  were in alternative accommodation.  His view 
was informed by the fact that the loss adjuster had specifically said that the allowance 
should be made for when the property  was uninhabitable. From the information hed 
received, including reports and photographs of the damaged property, he felt that the 
property was only uninhabitable for the four day period when  the work was being carried out. 
While that view didnt entirely  match the information communicated  by the loss adjuster, the 
adjudicator felt that it was a fair interpretation  and represented a reasonable settlement, in 
circumstances where  in fact the policy didnt allow for any payment at all.
RSA agreed to pay the £120 suggested. But Mrs W continued to argue that this wasnt  
sufficient and that £1200 was a fairer figure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has argued that RSA should  pay the allowance to her tenants because its agent  was 
acting on its behalf  when it said the payment would be made. I can understand the 
frustration when such mistakes are made but it doesnt follow,  in my view,  that such 
mistakes must be honoured. Even if RSA itself had initially made a direct mistaken offer of a 
payment but then corrected its error,  I wouldnt  necessarily say that it was liable. In some  
circumstances I might think  it appropriate,  such as where I felt that as a result of the wrong 
information some particular loss had been experienced by the policy holder.
Ref: DRN08337142But Mrs Ws policy with RSA is to protect her from loss as a landlord of a rented property.  It 
includes cover  for damage to property and contents but also a range of costs  that might  
arise, including for non-payment  of rent and to cover  the costs of evicting tenants when 
needed. While it includes the costs of alternative  accommodation for rehousing  a tenant, 
these are to cover the landlords commitments for having to house their tenants elsewhere 
during repair  work. Similarly the policy covers costs  that the landlord is legally responsible 
for under the tenancy. So, it would  follow that if the landlord had to compensate the tenant  
then RSA might be liable to repay those expenses if it felt they were  reasonable. In this case  
there are no provisions within the tenancy agreement for any payments by the landlord for 
disturbance allowance.
In summary,  the policy is in the name, and for the benefit, of the landlord and is not intended  
to benefit the tenant.
I think that point has become confused  during the handling of this complaint. Because,  as 
the tenant continued to pay rent throughout the whole period, the dispute in this case  is 
simply about payments  to them  for their inconvenience rather than to the landlord for any 
financial loss suffered. At one point this service  included  the tenant  as being named as a 
complainant. But that isnt appropriate when the policy is neither in his name, nor issued for 
his benefit. 
Mrs W is entitled to bring a complaint on her own behalf as the policy  is hers but its my view 
that the specific claim she brings here isnt covered by the policy. 
Im required  to make a decision which is fair in all the circumstances of the case and that 
means that Im not entirely  bound by the terms of the policy.  So its possible for me to make 
an award if I think its appropriate, rather than because the insurer is legally  liable for it. But 
that doesnt extend to making  awards to people who arent a party to the insurance policy. 
When alternative accommodation costs are covered  under a policy  it is possible for some  
allowance to be paid for the extra costs that the temporarily housed  individuals typically  incur 
when having to live away from their permanent residence. That would normally be for the 
extra costs  associated with eating out or any other additional costs as a result of not having  
access to personal possessions. 
Ive seen no evidence  here of any additional  costs incurred either as a direct  result of the 
wrong information from the loss adjuster, or while the tenant family were in alternative 
accommodation. Such costs might  reasonably  be recoverable if they were  costs which 
Mrs W needed to cover under the terms of the tenancy or which the insurer felt properly 
flowed from its own actions. And as the policy does cover landlords the cost of temporary  
alternative accommodation for tenants,   
In this case RSA has agreed  with our adjudicators suggestion that it pay £120, effectively to 
honour the loss adjusters promise of an allowance for when the property was uninhabitable. 
In effect it is compensation for the mistake made by the loss adjuster.  But it might also be 
seen as a sum to cover additional  incidental  costs that might have arisen over the 4 day 
period when the property was being  repaired.  In my view there is some justification for some  
compensation to Mrs W for the difficulties caused  by the obvious error made by the loss 
adjuster. Again, this didnt in my view lead to particular financial loss on the part of Mrs W 
but clearly has led to some frustration  and difficulty in her relationship  with the tenants.
Ref: DRN08337143I think that a payment of £120  by RSA as a form of compensation is a fair conclusion to this 
complaint and I dont  think that any higher payment  is appropriate.
Mrs W may choose  to pay that amount to her tenants if she wishes,  but for the reasons 
covered above  I cant compel RSA to pay something to a third party who isnt covered by the 
insurance. I believe that to require RSA to do anything else would be unreasonable  in all the 
circumstances of this case.    
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay £120  in 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0833714