K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain about 
investment advice they received from Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G). 
In short,  the CMC has said they were in a vulnerable position and should not have been 
advised to invest.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In it I explained why I thought  the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. 
I noted that a critical illness insurance claim payment such as Mr and Mrs R received in 2002 
would normally be used  to pay off a mortgage  or other debts.  But in their specific 
circumstances I could  understand why they had instead opted to invest the money. And, 
further, I felt the advice  given to them on how to do so had been generally suitable. 
(In respect  of a secondary matter  of some other investment advice given  to Mrs R in 1997, I 
felt it unlikely thered  been any loss and explained that I didnt intend to uphold  that aspect  of 
the complaint  either. But I asked for additional comment on that point.)
L&G confirmed it had no comments  it wished  to make. 
Mr and Mrs Rs CMC said, in brief: 
Mr R had been recovering from a serious illness. He may have had a good prognosis  
but he wasnt working and was planning  to return to work within a year.  A prognosis 
is an estimate of what may happen in the future. So surely  it wouldve been sensible 
to keep these  funds on deposit until he returned to work?
The suitability letter may have painted a compelling picture of Mr and Mrs R and their 
situation. But this picture was painted by the adviser  and in his words. It was in his 
interest to persuade  Mr and Mrs R to invest the funds rather  than pay off their 
mortgage. The letter was biased towards  the investment being made rather than 
other opportunities being explored.
Finally, although  Mr and Mrs R held a large cash  sum it didnt necessitate  investing  
80% of these funds.  Looking at their circumstances and the uncertain  future  they 
had, if an investment was what they wanted  it shouldve been a much  lower amount. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
I havent been persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusion, which I continue to 
believe is fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate all the points  made by Mr and Mrs Rs CMC and do acknowledge that this is a 
finely balanced matter.  But in Mr and Mrs Rs specific circumstances I think the evidence  
supports an informed decision being made and suitable advice being provided. 
Ref: DRN08785132I accept that a similar objective couldve been  achieved with, say, a reduced amount 
invested and therefore less risk. But ultimately I dont think that what was advised was 
actually wrong, such that the complaint should be upheld. 
(In respect  of the 1997 advice, in light of no there being no further comments  I remain  of the 
view that that part of the complaint also shouldnt be upheld.)
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08785133COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs R, represented  by a claims  management  company (CMC),  complain about investment 
advice they received  from Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G). In short, the CMC 
has said they were in a vulnerable position and should not have been advised to invest. 
background
The complaint primarily concerns advice given to Mr and Mrs R in 2002. At that time,  as a result of Mr 
R experiencing  a very serious health issue, he and Mrs R had received  a payout of around £84,000 
from a critical illness policy taken out in 1998 to cover  their interest-only mortgage.  
Following a series of meetings with an adviser Mr and Mrs R were advised to make a number of 
commitments using the majority of the money:
£20,000 with profits bond  in joint names 
£20,000 investment bond  in joint names
£7,000 each  into a stocks and shares ISA 
£6,000 unit trust in Mr Rs name
£20,000 special interest rate deposit account in Mr Rs name
The recommendations,  with the exception of the investment bond, were accepted and started in 
September 2002. 
As some of the investments are managed  by separate parts of L&G the matter has been considered 
under separate  complaint  references. This decision  specifically deals  with the with profits  bond 
element of the 2002 advice as a result of this split. But the nature of the matter means  that in this 
decision Ill nevertheless discuss  the circumstances  of the 2002 advice and my view of it as a whole.
(Also, in addition to the 2002 advice, a recommendation was made  in 1997 to Mrs R to start a Regular 
Investment PEP in her sole name, investing in the Equity Trust and the UK Active Opportunities Trust.  
This advice has also been considered under this reference, against the same part of L&G.)
L&Gs view has been that neither part of the complaint  should be upheld.  In respect of the latter  the 
1997 advice to Mrs R  L&G was satisfied it was a reasonable recommendation,  primarily because 
the £75 monthly contributions were comfortably met by her £600 monthly disposable income.  
In respect of the main  part of the complaint  about the 2002 advice  L&G felt sufficient  consideration 
had been given to Mr Rs health circumstances  and that thered  been detailed  discussions of the 
possibility of paying off the mortgage as an alternative to investing  and/or keeping  the money on 
deposit. 
However, L&G felt it was Mr and Mrs Rs preferred option to invest some of the money, as Mr R had 
received a very positive prognosis following his illness  and was hoping to return  to work  within a year.  
L&G noted that the recommendation ensured Mr and Mrs R had sufficient money available for 
emergencies and also enough set aside  to make  one years mortgage payments.       
 
Mr and Mrs Rs CMC disagreed with L&Gs view and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator reached a different conclusion  to that reached by L&G and felt the complaint should  be 
upheld. He said that while the recommendation  made to Mr and Mrs R might have been broadly 
suitable in terms of risk level and diversity, they had nevertheless been in a vulnerable position in 
2002 with Mr R still off work following his illness with no guarantee  that he would  return. 
Overall, the investigator  wasnt  persuaded that the risks of investing the proceeds of the claim rather 
than using it to pay off the mortgage had been made sufficiently clear  to Mr and Mrs R. He therefore  
Ref: DRN08785134recommended that they be put back in the position  theyd  have been in if theyd paid the invested 
money to the mortgage rather than making the investments. In respect of the 1997 ISA 
recommendation to Mrs R the investigator agreed it had been broadly suitable. 
L&G didnt accept the investigators view of the 2002 advice. It felt that the primary evidence  the 
suitability letter issued to Mr and Mrs R in August 2002  demonstrated that repayment of the 
mortgage had been comprehensively discussed and that Mr and Mrs R had clearly decided against 
that option.  
That being so, L&G felt it was reasonable for the adviser  to have  then gone on to make a 
recommendation of how to invest the money  a recommendation that the investigator thought was 
otherwise suitable. 
L&G also highlighted that if Mr and Mrs R had used the money to pay off their mortgage theyd have 
been left with no emergency  funds. And thered also been  an early repayment  charge associated  with 
the mortgage. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matters been referred  to me to 
review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
2002 advice
Generally speaking, where protection  is taken out to cover a large liability  like a mortgage,  paying  off 
that liability  is the natural  course of action in the event of a claim.  
However, thats not to say there can never be circumstances where the policyholders might  choose to 
act differently. But theyd need to be fully aware of all the options open  to them and the potential  
downsides of acting contrary to the normal course  of action. 
As noted, at the time of the 2002 advice Mr R was recovering from a serious  illness and had not yet 
returned to work. But it was documented that he had received a very encouraging prognosis and was 
planning to start work again within a year.  The suitability letter paints a very compelling  picture  of a 
couple who had faced a very tough challenge  in dealing  with 
Mr Rs illness but were  now looking very positively at their future.  They were very confident theyd be 
able to manage the mortgage going forward  and, as a result, wanted to keep the claim proceeds as 
separate money. 
I can understand why they might have wanted to do this. They were  still in their 40s. They had in front 
of them the likelihood that they would both be working  for upwards of 20 years. The mortgage 
commitment looked to be reasonably affordable in light of their joint income  around £300  per month. 
As such, I can certainly see the appeal of having in excess of £80,000 invested for their future. 
So, on balance,  Im not persuaded that the adviser acted incorrectly in advising Mr and 
Mrs R to invest (in part) their payout,  rather than settling the mortgage.  I think  they acted as they did 
from an informed, well-reasoned position.
In respect of the advice itself, as the investigator noted, it appears to have been a broadly suitable 
portfolio. Of particular note is the attention given to ensuring that Mr Rs non-working status was 
taken advantage of from a tax perspective. And that the advice  overall included significant provision  
for emergencies - £20,000  of the money placed  in a high interest account along  with a lump  sum 
equivalent to a years worth of mortgage payments retained. It also looks like Mr and Mrs R had a 
Ref: DRN08785135further £3,000 separately on deposit. And the investments themselves were a diversified selection of 
products that balanced low and medium risk. 
In summary, Im satisfied  that the advice  given by L&G was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, specifically  the 
recommendation of the with profits bond.  
1997 advice
This issue is clearly  secondary  to the concerns with the 2002 advice. But Ive still considered  it in 
detail and having done so, I must say that although  both L&G the investigator found it to be suitable 
Im not quite so persuaded. 
It appears that both Mr R and Mrs R were advised to commit £75 per month into a PEP using two 
quite high risk funds  as a repayment vehicle for their interest-only mortgage,  primarily on the basis 
that it offered future flexibility.  Mr R didnt proceed with his part of the recommendation.   
This doesnt strike me as particularly suitable. But that said, I note Mrs R paid a total of £1,500 in 
contributions (presumably stopping  them after 20 months) and received just under  £1,800 back when 
she surrendered the investment in January 2001. As such, I think its unlikely she incurred a loss, so 
as it stands I dont intend to uphold this element  of the complaint either. But Id welcome any 
comments Mr and Mrs R or their CMC may wish to add on this point.       
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  Im currently of the view that 
the complaint should not be upheld. 
Ref: DRN0878513