K820x#14complaint
Mrs N has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold  her a Silver packaged bank 
account in 2009. Shes  used a Claims Management  Company (CMC) to make this complaint.
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already they did not think that the 
Silver account was mis-sold. Mrs Ns representative  did not agree with this and therefore  this 
complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ns complaint. Having done so, I dont  think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver 
account to Mrs N. Id like to explain why I think thats the case.  
Firstly, I will consider whether Mrs N was given a fair choice to take out the Silver  account. I 
can see that Mrs N had held a free account  for a number of years with Lloyds prior to this 
upgrade so I think that she would have been reasonably  aware that Lloyds did free accounts 
and they were an option for her.
Mrs Ns representative have said the following in relation to why Mrs N took out the account;
Her account  was just upgraded without her consent
She did not understand English and therefore  did not know what  she was agreeing  to
She took out the account in order to improve her credit.
She took out the account in order to get a credit card.
Given that these  reasons  are contradictory, it is really difficult  for me to establish  exactly 
what Mrs N says went wrong  during  the sale. I also can see that the last of the above 
reasons was only provided after we mentioned that a credit card was taken out at the same 
time as the packaged bank account. 
Looking at the notes from the time of the sale, it says that Mrs N wanted the account for 
travel insurance I can see that she did travel, in addition, the packaged bank account 
questionnaire that was sent to us initially stated that she did not have alternative  cover.  I 
think therefore Mrs N upgraded her account knowing that free accounts  were an option  for 
her because she wanted the travel insurance benefit rather than for the other reasons 
supplied by her representative.
Lloyds and Mrs N have  said that the Silver account  was recommended to Mrs N. Due to this 
Lloyds had to ensure  that the account was right for Mrs N. In this instance the major benefits  
that the account came with were European  Travel insurance, Breakdown  cover and mobile 
phone insurance.  I note that Mrs N has said that she did travel,  did not own a car and did not 
own a smart phone. I can see that there  is evidence of travel shortly after the account was 
taken and periodically during the time the account was held. So, I think that she couldve 
found the travel insurance benefit useful.  This is the cheapest account  that was available  
that had this benefit. Therefore, I dont  think that Lloyds recommendation was inappropriate.
Ref: DRN02061072I accept that Mrs N may not have been  told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with, but I cannot see anything specific  that she was not told that I think 
wouldve altered  her decision to take out the account. Mrs N may now,  with the benefit of 
hindsight, believe she hasnt benefitted  from the account as much she had hoped and 
expected when she initially took it out. And given what she may have read and heard about  
packaged accounts, I can understand why she might believe this account was mis-sold. But I 
dont think she was misled into taking it. So I want to reassure Mrs N that having looked at 
everything provided and thought about what shes  said, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the 
Silver account to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0206107