K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC have unfairly charged him for a buildings and 
contents insurance policy which he didnt realise  he had.
background
In 2008 a buildings and contents insurance policy was purchased  for Mr Rs house and was 
renewed annually  until 2018. Mr R moved from this property in 2016.
In 2018 on reviewing his direct  debits with a manager at this local branch, Mr R was shocked 
to discover he was paying for home insurance  with Lloyds.  He said hes never taken 
insurance with it for the property he moved  from in 2016 and has never  had an insurance 
policy which  hes paid for monthly with a direct debit.
Lloyds has provided  a mortgage  application to show that Mr R agreed  to take out an 
insurance policy with it alongside his mortgage.  It has also provided copies of the policy  
documents sent for some  of the years  the policy was in place.
Mr R has said he was insured with a third party  for the duration of his insurance with Lloyds 
and some of this cover was provided by a broker, Company A. Because Company A was a 
broker and not the underwriter, it has said it hasnt been able to provide details of the 
policies Mr R had previously as it no longer  holds these records.  But has said it arranged  
insurance for Mr Rs property from 2005 until 2010 and provided policy numbers for these 
policies. But it couldnt provide any policy documents  to support this. It said this is because 
too much  time has now passed and it no longer holds these records.
Mr R believes  Lloyds has made  a mistake with this policy as he never  received any 
documentation for it, either at the outset  or any renewal invites  or notices for the subsequent 
years until 2018 when the policy  was cancelled. He doesnt agree that even  if he signed the 
application form for the policy  alongside the mortgage, that it is fair for Lloyds to retain all the 
premiums when he feels he was dual insured and it failed to provide him notice  of the 
ongoing policy so he could have been  aware of this.
Lloyds could see that Mr R moved  to a new house in 2016  and backdated the cancellation of 
the policy to this point, refunding him what hed paid after this. But it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong  when it insured the property  from 2008 until 2016  and didnt refund any of 
the previous years premiums.
Our investigator looked at Mr Rs complaint  and said he didnt think  Lloyds needed to 
anything else. He could  see Mr R had said he wanted  to take the insurance  out when he 
agreed to this with the mortgage  application and direct debit mandate  he singed in 2008. 
And he was satisfied from the information  provided  that Lloyds had sent renewal invites  each 
year to the correct address for Mr R. So it had done  everything it should have here.  
As Mr R couldnt demonstrate his property was dual insured with any proof any additional 
policy in place for any other year  even more  recent years,  he didnt think it was fair to ask 
Lloyds to refund any of the premiums hed paid it.
Mr R didnt agree and reiterated hes never received any of the documentation sent by 
Lloyds. He said that it is unfair to place the burden  on him to show he was insured elsewhere 
Ref: DRN04881882when he doesnt  think Lloyds has done what it said it did and provide him with his policy 
documents each  year.
Because Mr R didnt agree with outcome reach by investigator, the complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint  
for much the same reasons as our investigator. I appreciate  Mr R will be disappointed  by 
this, but Ill explain  why.
Mr R has said he has no recollection of taking  a buildings  and contents  insurance policy  with 
Lloyds. But from the information thats been  provided, I think its fair to say he did choose to 
take this and agreed to the policy being purchased alongside  the mortgage  he took out  in 
2008.
The mortgage application has a section headed 9.Insurance and immediately under the 
heading it says the following:
The following questions  must be completed if you have asked us to arrange buildings 
and/or contents  insurance for your property.
All the questions on this application were completed. The last of the questions which needed 
completing in this section  asked  what insurance  was required and this was completed with 
buildings + contents  standard. 
The application form made it clear the insurance  sections only needed completing if Mr R 
wished to take insurance through  Lloyds. As it was all completed and he signed an 
accompanying direct debit  mandate for the monthly  payment  to be set up, I think its fair to 
believe this was chosen. But I accept Mr Rs memory of this may well be different to what the 
paperwork indicates happened due to the passage of time thats  passed.
Lloyds has said that the policy renewed automatically each year if Mr R didnt ask them to 
cancel or change this. It sent the renewal  documents for the policy  out at least 14 days  
ahead of the renewal date and these explained what the cost of the new policy would  be as 
well as the cover provided. Mr R has said he has never received any of these documents.
From time to time post can and does go missing, but this isnt common.  And in the UK, post 
correctly addressed rarely doesnt  reach its destination. Ive seen copies of some  of the 
renewal documents  which Lloyds  said were  sent.  I havent seen  one for every year but Im 
satisfied from what I have  seen that these were  correctly addressed to the property Mr R 
was living  in at the time.  So even if these havent been received by Mr R, I dont think  its fair 
to say Lloyds  has done anything wrong  here.
Mr R was paying for this insurance each month by direct debit. This is something  hes said 
he doesnt normally do and he wouldnt  have  opted  for this himself. But I think its something  
which should have  provided him notice of the insurance. The direct debit was separate to the 
mortgage and continued for some years after the mortgage had been paid and I think  its fair 
to expect that Mr R could have noticed  these payments sooner and questioned what they 
were for if he wasnt sure. 
Ref: DRN04881883Overall, I think Lloyds  has done  all it needed  to when making  Mr R aware of his policy and 
that it was providing  him with this insurance.  
If Mr R was able to demonstrate the policy was one of two and his property was dual 
insured, we wouldnt think its fair for Lloyds to retain  all the premiums  it received. So Ive 
considered whether its fair to expect Lloyds to refund  half of his premiums paid.
Mr R has said that the house  has been dual insured for the whole time Lloyds provided the 
insurance but he hasnt been able to demonstrate this was the case. He has sent an email 
from Company A where it says it arranged  insurance from 2005-2010 for the property. But it 
hasnt been able to provide any policy documents to show what this insurance was. Without 
this it cant be shown  the property was dual insured.  
I appreciate this information hasnt been  able to be provided due to the time that has passed, 
but Mr R hasnt been able to demonstrate that the house was insured for the later years 
either. There is no indication of any insurance  at all from 2010 through  until 2016. I dont 
think its unreasonable to expect that more information on these later years  insurance 
policies could be obtained. 
Without anything  to show Mr Rs property was dual insured, I cant be satisfied it was and I 
dont think Lloyds need to anything else with this complaint as a result  of this.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0488188