K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a trade he made,  over 2 and 3 January 2019,  in his Forex  Capital 
Markets Limited (FCML)  account. He says a problem within FCMLs platform led to an error  
in the price at which the trade  was executed  and to his loss.
background
FCML disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
Mr Cs trade was based on a market  order  which  is an order type in which the trade  
is executed at the best available market price  at the time. 
His trade related  to the NZD/JPY currency pair. On the relevant date(s) there  was a 
worldwide market  event featuring the JPY currency that affected pricing in all JPY 
concerned pairs.  A gap between its platform price and the market price  arose,  also 
due to extreme levels of volatility  and lack of liquidity  at the time. The price Mr C saw 
on its platform chart was affected by these elements, whilst its system was in the 
process of validating a reliable  price for the pair. Mr Cs trade was then executed as it 
was supposed  to be executed  at the prevailing  market price in line with available  
liquidity at the time.
Mr Cs trade could  have been  based  on alternative order types  such as a limit order 
which would have  executed only at the limit entry price he set (or better) or a market  
order with a market  range setting (in which he could have  set the range of price 
slippage he was prepared  to accept to fill the order).  However, his use of a market 
order (without a market range setting)  meant  that execution  of the trade  would be 
subject to the available market price  at the time.
One of our senior  investigators looked  into the complaint and agreed with FCMLs position,  
for broadly the same reasons it gave. She referred  to evidence of a press  report about the 
JPY related market  event  at the time and noted that the terms for Mr Cs account  explained  
the risks of prices being affected by gapping/volatility and the risk that execution prices may 
differ from platform prices.
Mr C did not accept this outcome  and asked for a review. He said the matter  had nothing to 
do with gapping  and that the price error resulted from Gains platform  having a problem and 
freezing at the time he placed the trade. He thinks he tried to withdraw  from placing the trade 
at the time but was not allowed  to (by the platform).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint.
Within Mr Cs submissions to this service he confirms that he has traded on almost a daily 
basis in his FCML account for over 14 years and he had never previously experienced a 
freezing of the trading  platform. FCMLs response to us is as summarised above and it has 
not identified that a platform freeze happened at the time of Mr Cs trade. 
Overall and on balance,  there is not sufficient evidence to establish  the platform freeze  that 
Mr C alleges. He relies only on his assertion but he previously admitted to us that he is not 
certain about what happened on the platform at the time and that he does not recall any 
Ref: DRN09208442obvious signs of a platform freeze at the time. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that he had 
never experienced such a thing in FCMLs platform in over 14 years of trading on it.
Based on the balance  of available evidence, I consider that the senior investigators findings  
in the complaint are correct. The press report,  from Bloomberg and dated 2 January 2019,  
refers to the JPY related market/price  event that FCML mentioned and the price  volatility  
(referred to as wild in the report) that resulted  from it. This supports  the price  gapping  that 
FCML has described.
The order  type used  for Mr Cs NZD/JPY trade  meant its execution price  would be/was 
exposed to this JPY market/price event. It is not clear why the alternative order types 
mentioned by FCML were  not used instead, but the point  is that the trade was supposed to 
be executed at market price and it was executed at market price when there was liquidity to 
do so. The matter does  appear to relate to price  gapping and, as the senior investigator said, 
the risks of this were explained  in the terms for Mr Cs account.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 10 February  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0920844