K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that he was mis-sold a home insurance policy  by Lloyds Bank  PLC.
background
Mr C says when he took out a mortgage  through Lloyds in 2006, he discussed insurance  
with a named  bank  employee and he was led to believe  he had to take out his home 
insurance through Lloyds as well.
In or around 2014 he says he realised he could  shop  around for his home insurance. So he 
switched to another insurer.
He complained to Lloyds.  It said it had no record of any home  insurance policy being sold to 
Mr C in 2006. It said a contents  policy had been sold to him in a branch in 2007  but not by 
the employee named by Mr C. That policy was for a one year term.
Lloyds said that in 2013 Mr C took out another policy to cover  his building  and contents, also 
for a one year period.  It said both policies were cancelled after one year.
It said it couldnt comment on exactly what happened at the point of sale due to the time that 
had passed. However,  following the sale of his policy, new business documents  were sent to 
him and hed had a 14 day cooling off period. It said it was the customers  responsibility to 
read through  their documents to confirm  theyre  happy with the policy  and cover provided.  
Mr C said hes dyslexic and vulnerable.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
there was any evidence to show that Mr C had been  mis-sold  insurance by Lloyds.
As Mr C didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Mr C distinctly  remembers talking to a certain bank employee in a branch of Lloyds. 
According to Lloyds records this employee  wasnt involved in the sale of the insurance 
policies to Mr C. Theres no dispute that the person in question  worked  for Lloyds and Mr C 
may well have discussed some matters  with him. But Im not persuaded that the employee  
was actually involved in the sale of insurance  to Mr C.
I know  that Mr C believes  he was persuaded to take out a policy  with Lloyds because he had 
his mortgage with another group company. But the fact that his two policies with Lloyds were 
both taken out some time after Mr Cs mortgage  with a gap of several years in between 
them doesnt  suggest to me that Mr C was told he had to insure  his home  with Lloyds as a 
condition of his mortgage.
Ref: DRN09127662Ive also looked  at whether Lloyds should have  picked  up that it might not be enough to send  
him the policy documentation and expect him to exercise his right to cancel within  the 
cooling-off period  if the policies werent  suitable for him on the ground that Mr C was a 
vulnerable person. I have to bear in mind that it isnt always easy to tell whether someone  is 
vulnerable. In this case Lloyds  knew  Mr C was employed and a home  owner whod taken out 
a mortgage. Im not aware of anything which should  have put it on notice  that he was a 
vulnerable consumer. 
I sympathise with Mr C for being  dyslexic and a vulnerable adult, but Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me that Lloyds mis-sold the policies  to him or to suggest  that the insurance 
policies were unsuitable for his needs.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0912766