K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about a policy provided  by Hambro Guardian (now  the responsibility 
of Countrywide Assured Plc). They say the policy included protection  they didnt need and 
didnt want. They want the costs of the protection returned to them.
background
Mr and Mrs G complained  to the business. It didnt uphold the complaint. That was on the 
basis that although the policy could  have had additional benefits, but, in fact, this specific  
policy didnt. That meant that the only cover Mr and Mrs G were paying  for was life 
insurance. No other cover  put in place or paid for. Therefore nothing was due to them.
Being unhappy with that, Mr and Mrs G came to us. One of our adjudicators  looked at the 
file. In effect, she agreed with the business.  She could find nothing to suggest  that Mr and 
Mrs G had, or had been paying for, the cover they complain about. 
Mr and Mrs G remained  unhappy and have  asked (as they have  every  right to do) for an 
ombudsmans final decision. The file has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I know this isnt what Mr and Mrs G want.
There may have been some confusion here.  Mr and Mrs G seem  to be complaining  about 
any additional cover  which  could have been arranged.  That is what  one of their complaint 
forms says. However I suspect they might also be complaining about the life cover provided  
as a basic or essential part of the policy.
Firstly I will deal with any additional cover. Having looked at the file I can see no evidence 
that Mr and Mrs G were  paying for any additional cover as they may have  thought. There is 
nothing to suggest the cover was selected  or paid for. Additional cover was an option for this 
policy but none seems  to have been  selected.
That being  the case, Mr and Mrs G havent  suffered any additional expense and therefore  
have no loss for which they could be compensated in any event.
As regards  the cover  included as part of the policy, it is an essential part of how the policy 
works. For a number of complex legal and tax reasons the proceeds  of the policy  will always  
be tax free - but only if life cover  is included in the terms  and conditions. To put it another 
way it is not possible  to have a policy like this without life cover. 
As regards  what Mr and Mrs G knew at the time and what  they would have  done  differently it 
is very difficult  to know. What the business had to tell the consumer in 1992 is very different 
from what it would be today. Lending  requirements are also very different. It was common,  
for instance, at the time, for lenders to require  new life cover before  they would lend for a 
mortgage. 
To put it another  way, no life insurance meant no mortgage. Also life cover provided  by 
workplace schemes was rarely if ever accepted as a substitute for a stand  alone policy for 
Ref: DRN00060962mortgage protection. The business was entitled to charge for its services and what it 
included in the policies it sold. This policy, its terms and conditions and the way it was sold 
(insofar as I can see here) are no different from many others.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept  or reject  my decision  before 25 February 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0006096