K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that when a vehicle  he was financing  through an agreement  with Lex 
Autolease Ltd (Lex) was stolen they increased  the settlement  figure they had originally 
provided.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car in January  2017. He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with Lex.
The car was stolen on 1 November 2018. Mr M says Lex provided  him with a quote to settle 
the agreement  at that point as he preferred to do that than to process an insurance claim.  He 
arranged finance  to pay the settlement quote  but when he called Lex to make the payment 
he was disappointed to be told the quote  was wrong. They  said it was provided on the basis  
the car was being sold to Mr M and not on the basis it had been stolen. The total loss 
department provided  a revised quote that was almost £1,800  more  expensive.
Mr M was disappointed  that the quote was higher.  He noted the previous quote was 
supposed to be valid for 30 days.  He was also disappointed with the delays hed 
experienced and as he was dissatisfied  with Lexs response he referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator listened to the calls Mr M had with the business. He noted  that on the first 
call he had asked about buying the car and hadnt told Lex that the car had been stolen. This 
information was only revealed after the settlement  quotation  had been  received and Lex had 
explained that, in those  circumstances,  the quote  couldnt be right as it would have needed 
to be generated  by their total loss department.  So he didnt think  Lex had been wrong not to 
uphold the original quotation. 
He didnt think thered  been unnecessary delays either as he noted Lex had responded to 
Mr Ms complaint within the eight  weeks they were expected to. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators view of his complaint so he asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN08006342Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I dont think Lex were  wrong to refuse to honour  the settlement  quotation they had provided 
on 5 November 2018. They were providing a quotation for the sale of the vehicle to a third 
party and theyd  formulated that quotation based  on the mileage  Mr M had provided them. 
Mr M could  have explained that the car had been stolen at this stage but he didnt.  The 
quotation was therefore created on a false premise  there  could not be a sale as the 
whereabouts of the car were unknown and it was no longer in Mr Ms possession.
I dont think it would  be fair to hold Lex accountable  for the fact that Mr M subsequently 
obtained finance to settle the contract  on the basis of a sale that wasnt possible. If they 
were told the correct information I think Mr M would have been likely to have been provided 
with an accurate quotation  from the correct team who were equipped to understand the 
consequences of a total loss. I dont accept that the total loss valuation  would necessarily 
have been the same as the quotation Mr M had received for someone to buy the car. There 
would have been different  considerations to make; such as an estimation of the mileage  the 
car was likely to have completed.
So, I dont think Lex have  done anything wrong  here. When  they were informed the car had 
been stolen they produced a quotation  on the right premise and it wouldnt be fair to suggest 
they honour the previous  settlement figure that was generated on a false  premise that the 
car was being purchased.
Im also not persuaded that there have been  undue delays. The final total loss settlement 
was provided on 22 November 2018 but Lex were only aware the car had been  stolen about 
a week earlier. I think the circumstances  were unusual; theyd usually expect a consumer to 
provide a settlement though his insurance, so I can accept  that the quotation would take a 
little longer than under  normal circumstances. I dont  think  the delay here was excessive.
I can also see that Lex provided their final response on Mr Ms complaint within the eight 
weeks they are allowed  by their regulator,  The Financial Conduct Authority. So Im not 
persuaded there have been excessive  delays here.
Mr M is also disappointed  that in a call on 29 November 2018 an advisor  suggested she 
would speak to the credit control department and see if the account payments could be 
placed on hold.  He thinks this led to missed  payments being reported  to his credit  file. Im 
not persuaded this was a promise  that the account would be put on hold. It was Mr Ms 
responsibility to make  payments on time and, if they werent and Lex hadnt  confirmed the 
account was on hold, I dont think it would be reasonable to hold them accountable for 
problems Mr M subsequently had with his credit rating.
Ref: DRN08006343my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0800634