K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs M took the PPI when  she applied for her credit card by post.  The credit card application  
form had equally noticeable  boxes to tick to say either yes or no to the PPI. So I think  
Capital One made it clear  that Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI.
On Mrs Ms application, which she signed to apply  for her card,  the box to say yes to PPI is 
ticked. Mrs M says she didnt tick the box because she says she didnt need the cover.  Ive 
thought about this carefully. But the sale was almost twenty years  ago. So I wouldnt expect 
Mrs M to vividly recall  all the details of her card application now. And applying  for insurance 
is often not very memorable. With all this in mind,  what I have  makes  me think  Mrs M chose 
to take the cover  but I can understand  why she might not remember  this now.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M - so it didnt have  to check the PPI was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it - so it looks to me like she wanted this type of 
cover. And from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Mrs M wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it wouldve been useful for her if she 
lost her job or was too sick to work.
Also, from what she has told us Mrs M wasnt entitled at the time to much work pay for 
sickness or redundancy. For a successful sickness or unemployment  claim the PPI would 
pay out for up to twelve months  and on top of any work benefits Mrs M received.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs M has told us about having funds and savings  she 
couldve used to pay off her card. But Mrs M hasnt been able to provide  much evidence of 
what she had in her own name at the time. This isnt surprising given  how long ago it was  
but it doesnt help support what she has said about  not having any use for the PPI. Mrs M 
was entitled to other funds too. But these  werent  held in her name and from what shes told 
us her access to those funds depended  on her family. Taking  into account all Mrs M has said 
about her savings, it doesnt  persuade  me that she didnt have any use for the PPI. Mrs M 
has also told us her partner and family couldve  helped with her card payments if something 
went wrong. But other peoples circumstances and ability to help can change.
Bearing in mind all Ive said above,  overall I dont think  better information about  the PPI 
would have changed Mrs Ms decision to take it.
Ref: DRN05854202Im grateful  for Mrs Ms prompt responses to our enquiries and Ive taken into account all her 
points. But, for the reasons Ive already given above, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0585420