K820x#14complaint
Miss O says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2006.
background
Miss O took out a PPI policy with a further advance on an existing mortgage  in 2006. The 
PPI policy  included accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  The policy  wouldve 
covered the further advance payments with some  additional  cover for up to 24 months if 
Miss O became too ill to work or was made  redundant.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Os case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Os complaint and Ill explain why.
I think Nationwide made it clear that Miss O didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. I say this because Miss O recalled turning down the cover when she applied for 
her further  advance. Miss O told us she called some  time later and arranged the PPI then. 
Ive also noted  the Borrowing Offer  from Nationwide dated 23 November 2006. Section 9 is 
the insurance section.  It says, 
Insurance you must take out through Nationwide.
You are not required to buy any insurance  through Nationwide. 
There is nothing in any of the documentation  I have seen that suggests that getting the 
borrowing was dependant on Miss O having  to take the PPI. And Miss O had the extra  
borrowing for a time before the policy was bought. So, having considered all the submissions 
made to me in this case, it seems most likely  to me that Miss O chose to take the cover  and 
did so knowing she had a choice.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Miss O, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss O got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Miss O about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it couldve been. But considering her circumstances  at the time of the sale,  I dont 
think that clearer information about  the policy would have led Miss O to make a different 
decision. 
I say this because  Mr P was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear  to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions from or limitations to the cover the policy  offered. And 
having thought about the circumstances of Miss O at the time, I think  she could have found 
the policy useful.  Miss O told us she had good  sick pay for a year and some savings. But this 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  if Miss O was too ill to work and it would have 
Ref: DRN07313592reduced Miss Os reliance on her savings. And it would have provided some  financial 
protection to Miss O in the event she lost her job. 
So thinking  about this and the potentially serious consequences  of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home,  I think the policy could have  been useful for Miss O if something  
went wrong. And so I dont think that better information about  the policy would have changed  
Miss Os mind  about taking out PPI.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss O. But 
Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss O because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss O about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Miss O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Miss O had a concern  that Nationwide's commission offer was low. I can see that one of our 
adjudicator's looked into this, was satisfied  that it had been worked out fairly and explained  
Nationwide's offer in detail to Miss O.
Having looked  at Nationwide's offer, I can see that for any period Miss O paid anything 
above 50% in commission  or profit share,  Nationwide have refunded  this to Miss O. Its also 
included additional  compensation to take into account Miss O being deprived of that money. 
So I'm also satisfied that Nationwide has offered fair compensation that is in accordance with 
the Financial Conduct Authority's rules and guidance, and remedies the unfair relationship 
caused by the non-disclosure of the high level of commission and profit share it received 
from the PPI.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, the PPI wasnt mis-sold. So Nationwide Building Society does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Miss O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0731359