K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G took out a PPI policy during a meeting at the same time as he applied  for a mortgage  
in 1999. The policy gave him unemployment  cover and he paid a monthly  amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint.  Mr G disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G says it wasnt explained  that he had a choice,  so he assumed PPI was one of the costs  
of getting the mortgage. I cant know what was said to Mr G, but based on what  we know
about the banks sales process at the time Mr G would have been given a booklet  about
the cover  and then needed to sign a separate PPI application form and direct  debit
mandate if he wanted to go ahead. Santander  has sent in a copy  of the welcome letter  Mr G 
received and this said Thank you for choosing  PaymentCare to protect your mortgage  
repayments which suggests to me it was presented to him as optional  during the meeting.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Gs comments but I also have to consider how long ago
the sale was and how that might  impact what he recalls. Mr G also only took out 
unemployment cover, not the much  more common package of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover. This suggests there was discussion with the bank and he understood 
he had choices.
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary,  I think its most likely that it was made
clear to Mr G that he had a choice  about whether to take the PPI, and he agreed to
take it out.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had a responsibility to check  it was right for 
him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr G said he was entitled  to up to six months  redundancy pay 
but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. It would have 
allowed him to protect his lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial stability 
at an already difficult time. Mr G says he had savings worth around 5 months salary but the 
PPI would have  allowed  him to use these  for other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
protect them for his future needs.  Overall, I think the PPI would have  been  useful if Mr G was 
sick, had an accident  or lost his job.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr G all the information he needed  before he decided
to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear,  but the PPI was competitively priced
and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy
Ref: DRN00483282didnt cover. But Mr G doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things. This
means, overall, I dont  think better information wouldve changed his decision.
Mr G told us he became self-employed soon after taking out his mortgage and remained so 
until 2005, so he was paying  for a policy when he couldnt have claimed. And as he knew he 
was soon to be self-employed  at the time of the sale,  he wouldnt have taken it the PPI had 
he known it was optional.  But these points dont change my conclusion. This policy covered 
people who were self-employed,  and didnt make it any harder for them to claim for 
unemployment. Also, the insurers records show Mr G contacted it in April 2000  and 
cancelled his policy, giving the explanation that hed become self-employed  and taken 
different insurance  elsewhere. So Mr G wasnt paying for this policy for the 5 years he was 
self-employed  but anyway, as Ive said, even if he had been he could still have made  a 
successful claim  for unemployment. 
It follows I dont think Mr G has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0048328