K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander  UK Plc (Santander), trading as Alliance & Leicester at the 
time, mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy at a meeting in 2004  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy cover was increased when they took another mortgage in 2006.
In each case Mr D was employed as a recruitment  consultant. Hed been there almost a year 
when the first mortgage started. Hes told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay and at 
least three months redundancy pay. Santanders  notes from 2006  say Mr D was entitled to 
sick pay that lasted  6 months. From what hes told us, Mr D was in good  health and hadnt 
had any health  issues.
Mrs D has told us she employed in 2004  in the financial sector  and had been there 12 years. 
Shes told us she was entitled  to redundancy pay and to full sick pay of less than three 
months pay. Her employment details arent on the 2004 mortgage application form  which 
instead notes  Mrs D as retired  or not employed. The mortgage  interview  record  noted that 
the mortgage term went beyond Mrs Ds retirement  date and says the mortgage was not 
based on Mrs income. So it appears  the 2004  mortgage was based  mainly on Mr Ds 
income. This also seems  to have been  the case for the 2006  mortgage and the review at 
that time recommended a mortgage term that tied in with Mr Ds retirement  age.
Mr and Mrs D have told us they had life and critical illness  cover  in 2004 and £5000  each  in 
savings they couldve used to make mortgage  payments if they couldnt  work. Notes  from 
the 2006 mortgage show a similar amount of savings.
The PPI policy provided cover for Mr D for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. Initially it cost £36.89 a month and offered  to pay £620  a 
month towards Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. This 
was increased to a £750 benefit costing around £45 a month when Mr and Mrs D took the 
2006 mortgage.
Santander has sent us evidence to show the 2004  mortgage closed in 2006, replaced  by the 
2006 mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have 
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ds representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN02523242The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Santander  should  have told 
Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on 
our website and published  some  example  final decisions that set out in detail how these  
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The policy was sold in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to the sale 
of the policy, nor is the FCAs  Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement the policy was taken with (the 2004 mortgage) concluded in 2006  and 
the 2006 mortgage was arranged after mortgage lending became regulated in October 2004 
and as such was an FCA regulated mortgage.  This means the unfair relationship  provisions 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
Ref: DRN02523243There were a number of industry codes in existence,  which  I am satisfied are applicable  to 
my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In 
particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance  Code for private 
customers  the GISC Code. 
The policy was sold during a period of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at time of the policy sale and later increase:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the relevant times. So Im satisfied I should take these 
codes into account  when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds case.
This policy increase  took place in 2006 after the sale of general insurance  products like the 
PPI policy  became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So 
the FSAs  and the FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules 
(ICOB) were applicable. The increase was also after the sale of mortgage products became 
regulated by the FSA,  so the mortgage conduct  of business rules (MCOB) were applicable. 
When the policy was sold, subscribing lenders and mortgage intermediaries instead  followed 
a voluntary mortgage code. While  predominantly  about mortgage related matters,  it included  
some insurance related  commitments. There is much in common between the statutory 
regime and the non-statutory provisions  it succeeded (and, indeed,  the position  at law).
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The increase  took place after insurance mediation became a regulated activity in 
January 2005,  so when considering a complaint about that Santander  was required to take 
into account the provisions in DISP App 3. The policy was sold before insurance mediation  
Ref: DRN02523244became a regulated activity, so Santander  was required to take into account the DISP App 3 
provisions as if they were  guidance when considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about it.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the PPI was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ds 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  
Mr and Mrs D have said they had no interest  in PPI and it was just included as part of the 
package with their mortgage.  But their 2004  mortgage application had a separate  section for 
the PPI. This offered  three options.  The first was to take the PPI and confirm that a separate  
application form for the PPI had been completed. The second was just to consider the PPI. 
The third was to turn down the PPI. Next to these options, the form said: Please tell us your 
decision about Mortgage PaymentCover. 
So the 2004 mortgage application presented the PPI as something applicants could decide 
to take or to turn down.
On Mr and Mrs Ds form, the option  to take the PPI was ticked. Mr and Mrs D signed the 
form - and I think  they wouldve known that if they didnt want the PPI, or just wanted  to think  
about it, one of the other two options  shouldve been ticked instead.
With all this in mind, I think  its likely  the tick reflects a decision Mr and Mrs D made  about  
the PPI at the mortgage meeting before the form was printed for them to sign.  Also, bearing 
in mind what the form says about  a PPI application form, I think it likely the PPI was set up 
only after Mr and Mrs D completed a separate  application form for it. The use of a separate  
form wouldve also tended  to indicate the PPI was something separate  from the mortgage 
and something about  which Mr and Mrs D had a separate choice to make.
Ref: DRN02523245Mr and Mrs D also signed Santanders  mortgage interview notes, which  had an entry for 
Mortgage Payment Cover and showed  that, from the answers  Yes  and No, the answer 
Yes had been  chosen. Nothing in these papers says Mr and Mrs D had to say Yes  to the 
PPI and they havent said anything to make me think  they were  pressured into the cover.
The 2006  mortgage review recommended that the existing PPI policy  be increased to cover  
the new mortgage. Santander  thinks a policy amendment form wouldve been completed  to 
effect this increase, but it no longer has the form. The 2006  mortgage was an FSA regulated  
mortgage, so a key facts  document was provided for it. This said the only insurance that 
had to be taken  with the mortgage was buildings insurance  and listed the PPI as optional.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs D knew the PPI was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it gave advice when the policy was sold. Mr and Mrs D have referred to 
having been advised to have the PPI to accompany  the mortgage.  The 2006  mortgage 
review says Santander recommended the policy be increased at that time. With all this in 
mind, Im persuaded Santander gave advice  at the PPI sale and when  it was increased. This 
means Santander had to advise Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the PPI was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. Theres no record of exactly  what  Santander discussed 
in 2004 in relation to the PPI. Santander  had some information about Mr and Mrs Ds 
financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application, but theres  no specific evidence  
to show Santander  took steps to establish whether Mr D wouldve  been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the PPI didnt fully meet  
Mr and Mrs Ds needs. 
In 2006 Santander did ask more  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances relevant to the PPI  
for example asking  how theyd meet bills after Mr Ds sick pay ended. But Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to check the PPI was suitable. For example, there  is nothing  to 
suggest Santander considered whether Mr D had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not the PPI was ultimately suitable 
for them. 
In reaching that conclusion, Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the PPI. It seems  likely theyd suffer a fall in income were 
Mr D not working for an extended  period due to unemployment, sickness or accident  - 
even allowing for his work  redundancy benefits and entitlement to sick pay. The PPI 
benefit wouldve  helped  Mr and Mrs D manage the consequences in that situation.
Ref: DRN02523246-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. There  
was nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation which  wouldve  made it difficult for 
Mr and Mrs D to claim.  And they havent  told us of Mr D having  health issues  or existing 
medical conditions  that couldve affected their ability to claim.
-While  the PPI would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each disability  or 
unemployment claim, and would only pay for disability if Mr D were unable to do his own 
job or any other work  for which  he was reasonably  qualified,  it still provided useful cover 
given Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances and the loss of income  they could suffer  were  Mr D 
unemployed for a time or unable to work  due to accident or sickness. As the PPI was to 
protect repayments relating to mortgages  on Mr and Mrs Ds home, I also bear in mind 
the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs D have become unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and the monthly cost of the PPI appears to 
have been affordable  for Mr and Mrs D.
-Mr and Mrs D had some savings theyd chosen  to keep rather  than use to reduce the 
mortgage. By helping  with mortgage  related costs and so protecting their home, the PPI 
benefit wouldve  also helped  Mr and Mrs D keep their savings intact or free to meet other 
liabilities at what could be a difficult time if Mr D were unemployed or too sick to work.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs D 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the PPI to enable them  to understand what 
Santander was recommending to them and make an informed decision about  whether to 
follow that advice  and take the PPI.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  payments if Mr D 
were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have  
taken the PPI without  any sense  of what it was for and of how much  the premium might be. 
Also, the 2004 mortgage application form Mr and Mrs D signed, when referring to the PPI 
cover, referred to the importance of making  sure mortgage payments could be met in case of 
a loss of income  due to accident,  sickness or unemployment.
But the evidence,  from the time of the policy sale and the time of the increase, doesnt tell us 
whether Santander  gave  sufficient information about the actual monthly  benefit,  the actual 
cost or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take the PPI.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D, Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the PPI it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs D all 
the information they needed about the PPI to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ref: DRN02523247Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ds. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs D about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Santander ought to have done either. 
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent  did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it shouldve done  when  it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs D. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not they would have 
still taken the PPI, had Santander done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the PPI it recommended  was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D, I have found the PPI was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs D 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Santander had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs D would have acted  differently or whether they would 
have taken the PPI in any event.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken the PPI and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the PPI, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in return  
and the potential consequences  they will suffer if they do not have insurance,  should  the 
risks come to fruition.
Ref: DRN02523248The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs D had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised them  there was a suitable 
product they could  buy that would protect  their mortgage payments if they were unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, 
at the time of the sale and the increase, that the PPI wasnt  fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs D knew  they would have to pay for the 
PPI, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact premium at the point  they applied  for it. 
Having said that, it seems Mr and Mrs D were told the cost in 2004 before they started to 
pay it (it was set out on the policy schedule sent with the welcome letter). So if this was 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the sale they mightve raised this with 
Santander at the time or reconsidered their decision  instead they continued to pay for the 
PPI before  choosing to increase it when  they took 2006 mortgage. The cost of the increase 
reflected the increase in cover and the actual cost was indicated on the key facts document  
for the mortgage,  issued before the increase took place.  I think  it unlikely the increase in cost 
was significantly different to what Mr and Mrs D wouldve expected  when they agreed to it. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D wouldve found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figures when  they agreed to the PPI.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs D would get 
for a successful claim. But I think its unlikely their expectations about what  the PPI would  
pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) were 
significantly different to what the PPI actually did. I note also they were sent confirmation of 
the benefit amount in the welcome letter and I think it likely the revised  schedule  they were 
sent for the increase would have set this information  out for the increase too.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr D wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  or symptoms Mr D knew or ought to 
have known about at the PPI start date, or for which he had received advice, treatment 
or counselling from a registered medical  practitioner  in the 12 months immediately before 
the PPI start date (with  an exception in certain  circumstances  where there hadnt been 
symptoms or medical interventions or appointments for two years before a claim);
The policy excluded claims relating to chronic  conditions or associated  symptoms Mr D 
had at or before the PPI start  a chronic condition  or symptom being one that continues 
indefinitely or is controlled rather than cured  or has symptoms that recur and have 
needed medical attention in the past or requires medical interventions  long-term;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
To be eligible  for disability, Mr D had to be unable  to do his own job, or any other  work  
for which he was reasonably qualified, as certified by a doctor; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN02523249I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the PPI 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr D was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs D should the insured  risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr D wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions   he 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. So, I 
think Mr and Mrs D still had some good reasons to take the PPI.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mr and Mrs D might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they wouldve  expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs D from taking the PPI, Mr and Mrs D, in their circumstances, still had some good 
reasons to take it.
If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if Mr D were not only unable  to 
do his own job but unable to do any other work  for which he was reasonably qualified, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what to do. And I accept it may have given them 
pause for thought  although given Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances,  on balance, I think they 
wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs D that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for. 
But 12 months was longer  than Mr D wouldve  received full sick pay and his redundancy 
entitlement was significantly less than 12 months  income. In those circumstances, I consider 
it likely  Mr and Mrs D wouldve still thought PPI that paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments 
would benefit  them and help them manage  the consequences if Mr D were unable  to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy.
The PPI allowed for multiple claims to be made.  By helping with mortgage  related costs, the 
PPI benefit could help reduce Mr and Mrs Ds outgoings, help keep their savings  intact or 
free to meet other liabilities at what could be a difficult time if Mr D were unemployed or too 
sick to work  and help reduce the likelihood of Mr and Mrs Ds home being put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs D would still have  taken the PPI. It was suitable for them, sufficiently close  to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  if Mr D were  made  redundant, or unable to work due to accident  
or sickness. 
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs D wouldve taken the PPI 
in any event, notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN025232410Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms  but it is a relevant  consideration,  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they wouldve been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the PPI. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have taken the PPI, Im 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they wouldve still taken the PPI had 
they been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the PPI they were buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Santander should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would put them in a better  
position than they wouldve been in if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs D think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of its 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Santander failed to 
act fairly and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt  say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  it gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect Santander to 
have met in 2004 and 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find Santander  had been  in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
Ref: DRN025232411is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0252324