K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP gave him unaffordable instalment loans. He 
wants a refund of the interest and charges he paid, with interest.
background
Mr L had twelve loans  from Uncle Buck between June 2015 and December 2017. He said he 
was borrowing to repay other lenders  and the loans were unaffordable for him. Uncle  Buck 
said it had carried out adequate and appropriate  affordability checks for each loan. It said 
these showed  that Mr L could  afford his repayments. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought  
Uncle Bucks affordability checks had gone far enough for loans one to four. These  loans 
looked affordable  so she couldnt say Uncle Buck had been  wrong  to approve them.  But she 
thought Uncle Buck should have made better  checks for loans five to twelve.  She thought  
that if it had it would have found  that Mr L couldnt  afford to repay  his loans sustainably. So 
she thought Uncle Buck had been  wrong to approve  these eight  loans. 
The adjudicator thought  Uncle Buck should refund Mr Ls interest and charges for loans five 
to twelve, with interest, offset  this against  the principal still outstanding and pay Mr L the rest. 
She also thought  Uncle  Buck should remove any related adverse information  from Mr Ls 
credit file.
Uncle Buck  replied that Mr L had repaid all his loans except for loan twelve  on time or early.  
It said there were gaps between them. It said the loans  were  small and its checks  were  
proportionate. It said it had relied  on Mr L providing accurate information about  his finances. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls loans from Uncle Buck were for between £100 and £200. Mr Ls loans were  to be 
repaid in three monthly  instalments except for loan twelve  which was repaid in six 
instalments. There were gaps of up to three months  between some of the loans. The highest 
expected monthly  repayments ranged between  £44.92 and £99.30.  Mr L repaid many  of the 
loans early. All the loans were repaid.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure that 
Mr L could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks  needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr L was borrowing,  and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Uncle Buck  said it asked Mr L for his monthly  income and outgoings, including  his credit 
commitments. He said he earned between £1,531 and £1,869. He declared his expenses 
were between £640 and £1,000. Uncle Buck said it also carried  out credit checks on Mr L 
and its provided  copies of the reports for these  but they arent readily interpretable.  It said 
these reports confirmed  Mr Ls stated  income and showed that Mr L had low commitments to 
other short-term lenders  when he applied for his loans. 
Ref: DRN08710352I can see from summaries  that these reports showed that Mr L opened up to 44 other  short-
term loan accounts  in the six months previous to his loans from Uncle  Buck. But it said this 
wouldnt have deterred it from lending to him.  
I agree  with the adjudicator that these checks were  proportionate and sufficient for loans one 
to four. Mr Ls loan repayments were small compared to his stated disposable income. He 
repaid his loans  in full and so developed a good borrowing history  with Uncle  Buck. So there  
were no causes for concern that should have prompted it to make  further checks before 
approving his loans. So I cant say Uncle Buck was wrong to approve these four loans.
But loan five, albeit  small, was Mr Ls fifth in a year of borrowing. I think that from this point 
Uncle Buck  should  have  been prompted by the pattern and frequency  of Mr Ls borrowing to 
ask further questions. This was to ensure that Mr L wasnt dependent  on its loans and was 
using them for their stated  purpose. 
So I think Uncle Buck  should then have  verified what Mr L had told it about his finances  and 
looked at his other borrowing, both regular and short-term and his financial situation. 
Uncle Buck  said it checked Mr Ls credit  file and there was nothing untoward. But I think  
these reports show a high level of borrowing activity that should have prompted  concern and 
further questions. Also,  contrary to Uncle Bucks  view, I dont think the gaps between Mr Ls 
loan applications  were significant.
Uncle Buck  said it relied on the accuracy  of Mr Ls statements. It said it spoke to Mr L to 
confirm what hed told it. But I think from loan five onwards it should have looked to verify  
what hed told it. I can see that it verified  his income  from his credit report. But I cant  see 
that it verified his outgoings for his living expenses and bills or his credit commitments. So I 
dont think Uncle Bucks  checks for loans five to twelve were proportionate  or sufficient. 
Ive looked at Mr Ls bank statements from the time to get information about his finances, but 
Uncle Buck  could easily have asked Mr L for it. These show  that Mr L was borrowing from a 
range of other lenders  and he was gambling heavily. I can see that from loan five onwards 
Mr Ls existing commitments to other  lenders and his gambling accounted for most or all of 
his income. So he didnt have enough  to repay  Uncle  Buck without further  borrowing.  This 
pattern continued  for all eight loans. 
So I think if Uncle Buck  had made better  checks, it would have seen, as I have, that Mr L 
couldnt afford to repay loans five to twelve sustainably.  So I think it was wrong to approve 
these eight loans.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to 
do the following:
1.Refund Mr L the interest  and charges he paid on loans  five to twelve,  adding interest at 
8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle Buck to withhold income tax from that interest. It 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  its taken off if he asks for one.
3.Remove any adverse  information relating to these loans from Mr Ls credit file. 
Ref: DRN08710353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0871035