K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Citibank Europe plc (Citibank) concerning  account  fees deducted 
from his account. He says that he was not made  aware of the basis  for these fees and wants  
them to be refunded. He also wants compensation for the stress he has experienced  
contacting the bank,  and for Citibank  to make it clearer to other  customers how fees can be 
avoided. 
background
Mr S holds a Citi Plus Current Account with Citibank. 
In November 2017 and January 2018, Mr S noticed two charges of £15 each  being  deducted  
from his account. 
He contacted Citibank to query the deductions,  and was advised that this was the monthly 
fee for his account. Citibank explained that the fees related to October 2017 and December 
2017 respectively.  
Mr S asked about the criteria for avoiding the fee and was advised that the fee would not be 
charged in months  when  at least £3500 was paid into the account, or when the balance was 
more then £35,000. Citibank offered to refund the two fees (totalling £30) as a gesture of 
goodwill, and explained that fees would continue to be incurred in relation to months where 
Mr S did not meet the criteria for no fee. 
Mr S confirmed that he understood
Mr S noticed  that fees were incurred again in March, April and May 2018, relating to the 
previous months.  
He complained to Citibank  in May 2018, complaining that he had not understood the basis 
for fees being  charged and that he thought they were unfair. 
Citibank sent him its final response letter in May 2018.This directed him to the terms and 
conditions for his account which said:
3. Relationship fee
3.1 You will not be charged  a relationship fee for any month for which you:
(a) credit  your Account  with a minimum of £3,500 and have a minimum of two Direct Debits 
paid from your Account;  or
(b) have an average  monthly  balance of £35,000 (or currency  equivalent) or more  .
Citibank confirmed that Mr S had not met these criteria for the relevant months and therefore 
rejected Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S was unhappy with Citibanks  response  and contacted us. He told us he was also upset 
that he was unable to use a switching  service to leave Citibank because it did not operate  7 
day switching. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into his concerns and has set out a view to the parties. 
This was that Citibank  had done  nothing significantly wrong and she did not recommend that 
the complaint  be upheld.  
Ref: DRN07693682Mr S was not satisfied  with this response and asked for an ombudsman  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  looked at the terms and conditions which  set out when relationship fees 
will be chargeable, and have listened  to Mr Ss call with Citibank about the earlier  fees. 
I agree  with the adjudicators view that the basis of fee charging was clearly set out to Mr S 
in the account terms, and that it was repeated and explained further  to him during his call to 
the business. 
During that call Mr S confirmed that he understood and he demonstrated understanding  of 
the terms. 
Whilst I understand that Mr S finds the fees frustrating and has sought to avoid them being 
incurred, I think the business has given sufficient  and clear information on when the fees will 
be charged, and Mr S has not met the criteria for no charge.  
Mr S is also unhappy about  Citibank not participating in the guaranteed switching service. 
There is no requirement to participate in the switching service and Citibank has provided  
information about how to close an account,  which Mr S is entitled to do if he wishes.  
I think that Citibank  has acted reasonably in respect of both issues and consequently I do 
not uphold Mr Ss complaint. While I realise this will be disappointing for Mr S, I hope that I 
have explained  why clearly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0769368