K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc handled and settled a claim 
he made under his home insurance  policy for storm damage.
 
background
Mr A holds a buildings and contents  insurance policy,  which is underwritten by RSA. On 4 
October 2018 he was made aware  that some harling  from his roof was lying on the ground.  
So, on 17 October  2018, he contacted RSA to initiate a claim. Mr A told RSA that the harling 
had become loose  and fallen to the ground following a recent storm.
RSA appointed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as B within  this decision, to determine  the cause 
of the damage. B visited Mr As property on 26 October 2018 and completed an inspection 
report. In its report B said it didnt  think the damage  was a direct  result of a one off storm. 
Instead it thought  it had been caused  by a breakdown and deterioration  in the render. It also 
felt the damage  was pre-existing as it was visible on an online map image dating back  to 
May 2018. Overall,  it thought the cause of damage  was wear and tear which  had happened 
over a period  of time.  
RSA told Mr A wear and tear wasnt covered by his policy  and it declined  his claim on this 
basis. But Mr A didnt  agree with this decision. He said two builders, who examined his 
chimney, were of the opinion it had been  damaged  due to a storm and he provided  reports 
confirming this. Mr A also told RSA he hadnt seen the image of his property that B had 
found online. And he stated he was unaware  of any pre-existing  damage to his chimney  in 
May 2018. He explained that his chimney  had sustained similar damage a few years  prior to 
the claim but it had been repaired. He said the position of his chimney meant it could be 
easily seen from the path below his house  and no debris had fallen  on the path below prior 
to the storm in October 2018.
RSA maintained its view that the chimney  stack  had been damaged  due to wear and tear. It 
said the condition  of the render had deteriorated  over a period of time and, so, was excluded  
under Mr As policy.
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. However, our investigator 
didnt uphold  it. They were satisfied a storm had taken place at around  the time the damage  
had occurred and they thought the damage reported  was consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes. But they werent persuaded storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. So, they agreed with RSAs  outcome  and thought it had acted fairly in declining  to 
cover this claim. But Mr A disagreed and asked an ombudsman  to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that damage  occurred to Mr As chimney stack. However, theres a 
disagreement between  the parties  about the cause of the damage and correct outcome of 
this claim.  
I can see Mr A feels very strongly that his claim should be paid. As a longstanding  customer  
I recognise that he feels let down  by RSA. He says the repair required is costly and he has a 
Ref: DRN09622212number of health conditions that mean  hes been caused worry and distress  by what  
happened. But, while I have sympathy with Mr A, Im satisfied RSA handled his claim fairly 
and I dont think it made an error in declining it. Ill explain  why.
Mr A would like RSA to cover the damage to his chimney because  he feels it was caused by 
adverse weather. His policy  with RSA covers damage caused by a storm. But for a claim to 
be accepted under this peril Mr A must  show that any damage was the direct result  of a 
single, weather event.  
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider  three  main  
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Our investigator explained our three stage approach to considering storm claims. And I can 
see they told Mr A that we can only fairly  say a claim should be upheld  under the storm peril 
if we can answer 'yes' to all of the questions above.
In weighing  up the first question  Ive looked to see if Mr As policy  defines storm. However, 
theres no definition  of the word storm within the policy  terms. This isnt unusual. This 
service takes the view that a storm generally  involves violent winds, usually accompanied by 
rain, hail or snow. Like our investigator  explained,  our service generally considers wind 
speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a storm. 
Based on the weather recorded  at around  the time the damage occurred, and in the days  
prior to that, the wind speeds didnt  exceed 47mph until 7 October 2018 when they reached  
48 mph.  I appreciate  Mr A told RSA the chimney damage was brought  to his attention  on 4 
October 2018. But I can see hes been  unclear with dates  here because  he initially  told our 
service the damage  took place in November  2018.  So, Ive considered whether the weather 
recorded up to 17 October 2018,  which is the date Mr A reported the damage to RSA, could 
be considered  to be a storm.
Overall, the weather recorded on 7 October 2018  satisfies  me there was a storm at around 
the date the damage occurred. So, Im able to answer the first question  affirmatively.  
Turning to question  two, Ive thought about  whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. In this case the chimney stack was damaged. Like our 
investigator, Im satisfied  this type of damage is something that could be expected following 
a storm. So, Im able to answer  this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I have to address. Bs opinion  is that storm conditions 
werent the main  cause  of the damage.  As I mentioned in the background to this complaint B 
thought the damage to Mr As chimney  was caused by a breakdown  and deterioration in the 
render, which had happened gradually over a period of time. B said Mr As property was built 
in around 1930  and it said the chimney  stack render was around  90 years old. So, it had 
therefore reached the end of its serviceable  life.
Ive seen the reports from Mr As builder  which he says support his claim that the cause of 
damage was storm related. One report states  patches of harling had fallen from the gable  
chimney stack during  the recent high winds. The chimney stack  appeared to be in good 
Ref: DRN09622213condition with the damage localised to one side which faces the prevailing winds. The other  
report says due to recent high winds, an area of the chimney has become loose and fallen 
to ground level leaving  an exposed area of brick  work.
Mr A feels  RSA didnt take the opinion of his builders into account when it declined his claim. 
But, our service thinks its right for an insurer  to instruct companies with expertise to inspect 
a customers property  to assist it in determining the cause of damage.  Here RSA appointed  
B to do that. And I dont  think it acted  unfairly  in accepting and relying on its opinion  in the 
circumstances of this claim.  
Having carefully considered the reports Mr A provided and the inspection  report RSA 
obtained from B, Im satisfied that it has shown our service reliable evidence  to demonstrate 
that the damage to the chimney, most likely,  occurred due to the condition of the render. Ill 
explain why.
Render deterioration is something that happens  gradually. It doesnt happen due to a one off 
storm event. Correctly  applied and maintained render should be weather resistant and 
unaffected by storm related weather  although  it will deteriorate  over time. And I think  Bs 
report shows the damage to the chimney is most likely due to wear  and tear instead of a 
single one off storm, which  is what is covered  by Mr As policy. 
B took an image  it had seen online into account,  which it said demonstrated the damage Mr 
A had reported was pre-existing. Ive seen  this image. It dates back to May 2018  around 
five months before the storm that Mr A said caused the damage  and it shows  clear 
damage and deterioration  to the chimney.  So, Im persuaded that this image supports Bs 
opinion that the damage  pre-dated the storm.
I think its most likely  that the adverse weather that Mr A experienced in October 2018 
highlighted the chimney render deterioration and caused it to worsen.  Based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied the damage  was caused by wear  and tear, which happened 
over a period  of time.  Im not persuaded it was caused by a one-off storm event.
RSAs policy  booklet makes it clear that loss or damage that happens gradually is excluded  
under Mr As insurance policy. This is in common with most home insurance policies 
because insurance  is intended to cover  the unforeseen. And something wearing out or 
requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
As wear and tear and gradually occurring damage isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Mr As insurance policy I dont  think RSAs decision about Mr As claim was 
unreasonable. It follows that I dont think it would be fair to require it to pay this claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0962221