K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited treated her 
inappropriately when  she experienced  financial difficulties and fell behind with her 
repayments to it.
background 
I set out the background  to Miss As complaint in my provisional  decision. However, I 
summarise the background here again.
In 2015 Miss A entered into a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS for a new car.
Unfortunately, she then went through a number  of difficult life events. She had to stop 
working several times  because of what was happening. As a result, she missed  some of her 
repayments. Eventually, despite her efforts to catch up with her repayments, she owed so 
much that she had to return  the car to VWFS. In addition, due to her circumstances, Miss A 
began to have  some suicidal thoughts, she told VWFS about  this.
VWFS did take on board  that Miss A was going through difficult  times. Its records show  it 
agreed a number of different repayment plans with her. Plus, when  it became  aware  of her 
suicidal thoughts, it treated her as a vulnerable  consumer. But, ultimately,  as the arrears  
were mounting up and it didnt appear that it was likely she could clear them it decided to 
take action. After some to-ing and fro-ing, it invited Miss A to voluntarily surrender the car.
She did this with great reluctance. The car was sold. The money raised was taken off what 
she owed. VWFS asked her to pay what was left. 
Dissatisfied, Miss A came to our service.
In my provisional decision,  I looked at whether VWFS had acted fairly in deciding to end the 
agreement. I thought  it had. I took into account  that there had been several repayment plans 
all of which had broken down due to Miss As inability to keep to them.  Miss As 
circumstances did not seem likely to change and the arrears were  increasing.
That said,  I didnt think VWFS  had done  enough to explain  Miss As options to her and the 
implications of each. With this in mind,  I thought  that the fair option  for Miss A would have 
been to allow her to voluntarily terminate. Further, I thought it should fairly and reasonably 
have paid more  attention  to what she had told it about the state  of her mental health. I could 
see that Miss A and VWFS had talked  about voluntarily termination at the time. It had given 
her until the end of May 2018  to accept. 
I also thought  about whether VWFS ought  to have fairly offered Miss A voluntarily 
termination sooner  than it did. But I concluded up until May 2018,  the parties had both been 
trying to come up with a solution that would  allow Miss A to continue with their agreement  
and keep the car. That seemed to be what Miss A wanted. It also seemed  up until that point 
that she would be in a position  to pay off the arrears. For all of these reasons, I thought 
VWFS had not taken  too long to get to this point.
I made  an observation  about financial difficulties. I said VWFS has an obligation to look into 
how, if possible, it might be able to help Miss A, if she is having  money  troubles. I also noted 
that Miss A had a role to play in helping VWFS help her.
Ref: DRN06765162My provisional decision was that VWFS should  behave as if the agreement with Miss A was 
voluntarily terminated  as at the last day of May 2018  and limit its request for payment to the 
arrears that she had run up at that point which I thought  was £1,855.
I asked the VWFS to confirm the figure of £1,855.
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision  should  they wish to do so. VWFS 
responded to say it accepted my provisional  decision. But it did not confirm  the £1,855  as it 
was asked to do. We have received  no response from Miss A.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS has accepted my provisional decision as I said above. We have not heard from 
Miss A and the deadline  by which we asked her to respond  has passed.
In all the circumstances, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision for the reasons  I set out in it and repeated  again above.  
However, as I dont have  precise information about what Miss A would  have owed if she had 
voluntarily terminated  the agreement  as at the end of May 2018 I have not put that figure  into 
my final decision. But I intend that Miss A should  only have to pay what  she would have  had 
to pay if she had voluntarily terminated  at the end of May 2018. VWFS must not charge her 
for anything  else incurred under the hire purchase  agreement after this point.
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should behave as if the 
agreement with Miss A was voluntarily terminated  as at the last day of May 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0676516