K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited (T/A Cashplus) didnt correctly 
record his opening  and closing account  balance. Hes also unhappy that a technical error 
meant he wasnt able to view transactions on his account between 2 and 9 November 2018.
background
Mr L holds an account with Cashplus,  which is in the name of his business.  He says that his 
accountant noticed that the closing balance of his account on 31 October 2018 didnt match  
his opening balance on 1 November 2018.  He said there was a discrepancy of £846.80.  
Mr L contacted Cashplus  to query his opening and closing account balance didnt match. He 
had concerns that his tax return wouldnt reflect the correct information because of this error. 
And he thought  Cashplus  had committed a data breach. So he complained  about  what  had 
happened. 
After Cashplus investigated Mr Ls concerns  it apologised about what  happened and upheld  
his complaint. It said it was aware that transactions  between  2 and 9 November 2018 
appeared to be missing  on some customers statements. And it acknowledged  that Mr L was 
one of those customers.  It explained  that this was a technical error, which  was preventing  
affected customers from viewing data about transactions  on their account between  these 
dates. 
It said this error was caused  by its third party processor and was still under investigation. It 
anticipated that all transactions would be viewable again from June 2019. And it offered to 
email Mr L a PDF version of the missing transactions if this was needed. But it denied  that 
there had been  a data breach as it said no data had been lost. To resolve Mr Ls complaint 
Cashplus offered him £25 as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr L wasnt happy with how Cashplus had responded  to his complaint. He felt it had taken a 
considerable amount of time to resolve  this problem. And he didnt think it had properly 
investigated the concerns he raised. He rejected  the compensation it offered him and 
thought it should pay more given  what happened  and the stress and upset this had caused.  
So, he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr L, they didnt 
recommend that his complaint should  be upheld. They didnt think  Cashplus needed to do 
anything more here and thought it had offered him an alternative way of viewing the missing  
transactions. They felt that the compensation suggested to resolve this complaint was 
appropriate and fair. And they said Mr Ls concerns about data protection breaches  couldnt 
be looked at by our service. But Mr L wasnt satisfied with this outcome and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
uphold this complaint.  I know  this wont  be the response Mr L will want and I understand he 
feels very strongly about the issues raised  in this complaint.  So, Ill explain why I think  
Cashplus acted fairly and reasonably here.
Ref: DRN09909692Mr L says his account is missing transactions from the end of October  until the beginning of 
November 2018.  He believes this because his accountant  identified a discrepancy  in his 
closing and opening account balances for those dates.  He  said this amounted to £846.80. 
But Ive seen a copy of Mr Ls bank statement for this period, which  shows that his closing 
balance on 26 October 2019 was £730.91.  Following a transaction  for £39.60 and transfer of 
£650 on 2 November 2019  his closing balance that day was £41.31.  Cashplus said there 
were no transactions  after 26 October until 2 November, which  is what the statement Ive 
seen shows. So, I cant fairly conclude that there are transactions missing  between the dates 
Mr L has suggested.
Cashplus has already  accepted that there was an error in that transactions  between  2 and 9 
November 2018  appeared to be missing on some  customers  statements. While theres 
evidence that this issue affected  others I want to make it clear to Mr L that Im only 
considering what  happened to him. So I cant comment  on the views that other  customers  
may have  or how they may have been affected by what happened.
The issue  here is whether  Cashplus acted fairly and reasonably  in offering to put things right 
for Mr L. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
I can understand that not being able to view transactions on his statements must have been 
very frustrating and stressful to him. And I appreciate the inconvenience this is bound to 
have caused.  Im satisfied  that this went beyond mere irritation. Whats clear to me, though, 
is that the issues affecting statements  were  complex. That said,  I think Cashplus proactively 
tried to investigate the cause of the problems  that were affecting some of its customers  as 
best it could. Im satisfied  it took the steps  Id expect it to take in trying  to resolve this issue.
I also think Cashplus offered Mr L an alternative means of viewing his missing  transactions  
because it offered him a PDF copy of his statements. So, if he wasnt able to view his 
transactions online he could view them via the PDF statement.  I think  this goes to show 
Cashplus was trying to assist him and minimise his inconvenience. And Im persuaded that 
the PDF document he was offered would enable him to complete his tax return. I say this 
because it showed  his account  transactions between 2 and 9 November 2018
Overall, I think Cashplus  took matters seriously  and did all that it could to try and resolve the 
problems Mr L experienced. It accepts  that he was caused inconvenience by his inability to 
view the missing transactions.  And its already offered to pay him £25 in compensation to 
recognise this, which  it feels is appropriate.  Its clear  Mr L doesnt think this adequately 
reflects the distress and inconvenience hes been  caused though.  So, what I must 
determine here is whether the amount Cashplus has already  offered is fair and reasonable.
When deciding what potential compensation to award I must take two things into account: 
financial loss as a result of any business  error  and non-financial loss, including  
inconvenience and upset. When considering awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set 
formula that we use to calculate awards  for particular  errors. Its my role to consider what 
impact the banks actions  have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by 
our service,  whether compensation  would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr L lost out financially as a result of what happened. I can 
see that hes mentioned  the possibility of being  charged by his accountant  and incurring fees 
for the time they incurred  in assisting him with the missing transactions.  But I havent seen 
any evidence that a fee has been  charged. In those  circumstances it wouldnt be fair or 
Ref: DRN09909693impartial of me to tell Cashplus to pay financial  loss or compensation for something  that 
theres no evidence  of.
Ive gone on to consider whether an award of compensation is appropriate to reflect the 
inconvenience Mr L was caused. As Ive already explained, his experience  here went  
beyond mere irritation. He was caused  distress  and inconvenience by what happened. But, 
like our investigator, I think the £25 compensation its already offered to pay adequately 
recognises the upset  Mr L was caused  here. Im satisfied it takes into account the overall 
circumstances of what happened.  So I wont be directing Cashplus to pay anymore.
The final part of Mr Ls complaint is about  how he feels Cashplus has breached data 
protection because  he thinks it lost data. But I can see that our investigators already 
signposted him to the Information  Commissioners Office should he wish to pursue  this issue 
further. Our investigator  was right to say the ICO is better placed than this service  to look at 
an organisations handling of personal data because  its not our role to decide whether a 
breach of data protection legislation has taken place. So, I wont be commenting on this part 
of his complaint  as this issue falls outside  of our jurisdiction.
For the reasons  set out above, Im satisfied that Cashplus  acted fairly and reasonably  and it 
wouldnt be fair to ask it to do anymore.  If Mr L would like to accept  the £25 it offered him to 
resolve his complaint he should contact Cashplus directly to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons stated above. Ill leave it 
to Mr L to decide whether he wishes to approach Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  (T/A 
Cashplus) to accept the £25 it offered  to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0990969