K820x#14complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a 
credit card in 2008. He was sold the policy on-line  by Egg, but Barclays  Bank UK Plc is now 
responsible for these  sales. Ill refer to Barclays for consistency.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in December 2018,  setting  out why I 
thought the complaint about  the mis-sale shouldnt be upheld. And I also explained that Mr B 
has already been  paid some money back for the commission Barclays  received from selling 
him the PPI.  
I then asked both parties  to provide  any further submissions or information to me within  one 
month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We havent had any new information or 
arguments and so theres no reason  for me to change the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs mis-sale  complaint. And dont require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay any 
compensation. Barclays has already paid back the amount of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that offer is fair in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08179652copy  provisional decision
complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a credit 
card in 2008. He was sold the policy on-line by Egg, but Barclays Bank Plc is now responsible  for 
these sales. Ill refer to Barclays for consistency.
background
Mr B has already been paid some money for the commission Barclays received from selling  him the 
PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked at this case  said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold in the first place should also be upheld. 
Barclays disagreed  it had mis-sold  the PPI, and so the complaint has therefore been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, I dont  currently intend to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale. 
In his complaint  to us Mr B said he hadnt asked for the PPI and wasnt even aware it had been added 
to his credit card account. However,  we know these events were quite a long time ago and I[m] afraid  
I dont think what Mr B remembers  is correct.  I think the evidence  shows he agreed to the PPI and 
may have since forgotten about it.
Barclays sent us an example of the type of web-based application form Mr B would  have used when 
he was applying for his credit card. From what  I know about these  types of sale  and from what  
Barclays has said about  it  I think Mr B would  have  had to either agree to, or decline, the PPI before  
being allowed  to finish his application. And because we now know PPI was added  to his account, I 
think its highly likely he selected the yes option.
As well as this, Barclays  says Mr B would have been sent a welcome letter about  the PPI. We dont 
have the actual  copy  it sent to him, but it sent us an example of the type of letter that was used at the 
time and I think its more likely than not Mr B would  have received this.
However, Ive also been shown quite a few of Mr Bs monthly credit card statements. These show that 
he was being regularly charged for something called Payment Protection  Plan.  Some  of amounts 
charged werent small, so if Mr B hadnt ever asked for the PPI, I think  hed have  noticed these 
charges and wanted to know what they were for.
So Im afraid I cant  agree  that Mr B didnt  consent to the cover or not know he had any PPI. I think  
the evidence shows he would have been presented with a choice and then have been able to clearly 
see the PPI was set up on his card account.
Being an internet sale, I think its reasonable  to say that Mr B would have worked through  the 
application in his own time, without any advice  from Barclays. So it wasnt an advised sale and it was 
for Mr B to decide for himself whether or not he wanted PPI. Barclays duty was to provide clear  
enough information for him to make  an informed choice.
Ref: DRN08179653Our adjudicator thought a medical issue Mr B had might  not be claimable under  the policy  rules. I 
think that could be right, but Im afraid I dont agree that this is an issue for which we should  uphold 
his complaint. Without wishing to suggest the condition wouldnt  have been  important to Mr B, there is 
very little evidence  that says he would have ever envisaged claiming for it. From what we were told, 
the condition was controlled and he hadnt ever been off work from it. So this particular matter isnt 
something Id uphold the complaint on.
In considering all other aspects of the case, I think he was eligible for the cover which, at 79p per 
£100 of the outstanding credit card balance, appears to have been an affordable charge. Mr B had 
some sick pay with his job, but I dont consider this to make the cover of less use either. The PPI 
would have covered unemployment,  as well as other  forms of disability or sickness and it could have 
reduced his balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the event of a successful claim. I therefore  
currently think  the policy  was of use to him.
 
Which means I dont currently think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr B. Its 
already paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to him because  when the policy  was sold it expected to 
get a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have 
told Mr B about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium.   I think that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Barclays Bank Plc has paid to Mr B the commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I now invite  both parties to send in any further information they have by 11 January 2019.
Ref: DRN0817965