K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs W has complained Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund 
payments the estate  believes  Mrs W didnt make  or authorise.
The estate  is also unhappy  about how Halifax managed their fraud claim.
The estate  is represented by Mrs Ws daughter-in-law who Ill refer to as Mrs W1 throughout.
background
Mrs W died in March 2016. Her son and daughter-in-law  contacted  Halifax.  After reviewing 
her bank statements, they told Halifax payments had been made fraudulently from two of 
Mrs Ws accounts.
The payments being  disputed included  numerous cash machine withdrawals  As a proportion 
of these were completed whilst Mrs W was in hospital, Mrs W1 immediately became 
suspicious. She was also concerned about  five cheques  given to someone Mrs W knew.  
There were also six payments made over the telephone with Halifax. These transactions 
dated from 2012 until Mrs W died and totalled  around £20,000.  Around  £8,000  of the cash 
withdrawals were completed whilst Mrs W had four reasonably-lengthy periods in hospital.
Mrs W1 was also concerned Halifax hadnt picked up that prior to 2012 Mrs W had never 
used a cash machine.  She felt her mother-in-laws change in banking behaviour should have 
been noted. Particularly as this followed a meeting in branch after Mrs Ws husband died 
when Halifax would  have  been aware that Mrs W was potentially vulnerable and not 
experienced managing her own banking.
Halifax admitted theyd not managed  the concerns Mrs W1 had raised well. They offered her 
£750 in compensation for the problems theyd caused (and this was paid). They  refunded 
£2,400 for one of the cheques Mrs W had written. The evidence  showed the signature was 
different to Mrs Ws. But they felt overall Mrs W had authorised the payments  from her 
account and they wouldnt be refunding those to the estate. 
Mrs W1 brought the estates complaint  to the ombudsman service.  Our investigator 
considered the evidence.  This included Mrs W1s strong view that Halifax had acted outside 
of their terms and conditions by accepting Mrs Ws payment instructions over the phone  
whilst it was clear  someone else  the beneficiary  could listen in and participated in the 
calls. He felt that overall it was more than likely  Mrs W had authorised the payments. This 
meant we had a limited  basis to ask Halifax to refund the money.
Mrs W1 didnt agree with this outcome. She provided us with her detailed  comments on our 
investigators view. Shed  been told by a member of Halifax staff that the telephone calls 
should never have  been  allowed  so didnt understand  why we disagreed with that. She also 
provided us with a detailed  14-page timeline of the problems the estate had had with Halifax.
The estates complaint has been  referred to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 14 November 2019. I believed overall there was 
enough evidence  to say Mrs W had authorised the disputed transactions.  I was concerned  
Halifax hadnt provided a good  enough  service to Mrs Ws estate and asked them to pay a 
further £500.
Ref: DRN01076862In response Halifax pointed out theyd  already made  two payments of £750 to Mrs W1 for 
the issues shed  raised.
Mrs W1 provided  detailed  comments on the provisional decision.  The main issues  were:
Halifax had not provided the phone evidence to show whether Mrs W had, in fact, 
authorised the telephone transactions. She believed this was crucial;
Halifax should have  flagged Mrs W as vulnerable when she attended the branch after 
her husband died;
She didnt understand why Halifax hadnt  identified the cash machine withdrawals as 
unusual;
She disagreed  that the gift left by Mrs W could be seen  as substantial considering the 
overall scale of Mrs Ws estate;  
Mrs W1 has placed a lot of reliance on what different  people  at Halifax have told her 
at different times;
Mrs W1 questioned why Id made assumptions  about what may have happened; and
After Mrs W started to receive  larger print bank statements, her spending pattern 
changed.
I now have all I need to complete  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  a slightly 
different conclusion to my provisional decision based on the submissions I received. I 
explain below why.
The ombudsman service  resolves complaints informally.  We are an alternative  to the courts. 
It is not unusual  for us to consider complaints where the evidence is incomplete or missing.  
We take that into account as we make our decisions. This means that we can and do make 
decisions based on the evidence, whether it is incomplete or not. We often have to make  
assumptions about what may have happened. That may be unpalatable to Mrs W1 but is 
part and parcel of the work we do. We make decisions based on the balance  of probabilities.
There are a number of different parts to this complaint and I have considered  all of them.  
Although I only cover  the main aspects in my decision, I hope Mrs W1 knows I have thought 
carefully about everything she has raised. Ive paid particular attention to her lengthy  
submissions, including her response to my provisional decision.  Like her Ive noted Halifaxs 
inability to provide  us with what may have  been crucial phone  evidence.  
vulnerability
After Mrs Ws husband  died, she was on her own and had to manage her accounts herself. 
Ive seen Mrs W1s testimony  that she went to the branch with Mrs W to help sort out direct  
debits and standing  orders.  This must have been a very difficult  time for Mrs W. And Im sure 
when she was at the branch, staff would  have seen how upset she was and how she may 
have difficulty managing.
But Im not sure what Mrs W1 thinks Halifax should have been doing after that. Shes  told us 
herself she wouldnt have  expected them to suggest a Power  of Attorney get set up. Theres 
Ref: DRN01076863no evidence Mrs W was in touch with her bank much and payments were coming in and 
going out of her accounts as may be expected.
Mrs W1 has said Halifax should have identified Mrs W as vulnerable. Therefore she would  
have fallen under Halifaxs  vulnerability  policy. I know Mrs W1 hasnt seen this policy but I 
think she may be surprised if she was to have access to it. This is mostly about identifying  
customers and dealing  with them  when  in debt. There is very little within the policy that 
would cover Mrs Ws situation or mean that Halifax would have adopted  closer  monitoring of 
Mrs Ws account.
Mrs W1 has placed a lot of reliance on Mrs W never  previously using a cash machine.  I 
know shell  be disappointed but I dont expect Halifax to have picked up this way of her 
accessing her money. As far as they were  concerned Mrs W was using her card and PIN to 
withdraw money. She wasnt doing this every  day nor was she taking out the maximum 
every time a cash machine was used.  
Ive also noted  what Mrs W1 has told us about the amount of cash  withdrawn  in 2012. She 
said this totalled  £5,530.  This only averages  slightly more  than £100  a week.  Mrs W1 has 
also suggested this amount  was withdrawn over only a six month period but this would still 
work out at £200 a week so again I wouldnt expect this type of use to flag a banks systems 
as unusual.
were payments authorised by Mrs W?
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent when  looking  after their card and PIN but 
nothing that Ive seen that would have an impact on how Im considering  this case.  So when 
we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
Mrs W1 complained to Halifax about  cash machine withdrawals, debit card transactions  
(generally made at petrol stations), cheques and transfers. For each  type of payment we 
look at how they were authenticated  so the security measures around each payment to 
show they were properly used  and then whether the customer made them  or allowed them 
to be made.
For cheques,  one of the key issues is whether they were signed by the customer. If not they 
would fail an authentication  check. The cheque paid to a third party  well-known to Mrs W  
for £2,400  had, as Halifax noted, a different  signature  to Mrs Ws. Im satisfied this amount 
should have been refunded to the estate and if Halifax hadnt  done so, I would have 
instructed them to do that.
As far as the evidence shows,  Mrs W signed the other  lower-value  cheques. I think  
therefore theyve  been authenticated. And as Mrs W signed  them, I have no grounds  for 
saying she didnt authorise them. Mrs W1 has said she no longer disputes this.
Ive already stated  that Mrs Ws card transactions  whether withdrawing cash  or at a shop  
were authenticated by the use of the genuine  card and Mrs Ws PIN. This is why I wouldnt 
expect Halifax to query these immediately. Im satisfied the evidence shows these were 
properly authenticated.
Ref: DRN01076864Theres nothing to suggest an unknown third party was carrying  out these transactions. 
Mrs W had an occasional companion who Mrs W1 thinks  took advantage of her and used 
her card without Mrs Ws consent. Mrs W and companion went  shopping and out for lunch 
together. And often with the third partys family.  
Its not in dispute  Mrs W on occasion  gave her card and PIN to this person. She helped  with 
shopping and may have  picked up cash for Mrs W when she was unable to get out. Apart 
from her stays in hospital, Mrs W1s evidence has shown there  were  other occasions  when 
Mrs W was housebound. But there is no way for me to tell whether any transactions  were 
carried out without  Mrs Ws authority.
I know Mrs W1 thinks  the frequency and nature  of some of the transactions suggest this. But 
if this third party was using her car to ferry Mrs W from place to place, or take her shopping, 
it wouldnt be at all unusual for her to say this person could use her card to pay for petrol.
Also I cant  discount Mrs W was happy to gift this third party money. I say this because  
Mrs W had decided to leave this person  money in her will. This amounted  to £3,000.  Im 
aware there  was no formal caring  relationship nor was Mrs W paying this person for her 
services. But it wouldnt  be unusual to also give this person some cash or allow  her to use 
her card as some way of recompensing her for what she was doing for Mrs W.  
I know Mrs W1 disputes  this reading of what happened strenuously and Ive taken this into 
account in the decision  Im making. Ive also thought about  the cheque  Halifax  refunded. Im 
sure Mrs W1 must believe  if this was fraudulent then that makes a case other transactions 
were similarly  fraudulent.  But, as Ive confirmed above, this cheque was refunded because it 
failed on its authentication check not because it was necessarily fraudulent.
Ive also considered the transfers Mrs W made  using the phone with her bank. These  
payments all took place  in 2014-15.  Unfortunately Halifax no longer  has a copy  of these 
calls. This is disappointing  as Halifax  obviously listened to these calls when responding to 
Mrs W1s concerns. Then they didnt retain them  when in all likelihood  this case could have 
ended up with the ombudsman service. 
But I can make  some  reasonable  assumptions about what may have happened.  I believe 
Mrs W passed the security checks to enable her to make payments. I say this because if 
Mrs W hadnt passed the security checks,  I dont think Halifax  would have allowed the calls 
to continue. She then may have  handed  the phone to the third party who provided their own 
account details  to enable the payment to be made.  But Im reasonably  confident Halifax 
would not have accepted  the instruction if they hadnt been satisfied Mrs W both knew  and 
specifically authorised the transaction. Mrs W1 says she was told that her mother-in-law 
needed help with her own part of the call but Im not really sure whats  meant by that.
Mrs W1 believes  its suspicious  that Halifax no longer has these calls because  of their crucial  
nature. I dont. In my experience I see banks regularly not being able to provide us with calls 
after a certain time period. I can see why Mrs W1 thinks this is suspicious but Ive got no 
reason to think thats the case here.
Mrs W1 has regularly told us about conversations  shes had with various  staff members at 
Halifax. Its clear  she believes  her mother-in-law  was manipulated and that some  staff 
members have also raised similar questions.  Mrs W1 has asked why would she be told this if 
Ref: DRN01076865it wasnt true. I cant answer  this satisfactorily.  I will say in my experience  I often see and 
hear bank  staff tell customers or their relatives what they think  they want to hear.
I know Mrs W1 is upset about  how Halifax has referred to Mrs W as being  happy and 
capable during these calls. And I agree. Im not sure theyd be in a position to confirm  that. 
And of course she feels Halifax  has acted  outside of the account terms and conditions.  But if 
Halifax had specific authority from Mrs W to speak to a third party  to confirm  certain details   
and as long as they werent her own account security details  then I wouldnt have  expected 
them not to follow that instruction. 
Ive reviewed Halifaxs terms and conditions. Mrs W1 believes these absolutely prohibit other 
people being  present  during a customers call. I dont agree. I would expect banks to show a 
level of flexibility if they can be sure their customer and themselves are both satisfied  with 
whats going on.
Mrs W1 has told us of a conversation Mrs W had with her son in November 2015. She was 
concerned about  loaning  the third party some  money. She also appears to have said shed 
made similar loans previously. But theres  nothing to show  money wasnt  repaid  or that 
Mrs W wanted the money repaid. 
Mrs W1 doesnt believe the last payment for £1,450 related to any loan. Shes  told us that 
Mrs W felt she was being asked for money  in return for ensuring continued visits by the third 
party. I think all this does is suggest  Mrs W did consent to and authorise the payment. 
Mrs W1 has told us that after Mrs W started to get her bank statements in larger  print, the 
spending pattern  reduced. But I also note that the time this happened  is quite  late on in the 
payments under dispute. There could be a number of reasons why Mrs Ws spending  
changed.
On balance I think there is enough evidence  to show Mrs W authorised the transactions.
service provided by Halifax
Its quite clear that the whole process  to get Halifax to review  the fraudulent transactions  was 
massively tortuous. Mrs W1s husband first contacted Halifax  in April 2016  shortly after 
Mrs W died. Halifaxs  final response  is dated  July 2017. Halifax  dont dispute the service 
wasnt as it should  be. They paid £750  in compensation. I considered whether this was 
sufficient in my provisional  decision.  And in doing so I relied on Mrs W1s timeline, which  
was previously shared  with Halifax.
Our investigator was right that I cant consider the distress Halifaxs  actions may have 
caused Mrs W1 as she is representing the estate.  The estate  as an entity  cant get 
upset. However I can look at the inconvenience caused and how the delays and treatment 
impacted the estate,  particularly in its ability to sort out what  Mrs W left.
There were certainly substantial delays in getting  things sorted. Mrs W1 had to deal with a 
myriad of people. Some who told her what she wanted to hear and some that didnt. But I 
can see this will have added to the inconvenience. Because  of the time this took and the 
decision Halifax appear to have taken about splitting consideration of the fraud into different 
transaction types; I believed this has had a serious  impact. I was going  to ask Halifax  to pay 
an additional  £500.
Ref: DRN01076866Halifax confirmed theyd  in fact paid Mrs W1 a total of £1,500. Mrs W1 has said the first 
payment was to her because of the upset caused and the second  payment was to the 
estate. Halifax hasnt  made that differentiation in their evidence  to me. I have considered this 
carefully but overall I think Halifax has now paid more  than I would ask them  to.
I am sure the estate will be disappointed  and it remains open to them  consider what  other 
options are open  to them to pursue this. I know a complaint was raised with the police about 
the actions of the third party but this went no further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold the estate of Mrs Ws complaint 
against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of 
Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0107686