K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc deducts tax from his account reward payment. 
Mr M believes this is against HMRC rules. Mr M is also unhappy that Bank  of Scotlands 
refused to share  the guidance it says its received from HMRC. 
background
Mr M has an account with Bank  of Scotland which receives a monthly reward  payment  on 
the basis that certain conditions are met. Bank  of Scotland deducts tax before making this 
payment but Mr M feels its approach  is at odds with HMRCs rules.
Mr M originally complained in 2016  and Bank of Scotland responded and explained it wasnt 
willing to share the guidance itd received from HMRC. But it confirmed its decision to deduct  
tax before making  the payment was correct.  Bank  of Scotland  paid Mr M £50 for delays  in 
clearly explaining its position. 
Mr M continued to write to Bank  of Scotland but his letters werent answered. In 
October 2017 Bank of Scotland did respond to Mr M and provided some further information 
about its decision. But it didnt share the HMRC  guidance or agree itd made  an error by 
deducting tax from the reward  payment. Bank of Scotland offered a further £100 for delays  in 
responding to Mr M. 
As Mr M remained  unhappy with the banks response, he referred his complaint  to this 
service. An investigator looked  at what  happened  but didnt agree Bank of Scotland had 
made a mistake and thought the £150 total compensation itd offered was fair for the service 
issues. 
Mr Ms didnt agree  with the investigators findings so the complaints been passed  to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M has sent in lengthy and detailed submissions in support of his complaint. I wont  refer 
to each point hes raised and will focus on what I think  are the key issues  here. But I want to 
assure Mr M that Ive carefully considered everything hes sent us and said when deciding 
how to deal with his complaint. 
Id like to start by explaining  that were an informal dispute resolution service and cant  tell a 
business to change the way it operates. The Financial Conduct Authority is the industry 
regulator and sets the rules under which businesses operate. But we can look at whether a 
business has made a mistake and tell it how to put things right if necessary. If we think a 
business has dealt  with a complaint fairly well explain why to the consumer. 
The central issue here is whether Bank  of Scotland is acting correctly by deducting  tax from 
its reward payments before crediting  Mr Ms account. Ive looked at the various bits of 
guidance, rules  and regulations Mr M has sent in. But having done  so Im unable to agree 
with Mr Ms interpretation. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN00410602I looked online and found a document issued  by HMRC in April 2016 called A guide  to 
Personal Savings  Allowance which sets out how it treats interest and reward  payments. In 
the section What counts  as savings income? it lists various types of income, including 
interest. It goes on to say The following do not count towards  the Personal Savings 
Allowance and lists various items. The last item listed says account reward payments  that 
are not interest  or returns on amounts saved.
I appreciate Mr M feels the payments constitute  interest and so should be included  in his 
personal savings  allowance  but thats not what the HMRC guidance Ive looked at says. 
Given HMRCs  guidance  from the time Mr M originally complained specifically says reward 
payments arent included  in someones personal savings allowance  Im satisfied no errors 
been made by Bank of Scotland by deciding to deduct tax before paying Mr Ms account.  
Bank of Scotland refused to share the guidance it received from HMRC with Mr M but Im not 
persuaded thats unreasonable. Businesses  are entitled to keep this sort of information 
private and, as Ive explained above,  Im satisfied its correctly interpreted  the rules here. So 
Ive not found  Mr Ms lost out as a result of Bank of Scotlands approach.  
Mr M wanted me to defer my decision  until he got an opinion  from HMRC as to how 
Bank of Scotland should handle tax on reward payments. But after waiting for over two 
months, Ive decided not to do so any longer because it wouldnt  help me in reaching a 
decision on the complaint. I know what happened, and I am satisfied that Bank  of Scotlands 
interpretation of the tax rules was correct at the time. Ive forwarded Mr M the HMRC 
guidance Ive relied upon and Im satisfied  its clear enough to proceed.  
Bank of Scotlands offered Mr M £150 for the service it provided  while  he was asking 
questions about  its approach. And its clear to me that it has provided poor service as Mr Ms 
letters werent responded to quickly enough. Bank of Scotland has already offered Mr M 
£150 and I think  thats fair in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £150  Bank  of Scotland  plc has 
already agreed  to pay. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0041060