K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Miss N says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ns 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint,  but they thought BOIs offer to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Miss N paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Ns representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ns. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Ns 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BOI should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that BOIs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate  
for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised my reasons  for each 
of these conclusions  below. 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BOI made  it clear that Miss N didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because when Miss N applied for her credit  card online, she would 
have seen a screen which gave her some details of the PPI and asked her to tick a box if 
she wanted to take the cover. I havent  seen anything in the way the PPI was presented  
during this part of the application that would have suggested  it was compulsory.  Miss N 
was then asked  to digitally sign her credit  agreement  separately  to her overall 
signature agreeing  to take out the card  to confirm she did want to take the PPI, and 
this part of the credit agreement  also reiterated  that the PPI was optional.
Ref: DRN01089532BOI didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss N - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss N enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide  for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information BOI gave Miss N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss N  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover.  And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought  she was buying from the information she was 
given. There were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health problems. It 
also looks like it was affordable  so it seems  like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss N would have declined the 
cover had BOI done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back conditions,  in light of 
Miss Ns circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. So I think she would have still thought  she 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss N would have  still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances. So I think that she would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Ns representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the Financial  
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good 
faith meant BOI should have  disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ns representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ns individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ns particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BOI doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss N.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Ref: DRN01089533Having done so Ive decided BOI should have  disclosed the commission it received and that 
BOIs offer to refund  some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
BOI didnt  tell Miss N about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
BOI and Miss N was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because  
BOI didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share  in this case 
I dont think BOI acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss N because  it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Miss Ns representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  they have  said Miss N should get back all the money she paid for the policy  
because: BOI failed  to tell Miss N about  the high commission  and profit-share rates  paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Miss N wouldnt have  taken out the policy  had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN01089534-A court  would have  a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission   it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Miss N in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by BOI not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Miss Ns representative suggests, driven to conclude  that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BOIs failure  to disclose the level of commission  for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for BOI to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Miss N paid for her PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Miss N 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if BOI had done 
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So I consider that BOIs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable)  in 
line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As BOI has already paid Miss N compensation on this basis,  I dont consider it should do 
anything further.  
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Miss Ns complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN01089535But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc should pay Miss N an amount  equivalent to the commission and profit  share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus  associated  interest  where applicable). As Bank  
of Ireland (UK) Plc has already paid compensation on this basis,  I do not consider that Bank 
of Ireland (UK) Plc should do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0108953