K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the way Amtrust Europe Limited has handled the claim they
made under their building warranty.
background
This complaint has been passed  to me to decide  as Mr and Mrs T feel that Amtrust should 
have stepped in and taken over their case as an insurance claim at an earlier  point. They 
say the developer failed to complete the repairs to their two properties  within  the timeframe 
set out in the surveyors report  which  was issued during the time the matter was being 
mediated through Amtrusts conciliation service.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 August 2020.  In my provisional  decision I said:
In September  2017, the surveyor  issued  his technical report which detailed what he thought 
was wrong with the roof of the properties in question and provided information about  how 
these issues should be rectified. The report gave the developer  three months in which  to 
complete the necessary repairs. Its clear  that the work wasnt done within the timeframe  and 
so Mr and Mrs T feel at this point Amtrust should have taken over.  Amtrust didnt take over 
the claim,  and invoke  the insurance  element  of the policy, until 2019. The question I need to 
decide is whether  Amtrusts decision not to step in after the expiry of the deadline, was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T are aware that the actual conciliation service itself is not a regulated  activity  
and so Im unable to comment  on any perceived  failures of that service  in this complaint.  
This does  mean that my consideration  of the issue is somewhat restricted  to whether there 
was evidence that the developer was no longer engaging in the process, which  would be a 
reason for Amtrust to step in.
Mr and Mrs T have  provided us with a lot of information relating to the technical  aspect of the 
repairs and why they feel it was clear the developer wasnt acting in an appropriate manner. 
They have referred to issues such as an incorrect building  certificate being supplied,  which  
impacted the recommendations made for the repairs, and have questioned the qualifications  
of an expert  being  used  by the developer. They have also provided  excerpts  of call 
recordings which they say show that the conciliation service wasnt  working correctly. They 
say they felt unsupported  by Amtrust  when  they attempted to obtain the necessary detail of 
the proposed  repair works, prior to agreeing to any works commencing.
Having looked  at all the available information, I can appreciate this must have been 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs T. Without  commenting on the technical  detail,  I can see there has 
been lengthy correspondence and discussion  on both sides regarding the right way to 
complete the repairs. This appears to be what has prevented the matter from being  resolved 
within the agreed timeframe. But from what I have seen it doesnt appear that the developer  
stepped away  from the process  at the point of the expiry of the deadline or had refused to do 
any repair work. So, I dont think Amtrust  acted  unfairly when it didnt take over the repairs,  
as soon as the deadline  had expired. And whilst it did take time to move matters along  as 
highlighted by Mr and Mrs Ts timeline, I dont think Amtrusts decision to let the developer 
continue with carrying out the repairs, was unreasonable in the circumstances.
Following the expiry of the deadline it appears Mr and Mrs T made subject access  requests 
for information. They were  then dealing directly with the developer in relation to the matter  
Ref: DRN08474192until June 2018  when they contacted the conciliation services again  to query the repairs  
being suggested and provided new evidence. From this point there were further discussions 
and meetings held in order to once again  agree a way forward.  And I can see that another 
technical report was created,  following  which meetings and site visits took place relating to 
the proposals put forward by the developer.
This appears  to have  been a complex matter involving  overseas  manufacturers and a 
number of other experts, so I can understand the need for everyone to be completely clear 
about the right solution before works  could start. And Mr and Mrs T were understandably 
reluctant to accept the proposals  until they felt satisfied that there  was enough  detail  but 
this also had an impact on the timeframe. Whilst I accept that progress was slow,  with 
Mr and Mrs T often  having to chase for updates and details of the next steps,  it seems  that 
the developer  was still engaging with the process  of trying to resolve  the issue  and so Im not 
of the opinion that Amtrust needed to step in during  this time.
I can see that in 2019  the matter was referred  to Amtrust as a result of ongoing  delays and 
inactivity from the developer. After  an attempt to get the issue resolved was unsuccessful, a 
claim was accepted under the insurance policy. From the information available,  Im satisfied  
that Amtrust did what was needed once it was clear  the developer was no longer engaging 
in the conciliation process. So, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ts strength  of feeling on this 
matter, Im not persuaded that Amtrust  ought reasonably to have taken over earlier than it 
did.
Amtrust responded  to confirm it accepted the provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs T also 
responded. They detailed why they are unhappy with the outcome reached  but have 
accepted the decision  on the basis that they understand  the limitations on this service 
relating to the aspects of the complaint  we could consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank  Mr and Mrs T for their considered response.  I appreciate  that this is not 
the outcome they were hoping for and I understand why they feel the way they were treated 
during the conciliation  period was unfair.  But, as I detailed in my provisional decision and as 
they have recognised, this service is limited on what it can consider in this type of complaint. 
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision, I see no reason to alter those 
findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 October  2020.
Ref: DRN08474193Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0847419