K822xcomplaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV 
when claiming  on his travel insurance policy.
All reference to CIGNA includes its claims handlers.
background 
Mr P travelled abroad  in January 2018 and wasnt due to return  until October  2018. Whilst
away, in June 2018, Mr P experienced sinusitis, headaches and back and neck pain. He was
initially diagnosed  with having  a deviated nasal septum. He made a claim on his travel
insurance policy to cover  the medical costs of these symptoms being further investigated,
and treated.
Mr P is unhappy with the way in which his claim was handled  by CIGNA and the service he
received. In particular,  he says: 
-there were unnecessary delays especially between 28 June and 17 July 2018 (the first 
delay), and 28 August  and 25 September 2018 (the second delay);
-CIGNA  regularly requested he provide updates  on his conditions  and the treatment he 
was receiving  when  this information  couldve been  from the medical practitioners directly;
-CIGNA  left it too late to enquire about the level of assistance he might  require to travel 
back to the UK;
-CIGNA  unnecessarily  raised the possibility about cutting short  his trip, and repatriating 
him back to the UK, around  a week before he was due to travel  home  and it hasnt 
provided an adequate explanation why this was proposed; and
-when communicating with him, CIGNAs  representatives used insensitive language.
CIGNA accepts that there were some  unnecessary  delays.  It apologised and offered  Mr P 
£150 as compensation for the second delay.  Mr P didnt think that fairly compensated him so 
complained to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold his complaint. 
As Mr P disagreed, his complaint was passed  to me to look at everything  afresh.  I issued my 
provisional decision in January 2020. I explained why I was planning  to partially  uphold  his 
complaint and direct CIGNA to award  him more compensation. CIGNA replied accepting  my 
provisional decision. Mr P acknowledged  safe receipt of my provisional  decision  but didnt 
provide any substantive comments in response. 
Ref: DRN08554602my findings 
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I partially uphold Mr Ps 
complaint and direct CIGNA to pay him £500 for the trouble and upset hes experienced as a 
result of what its done wrong.
the first delay
Mr P contacted CIGNA on 28 June 2018 to see whether it would either  cover  the costs  of
surgery to correct his deviated nasal septum  - or the cost of obtaining a second  opinion  on
the cause of his symptoms, and whether surgery was needed.  CIGNA  initially  concluded that
his symptoms didnt  constitute an emergency  as around 80% of the general population had a
deviated septum, and the majority dont notice  it. It advised Mr P to wait until he returned
back to the UK for treatment.
After Mr P complained about that decision, CIGNA accepts it shouldve  sought  more detailed
medical evidence  before assessing his claim and that it had relied on general medical
information about nasal / septum deviations rather than Mr Ps specific  side effects  and the
impact it was having on him. It agreed to cover the costs of a second  opinion and carry out a
further medical assessment in light of this.
Although Mr P first contacted CIGNA on 28 June 2018, I think its fair to assume that CIGNA
wouldve taken a couple of days to ascertain the extent  of his symptoms  and agree  a way
forward which wouldve been  reasonable  particularly  as communication was restricted to
email. And although the appointment for the second  opinion didnt take place until
17 July 2018,  I dont think its unreasonable to assume that it wouldve taken a few days  for
that appointment to be made,  depending  on the availability of the appropriate consultant.
So Im satisfied the delays caused by CIGNA unnecessarily delayed  Mr P obtaining
a second opinion by between ten and 12 days.  And it follows  that this had a corresponding
delay on the eventual physiotherapy treatment he was advised  to have as a result of the
second opinion.
I direct  CIGNA to pay £250 Mr P for the trouble and upset he experienced as a
result of the unreasonable delay caused by CIGNA during this period as he was in more
pain, for longer than he needed  to be for up to 12 days. I also think he was put to the
unnecessary worry and stress of fearing that he would be in pain and unable to obtain a
second opinion  - or appropriate treatment - for a number  of months, until he returned back  to
the UK. From the contents  of his emails to CIGNA  around this time, I can see that Mr P was
very worried about his symptoms and how they were affecting him, and clearly frustrated by
the approach  initially  taken by CIGNA.  I also accept  that this worry and frustration wouldve 
further exacerbated his symptoms around  this time.
the second delay
CIGNA also accepts that there were further delays approving further  physiotherapy sessions
after the last of the six physiotherapy  sessions that had been  initially approved had ended.
Having considered CIGNAs  system  notes, there  was a delay of almost  one month  between
the sixth and seventh sessions. Im satisfied the delay wasnt  solely caused by CIGNA as it 
had been waiting for the physiotherapists report and it had informed Mr P before the sixth 
session had taken  place that without  this it wouldnt be able to consider covering  the cost of 
any further treatment.
Ref: DRN08554603CIGNA received the report around  8 September 2018. I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
CIGNA to wait for the report, consider the contents  and ask follow-up questions.  But I dont 
think it was proactive enough in doing  so and it shouldve approved the further sessions more 
quickly than it did. If the delays which Ive attributed to CIGNA hadnt  taken place,  Im satisfied 
Mr Ps seventh physiotherapy session wouldve taken place at least a week earlier  than it did.
I can see that Mr P spent some time chasing CIGNA, particularly after it had received the 
physiotherapy report. I also accept what Mr P says about being worried  about the long pause in 
his treatment, his fear that it wouldve undone  some of the progress hed made as aresult of the 
initial sessions and he wouldve been in less pain had the seventh  session taken  place sooner.
CIGNA has already  offered Mr P £150 compensation. But I dont think this fairly reflects the 
trouble and upset  Mr P experienced  during this time  particularly taking  into account that 
his frustration is likely to have been exacerbated by the previous unnecessary delay CIGNA 
caused. Im satisfied £250 is a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience  Mr P 
experienced during this time.
When proposing  this, Ive taken into account  the potential  long-term  effects this delay in
treatment may have had on his recovery and prognosis going  forward.  But I havent seen
any medical evidence  which  directly links the delay which CIGNA caused and this having a
longer term, detrimental  impact on Mr P.
requesting updates directly from Mr P
Ive seen emails from CIGNAs representatives  to Mr P enquiring  about  things  like the state
of his health and the treatment he was receiving. Mr P says CIGNA shouldve requested this
information from the medical  practitioners directly.
Its not uncommon for insurers  to make these types of enquiries  when providing  assistance
under the policy  whilst the policyholder  is abroad and a claim has been made. So I dont
think CIGNA  did anything wrong  by doing this and nor do I think that the frequency of the
communications was excessive.
enquiring late about the assistance  Mr P might require when travelling back to the UK
I dont think CIGNA did anything wrong here.  It was enquiring as early  as 30 August  2018 
whether Mr P required any assistance  with his flight home. At that time Mr P responded that 
he didnt but if that changed, hed revert back to CIGNA.
There are other occasions closer  to date Mr P was due to fly home when  he was contacted 
about whether  he required assistance  for example, an email  from CIGNA dated 2 October 
2018 requesting  a telephone number to discuss any assistance he may need on his return  flight.
Mr P subsequently confirmed that he cant be reached by telephone and in an email dated
13 October 2018, he says:
can you please stop waffling  about the subject of providing assistance with my flight 
home. If you are able to provide assistance with the flight  please simply state what  
assistance you can provide and then if I wish to proceed with it, we can make 
arrangements now rather  than leaving it to the very last second when it may be too 
late to arrange  it, whatever  it maybe
Ref: DRN08554604CIGNA then sought to clarify and Mr P is asked on 18 October 2018 about  how hes getting
to the airport because we recommend  you are taken in a comfortable car / taxi both to and
from the airport  we can assist with this if needs be 
Regarding travelling home, hes also told:
we just wanted to advise on the assistance  you can get if you feel it may make your
journey more comfortable. Wheelchair assistance can be arranged on your flight
home there are higher  levels that bring you to the door if needs be. Would you be
comfortable with this? It would also be pertinent should you want  wheelchair
assistance that we look at the airline  and their clearance protocol to check  if anything
would need to be completed  pre-flight  wed also like to know  how long you can sit
comfortably for whilst we appreciate you do not feel a call would be beneficial,  it
will allow us to obtain all of this information  in one go
I know Mr P feels that CIGNA didnt explain what assistance it could offer until very close  to
his departure date and that he says he was unsure of the process, the assistance CIGNA
was able to offer and who would pay for that. Further, he says he didnt want  the additional
stress of altering  any plans hed arranged to get home so late in the day. However, I dont
think CIGNA  acted unreasonably  by trying to get an understanding directly  from him as to
the level of assistance he required and without  much  more information from Mr P  other
than confirmation  that he didnt require  wheelchair  assistance - I dont think I can reasonably
conclude that CIGNA  shouldve  done more in the circumstances.
offering to cut short the trip
CIGNA emailed Mr P asking for his thoughts on assisting him to come back  to the UK earlier 
in order to assess care under the NHS, given his ongoing treatment and recovery progression.
Given that Mr P had been abroad  for over nine months and had been  suffering with his
health for around four months of those,  I can understand why he queried  why CIGNA had
raised the possibility  of cutting short his trip around a week  before he was due to fly home.
Mr P didnt want to explore that option  and that was, of course, up to him. However,  I dont
think CIGNA  did anything wrong  by raising  the possibility of this option with him.
When Mr P complained about being  presented with this option, CIGNA reiterated that the 
suggestion was made  so that Mr P could  access treatment on the NHS earlier. However, it 
clarified that as Mr P had declined this option,  CIGNA had disregarded  it. I know  Mr P isnt 
happy with that explanation - and has questioned  CIGNA about this further  - but CIGNA has 
explained the reasoning  behind its suggestion  twice.  I dont think its reasoning was unfair and 
nor do I think it acted  unreasonably by not giving Mr P a further  explanation, despite  his request.
the language used  in emails
There are a number of emails sent to Mr P from CIGNAs representatives between July and 
October 2018 which start: I hope  you are well or I hope this email finds you well  or similar.
Although I appreciate Mr P was in discomfort during  this time, I dont think  the language
used was inappropriate or insensitive.  Further, after Mr P said on 13 October 2018 that he
was unhappy  with these type of comments being  made, CIGNAs representatives didnt use
them again  when corresponding  with him.
Ref: DRN08554605putting things right
I direct  CIGNA to pay Mr P £500  as compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced 
as a result  of the unnecessary delays  it was responsible for between the periods 28 June  
and 17 July 2018, and 28 August and 25 September 2018.
If CIGNA has already  paid Mr P the amount  of £150 it offered to pay him for the unnecessary
second delay,  it can deduct that payment from the compensation  Ive directed it to pay.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Ps complaint and direct  CIGNA  Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV  to 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0855460