K820x#14complaint
Mr P says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with his mortgage. 
background
Mr P took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 1997. He paid a monthly  amount  for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC told us it hasnt  got much  information  about  the sale of this policy. It says the 
mortgage itself was repaid in 2000.  The policy was sold over 22 years ago so it isnt 
surprising that neither  Mr P nor HSBC  still have copies of all the paperwork completed  at the 
time. I also have to take into account  that memories can fade over time. In cases  like this, 
where the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory,  I have to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have happened.
I notice the letter from HSBC dated 31 July 1997. It confirms to Mr P what  cover he has 
taken out on his mortgage following HSBCs recommendations. Amongst other things  it 
includes that Mr P agreed to the PPI. So having considered all the submissions  I have 
received in this case, I think its more likely that HSBC wouldve made  Mr P aware that the 
PPI was optional  and that he chose  to take it, even though he may not remember that now, 
many years later. 
HSBC recommended that Mr P take this policy. So HSBC needed to take reasonable steps 
to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr P. I think the policy was suitable for Mr P based  
on his circumstances  at the time. I explain why I say this below.
Mr P was eligible for the cover,  and he doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions  or limitations  of the policy. 
And I think Mr P had a need for the policy. I say this because Mr P couldnt recall what  his 
sick pay was and he might have had to rely on his modest savings  had he been unable  to 
work. The policy provided cover, in addition, to any employer  benefits Mr P wouldve had. 
And, it wouldve potentially paid out for longer than Mr Ps employer would have  paid him at 
his full rate of pay as sick pay. And Mr P had chosen to protect his savings when he took out 
the mortgage (he could  have chosen  to have a smaller mortgage) and so the policy may 
have further protected those same assets. So I think Mr P could have found the policy  
useful.
Ref: DRN02632372The policy appears  to have been comparable  in cost to other policies offering similar 
insurance at the time and I have been  provided with no evidence that it was unaffordable.  So 
overall I think the policy was right for Mr P.   
Its possible that the information provided by HSBC could  have been clearer. But for the 
same reason  that I think  the policy was suitable,  I dont think  better information would have 
led Mr P to avoid the policy. 
I dont think Mr P lost out because of anything HSBC mightve done wrong when  it sold this 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  about  HSBC UK Bank Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0263237