K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited has categorised  his back pain as chronic 
under a group private medical insurance policy. 
background
In January 2017, Mr O contacted AXA to ask if it would cover physio for back  pain he was 
experiencing. AXA accepted his claim.
In March 2017, Mr O started  receiving  twice weekly physio. In June 2017, he told AXA 
thered been significant improvement and his physiotherapist was going  to reduce his 
sessions to once  a week. 
In July 2017, AXA wrote to Mr O to advise him that it thought his back pain was chronic,  and 
it wouldnt cover  any further  physio sessions after 17 August  2017. This date was later 
extended to 30 November 2017. 
Mr Os treatment sessions decreased until he was discharged in November 2017.  Although  
his treatment was covered by AXA, he disputed its decision  to categorise his back pain as 
chronic. He therefore  brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought the evidence showed  
that Mr Os back  pain would resolve  with treatment, and so didnt think  it had been 
reasonable for AXA to categorise  his condition as chronic. She recommended AXA remove  
the exclusion. 
AXA didnt accept  our investigators recommendations, so the matters been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy defines  a chronic condition as:
...a disease, illness  or injury which has one or more  of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultation, examinations, check-
ups or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back  or is likely to come back.
In September  2017, Mr Os physiotherapist provided some information about  his treatment. 
He said Mr O had complained of thoracic and lumbar pain. And prior to referral to the physio 
clinic, Mr O had undergone an MRI and bone scan  which  showed  no major structural  
abnormality of the back, apart from a signal change at T10 on the bone  scan.  It was thought  
Mr Os back pain could be treated with physio. He said Mr Os symptoms  started  to decrease 
Ref: DRN09708852significantly with treatment, and his physio sessions had decreased from twice weekly, to 
weekly, to fortnightly and he would eventually  be discharged when he could self-manage.
I think its clear  from the above that Mr Os back pain was responding well to the physio 
treatment hed received.  The level of treatment  needed was decreasing and his 
physiotherapist expected to discharge him. In the end, I see he was discharged  from the 
clinic in November 2017. 
AXA has covered  the cost of the physio  sessions that Mr O had, however it thinks his back 
pain had become  chronic. When it reached  this conclusion in July 2017, its reasoning was 
that Mr O had received  20 sessions  of physio for his back pain since March  2017 and so it 
thought his condition was continuing indefinitely. 
The exclusion that AXA applied  to the policy was that it wouldnt cover further treatment 
given by a chiropractor, osteopath or physiotherapist for Mr Os spinal condition  and 
associated symptoms after 30 November  2017. However, it says consultations, diagnostics, 
injections and surgery havent  been excluded from cover. 
I think AXAs approach  here seems  rather odd. If it thought Mr Os back  pain was chronic, 
then there  should  have  been no cover for the condition under the policy (other than cover for 
an acute flare up of his condition which required in-patient treatment). 
In any event, I think AXA was too hasty  in categorising Mr Os back  pain as chronic when it 
did. Regardless of the number  of physio sessions he had had, AXA was aware from Mr O 
that the physio  sessions  were decreasing as his back pain was resolving. I dont think it had 
sufficient reason to say his condition had become chronic at the time. I note it hadnt  even  
received Mr Os physiotherapists  report when it made its decision.
AXA seems  to think the physiotherapists report from September  2017  supported  its decision 
that Mr Os condition was continuing indefinitely, as the physiotherapist didnt give a specific  
discharge date. I disagree.  Whilst I appreciate the physiotherapist didnt say when Mr O 
would be discharged, it was clear  from his report that Mr Os condition had improved and he 
was expected to be discharged rather than have treatment indefinitely. 
Overall, I dont  think it was reasonable for AXA to say that Mr Os condition had become 
chronic when it did. I therefore  agree with the investigator that the exclusion should  be 
removed.  
Since Mr Os complaint was brought  to us, AXA has put forward some  new arguments as to 
why it thinks his condition  was chronic. It makes the point that since the physiotherapist said 
Mr O would be discharged when he could self-manage, it thinks this means Mr O would  
need to be specially trained to cope with his condition.  It also says that Mr O had 
experienced back problems for years. 
Mr O says that when he was discharged, his physiotherapist advised  him to keep his back 
straight and avoid lifting heavy objects. I dont  think this means  he was specially trained to 
cope with his condition. 
When Mr O first asked  AXA to cover his physio, he advised AXA that hed previously 
experienced back pain which had been managed with physio. Despite this, AXA didnt seek  
further information and instead accepted  his claim.  Also, AXA didnt rely on this when 
reaching its conclusion  that his condition  was chronic. I dont think  it would be reasonable for 
Ref: DRN09708853it to do so now. I say that because Mr O explains he had an MRI around five to ten years  
ago which  showed  no abnormality, and he saw a physio  at the time. Theres  no evidence to 
support that Mr Os previous back pain was the same as the problem he experienced in 
2017, so I cant  reasonably conclude that the same problem came back  or that it means  
Mr Os back pain is chronic.
AXAs further arguments therefore dont  persuade  me that it was correct to categorise  
Mr Os condition as chronic. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to 
remove the exclusion from Mr Os policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0970885