K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has declined  a claim he made  on his 
travel insurance policy. 
The policy is underwritten by IPA and its therefore  responsible for this complaint.
background
Mr R has a travel insurance policy through his credit card provider.
Mr R was due to fly out of Heathrow airport on the first leg of a two part flight. His flight  was 
due to leave at 8.30am on a Monday. He says that as a frequent  flyer hes experienced at 
judging the amount of time needed  to travel to the airport, check  his hold luggage  and get to 
the departure  gate. Having calculated a suitable departure time,  he booked an Uber taxi to 
collect him from his home at 6.45am. However, he says the taxi didnt arrive on time  it 
arrived at 7.02am - and the traffic on the journey to the airport was heavier than usual. This 
meant he missed the deadline for checking  in by around three minutes. 
Mr R says an app he has showed  the journey from his home to the airport as 24 minutes. He 
says that if things had gone to plan, he wouldve arrived at the checking in desk  at 7.10am  
35 minutes before the checking  in desk closed and an hour and 20 minutes  before the flight 
was due to depart.
So he made a claim  on his policy for the £300  for the missed flight. IPA declined the claim  
it said Mr R hadnt allowed sufficient time to make  the journey to the airport.
Mr R didnt agree so he brought his complaint to our service. He says IPA has miscalculated 
the timings relating to his missed  flight  and therefore incorrect information  was used when 
assessing his claim.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint as she didnt agree IPA had unreasonably 
declined the claim. This is because Mr R had left himself 20 minutes  to check  in his bags 
before going onto the gate even  if the taxi hadnt been late and there  hadnt  been any traffic  
on the route to the airport. She also noted Heathrows published guidance  for when 
travellers should arrive at the check in desk before their flight  two hours in the case of a 
flight like Mr Rs. Finally,  she acknowledged  Mr Rs point that the policy doesnt define  the 
exact timings for what it considers sufficient  time.  And explained  she felt this is because 
guidance will vary widely depending on the mode of transport and the type and duration of 
journey.
Mr R wasnt happy with this. He says the airport only tell people to get there  early  so they 
spend money. IPA doesnt mention the airports guidelines in their policy terms and, as it 
wasnt seeking to rely on the two hour time allowance, he doesnt agree our service  is 
correct in introducing  this evidence. Finally, he feels  he did allow  sufficient time to do what  
he needed.
The matter  has been passed to me for a decision.   
Ref: DRN03244912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr R that I think the investigator has reached  the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. I think  the investigator  
explained the reasons for this clearly and so theres  little I feel I can usefully add to what has 
already been said.
The relevant  part of the policy says,  
1) You will be reimbursed up to £150 per person for refreshment costs, or up to £300  
per person  (including  £150 for refreshments) for additional travel and accommodation 
costs incurred prior to actual departure on Your Trip if:
a) Missed  departure. You miss Your flight,  train or ship due to an accident or 
breakdown of Your vehicle, or an accident,  breakdown or cancellation of 
transportation on a Public  Vehicle  and no alternative is made available within 
4 hours of the published departure time;
You will not be covered  in respect of the following:
Under missed departure and missed  connection,  claims where insufficient time has 
been allowed  to arrive  at the departure point  or to arrive to connect  with Your 
ongoing journey by flight, train or ship.
Mr R didnt miss his flight due to an accident  or breakdown or cancellation of 
transportation.
IPA declined the claim because it said Mr R didnt leave enough time to make the journey to 
the airport. So the issue I need  to consider  is whether IPA declined  Mr Rs claim reasonably.
The policy and the final response letter from IPA to Mr R dont mention the times published 
by airports recommended for someone to arrive there before travelling. But I wouldnt expect 
them to be exhaustive. And I dont think its unreasonable to take things like this into account 
when considering whether IPAs decision that insufficient time has been allowed was 
reasonable. 
The flight  was due to take off at 8.30am on a Monday with the check  in desk  closing 45 
minutes before that, at 7.45am. So Mr R needed to be at the airport  check in desk by 
7.45am at the very latest and working  on the presumption that there wasnt  a queue ahead 
of him to check in to the flight.
Im also mindful, though,  of the advice  given by many airports  to passengers taking flights.  
Its common for them to recommend planning  to be at check  in/bag drop two hours  before 
Ref: DRN03244913the flight departure  time for UK and European flights. This is what  Heathrow airport 
recommends. For Mr R, that wouldve meant arriving at the check in desk by 6.30am. 
Whilst I can appreciate what Mr R says  hes a frequent flyer and doesnt  need to leave as 
much time as this  he hadnt even planned to leave home by the time Heathrow airport 
recommends he shouldve arrived at the check in desk. Even without traffic and a delay in 
the taxi arriving,  Mr R says he wouldve arrived at the airport  at 7.10am. This is still 
considerably short  of what is recommended by Heathrow itself.
In fact, Mr R says he didnt start the journey until 7.02am. And I think  its fair and reasonable 
to take into account  the fact that the journey Mr R was making  was planned  to take place on 
a Monday morning  at 6.45am. This is a journey from a London address to a London airport 
over a number of miles. I think  these factors in themselves can make journey times  
unpredictable.
In summary,  the journey took longer than Mr R expected which meant he arrived at the 
airport late and missed  his flight.  For the reasons Ive explained,  Im satisfied IPA assessed  
and also declined Mr Rs claim reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy.  It follows 
that I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint  in this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Inter Partner  
Assistance SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0324491