K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) and the level of personal  information 
it includes in letters to her. She is concerned that this information,  if intercepted,  could be 
used for identity theft, and she wants compensation for the distress  and anxiety she has 
been caused by worrying about  her information.  
background
Miss M is a long standing  customer of HSBC. 
She does  not use telephone or internet  banking and her relationship with the bank is usually 
conducted in person  or by letter. 
In December 2016, after Miss M had attended  a branch and updated  her details, HSBC 
wrote to her at her home address. This letter set out details of her full name, address, date of 
birth and country of residence for tax purposes. 
The letter explained that if the details were  correct then Miss M did not have to do anything, 
but if they were  incorrect then she would need to update her details. 
Miss M was concerned that she had received  a letter containing personal data, and noted 
that it seemed  that she received a similar letter each  time she opened a new account in 
branch. 
She complained to HSBC in late 2017 about  this, and set out that she was concerned that if 
a letter  were to go missing her personal data could be compromised and wrongly used. 
She then referred  her concerns to us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Miss Ms concerns and set out a view to the parties.  
This was that HSBC  had not done  anything wrong  and it was a matter  for the business to 
decide how to check information with customers. The adjudicator  pointed  out that this 
service is not the regulator and cannot tell businesses what they can or cannot include in 
letters. She noted that Miss M had received  the letter, which was correctly addressed, and 
so she had not been inconvenienced and her information had not been intercepted.  
Miss M was not happy with this view and asked  for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have held in mind Miss Ms concerns about  security of data, and that she does not think  
any additional letters containing personal details are necessary, when she has confirmed 
this information  in branch. I also understand that she is concerned  that there is no 
consistency between  correspondence sometimes using her title and initials, rather than her 
full name.  
I appreciate Miss Ms concerns, and data security is something which  businesses  must be 
mindful of and take action to protect. 
Ref: DRN06998462I do, however,  agree  with the adjudicators view that, on the evidence, HSBC  has not done 
anything wrong, and has not put Miss Ms data at undue risk. 
Miss M has elected not to use telephone banking or internet banking where different security 
measures are available to check customer details. This is her choice and is understandable 
given her concerns.  
It does, however, limit the ways in which  the business can confirm  the information  it holds 
with her. As the adjudicator set out, businesses are entitled to decide what information they 
want to confirm with customers,  and how they should do this. 
It is clearly important that HSBC take steps to ensure that information is accurate before 
sending out correspondence, but HSBC has used the correct details and the letter  safely 
reached Miss M. 
Miss M has commented that other  correspondence she receives  limits her name  to her title, 
initial and surname. Miss M says that she was caused worry when the December 2016 letter 
then contained  her full name and address alongside her date of birth. 
I understand that this is inconsistent, but I do not think it inappropriate for the business to 
use minimal  personal information in the course of routine  correspondence,  and then more 
detail when the purpose is to check the accuracy of that information. 
On the evidence I have seen I do not think that HSBC included  an excessive level of detail in 
the letter, and so I cannot say it acted wrongly.  
Consequently, whilst  I sympathise with the worry that Miss M has suffered, I cannot  say that 
it was as a result of HSBCs inappropriate actions, nor that the business should pay her 
compensation. 
Whilst I understand that Miss M will be disappointed by this decision, I cannot uphold  her 
complaint and do not ask HSBC UK Bank  Plc to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint  and do not ask HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do anything  further.  Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 21 March 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0699846