K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint concerns the inflation option applied to their Old Mutual Wealth  
Life Assurance Limited whole of life policy. Their representative has said that they were  
under the impression the annual inflation increases in the policys  sum assured had been 
calculated on the same basis as the initial cover  to be sustainable for 61 years   but 
theyve recently been informed  that this isnt the case.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, a copy of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
I explained that I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said,  in summary; 
I think  Old Mutual maybe  could have done more to explain how the increases worked. I 
dont think I can fairly  conclude that they should have done, to such  a degree that it has 
acted incorrectly. In any event, the initial and ongoing information aside, as early as 2010  the 
annual review letters were  making  clear  that the cover had become sustainable for only 
another five years. So, it seems  apparent  that Mr and Mrs L had opportunity to question the 
position much earlier.  
In all the circumstances I dont think it would reasonable to require Old Mutual to meet the 
cost of restructuring  the policy to its original sustainability.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  responded to say, in brief; 
The review letters dont state that the increases in benefits and premiums are 
calculated on a basis other than a whole  of life (standard)  basis.
The review letters make no reference  to the literature  Old Mutual seeks  to rely on 
and which Id referred to in my provisional  decision.  The literature was not received 
by Mr and Mrs L or their adviser. So, its difficult to understand  how they can have 
known information  that wasnt referred to in the review letters  and wasnt included 
with the letters.  The conclusion Id drawn  in my provisional decision about this 
unfairly prejudices the position of Mr and Mrs L.
The review letter in 2010 confirmed that the premium was expected to be enough  for 
the next five years based on fund growth  of 6%. Old Mutual has confirmed that the 
growth of the fund from 1998 to 2010  was just over 84%.  So, my conclusion that the 
review letters made  it clear the cover had become sustainable for only another five 
years wasnt  supported by the facts. 
The product  literature gave an unqualified statement that the premium  would 
increase under the inflation option  on the same basis  as used to calculate the original 
premium. The example used to explain  the impact  on premiums wasnt  limited to 
circumstances where  premiums were loaded.  Given there are only two types of cover  
available (maximum and standard)  it seems reasonable to expect that the literature is 
the appropriate place to highlight  any distinction in treatment.
The issue of a different treatment  of premium calculation for annual increases  (as 
opposed to the original plan basis) was made known to Mr and Mrs L only after 
questions were  raised in 2018  21 years after the plan started. Mr and Mrs L have 
accepted the annual  increases based on the review  letters  and theyre entitled to 
have their position protected where  Old Mutual  has made promises it now seeks  to 
avoid.
Ref: DRN06037122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to depart  from the conclusions reached in my provisional  decision. 
As I noted  previously, I accept there may have been  a degree of ambiguity in the way in 
which the calculation  of the inflation rises  was communicated. But Ive not seen that there 
was a commitment made, or guarantee given, that Old Mutual would ensure the policy would 
(on a standard basis) continue to be sustainable,  regardless of the increasing sum assured, 
for the original 61 years  that was quoted   so until 2058. Where the 61-year term was 
mentioned, in the key features document, it was in the context of a projection based on 
current (in 1997) life cover costs.  
I also note the representatives further  assertions that the information leaflets that Old Mutual 
has confirmed were  sent with review  letters  were  never received. But even if this was the 
case  and in the face of the clearly conflicting  evidence on this point Im unable  to make a 
finding on the issue  I would still not be able to conclude that Old Mutual acted incorrectly. 
Mr and Mrs L and their representative have seen the policys  sum assured rise from the 
original £800,000 figure in 1997  to a current figure  of over £5.5million, with a monthly 
premium in excess of £5,000. But there has been no further  reference  to the 61-year 
sustainability since the outset. Instead, as noted  in my provisional decision, there have been 
references since 2010 to a significantly limited  sustainability  of only five years.
I note the representatives point about  the fund performance.  But I dont agree that this 
information would outweigh the clear  references to the policy no longer being sustainable for 
the term projected at the outset.
Ref: DRN06037123my final decision
For the reasons  given  in the attached provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06037124COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint concerns the inflation option applied to their Old Mutual  Wealth Life 
Assurance Limited  whole of life policy. Their representative has said that they were  under  the 
impression the annual inflation increases in the policys  sum assured  had been calculated  on the 
same basis as the initial cover  to be sustainable  for 61 years   but theyve recently  been informed 
that this isnt the case.
background
Mr and Mrs L started the whole of life policy in 1997 with cover of £800,000 to mitigate  a potential 
inheritance tax liability. The initial premium was set at a level projected to be sufficient  to sustain a 
term of 61 years, based on annual investment returns  of 8.25% being achieved.
As noted, Mr and Mrs L also chose the inflation option, which meant the policys sum assured would 
be increased  annually by 10%, or the level of Retail Price Index (RPI)   whichever  was greater  with 
an accompanying increase in the premiums.    
These increases have been applied  since 1997, with letters sent to Mr and Mrs L each year to confirm 
the changes. In 2018  Old Mutual  changed the format of these  letters, which drew  Mr and Mrs Ls 
attention to the fact that the sum assured was no longer on the same  sustainable basis as at the 
outset. By this point  the new premiums were expected to support the new sum assured  for only 
around five years. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative complained on their behalf  to Old Mutual. In brief,  he was of the view 
that thered been nothing to indicate that the annual inflation increases would be calculated on a 
different basis  to the original  premium and sum assured. So it was reasonable to assume  that the 
original sustainability  of 61 years had being maintained.  As this hadnt happened he felt Old Mutual 
should meet  the cost of reconstructing the policy  back  to its original level of sustainability.
Old Mutual said that it was made clear in the policy brochure  that the inflation  option increase would 
generally just be proportionate.  So, in short, a 10% increase in the sum assured  would  mean  a 10% 
increase in the premium   with no consideration given  to the original sustainability. And it said 
information provided  with each annual review letter had pointed out that if the policy  had been set up 
with a particular sustainability at the outset the policyholder should  consult with a financial adviser  to 
ensure the policy continued to meet their requirements. Old Mutual stressed that it had to adopt this 
proportionate increase approach as the default position for the inflation  option as it couldnt  be aware  
of how any particular policyholders ongoing needs  might have changed  and what sustainability  might 
be required as a result. ie Mr and Mrs L may not have still required  the policy  to last for so long.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative didnt accept this and referred  the matter to this service.  
Our adjudicator agreed with the representative and didnt think that it had been made  sufficiently clear  
that the inflation increase would  be calculated differently to the way in which  the policy had been set 
up at the outset. She felt that if Mr and Mrs L had been aware of the difference they wouldve  
requested quotations based on the original sustainability.  It would then have been up to them to 
choose whether they wished to pay any additional premium for the increased level of cover.
The adjudicator was of the opinion the complaint should  be upheld as Mr and Mrs L had been 
deprived of making this choice. She proposed that Old Mutual provided  Mr and Mrs L with this option 
backdated to the time of the first inflation increase, as well as on each subsequent increase.  And if 
they agreed to make  the back payments the policy should be amended  accordingly.
Old Mutual did not agree with the adjudicator  and reiterated  its view that the process  has been clear 
and it had administered the increases correctly. 
Ref: DRN06037125Mr and Mrs Ls representative also disagreed as he felt that any costs involved  in extending the 
policys sustainability should be met by Old Mutual. He also said: 
 The plan was commenced on a sustainable  basis in 1997. The appropriate premium was 
calculated at outset by the provider. The supporting  paperwork did not refer to any default basis 
for annual  increases  or suggest that the basis for calculating the increases might  be any different 
to the original  basis. 
 The Old Mutual website clearly states  We will calculate the extra premium for your increased 
cover in the same  way as we did for the rest of your cover.
As no agreement could  be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
While I understand  the argument thats being made by Mr and Mrs Ls representative, Ive not seen  
anything that leads me to conclude that Old Mutual misleadingly indicated that the inflation increases 
would be calculated on the same basis  in terms of sustainability  as the original premiums. 
I accept there doesnt appear to have been  absolute clarity on the matter. But the policy  documents  
explained that the inflation  increases would be proportionate. I note what the representative  has said 
about the information on Old Mutuals  website,  where it says it will calculate  the increased  cover in the 
same way as the rest of the cover. But that statement is immediately qualified by an explanation  that 
its referring to a situation where the original premium  was weighted, so the same criteria would be 
applied to any increase.
The situation  was also highlighted in the inserts Old Mutual says were  included with the annual review 
letters. These  said:
Your financial adviser may have originally guided  you on the selection  of benefits and premium 
payable, so that the required cover would remain in force  for a specified  period,  for example 20 years  
or, perhaps, your estimated  lifespan.  Please  note that the Standard Increase has not taken  any such 
arrangements into account  and is simply the minimum premium  we will accept  for the increase in 
benefits. If you would like to know the estimated contribution needed to enable  your benefits to 
continue for a pre-determined period,  please contact us.
The representative has said these inserts  were never received. But, on balance,  and given the length 
of time for which the policy  has been in operation  I think its unlikely  that the information  was never 
sent to Mr and Mrs L. Its common practice for this type of explanatory documentation  to accompany 
review letters. 
So, in summary, while I think Old Mutual maybe could  have done more to explain how the increases 
worked I dont  think I can fairly conclude that they should have done,  to such a degree that it has 
acted incorrectly. In any event,  the initial  and ongoing information aside, as early as 2010  the annual  
review letters were making clear that the cover  had become sustainable for only another  five years.  
So it seems  apparent that Mr and Mrs L had opportunity  to question  the position much earlier. 
In all the circumstances I dont think it would  reasonable  to require Old Mutual  to meet the cost of 
restructuring the policy to its original sustainability.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  Im currently dont think  the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN0603712