K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about the advice he was given by Bond Financial Limited  (BFL) to transfer  
his pension in 2015 and then invest in a fund that used currency hedging. He said he was 
not told before investing of this hedging and if he had been  told then he would  not have been 
invested. He believes this has contributed to the poor performance of his pension.
background
BFL did not uphold Mr Ys complaint. It said that the advantages and disadvantages of 
transferring the pension  were discussed and the overall cost of transferring to the new plan 
was lower that Mr Ys existing plan. It said the fund recommended  was within Mr Ys risk 
tolerance and was suitable for him. It said the currency hedging that took place within the 
fund had the effect of managing risk, not increasing it. 
Mr Y referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an adjudicator.  He did 
not think that the complaint should be upheld. He did not think the fund recommended was 
too risky for Mr Y. He said that the literature for the fund did explain it could use currency 
hedging and that this wasnt  unreasonable given  the nature  of the fund.  He did not believe 
that made the fund too risky for Mr Y. 
Mr Y did not agree  and said that the adviser  was not aware when  he gave the advice  that 
the fund used currency hedging and so neither did he. He also said that when  he met his 
adviser in 2016  he was told that BFL were  not recommending anyone invest  in the fund and 
those already invested should move. Mr Y also queries  whether  his policy  was adequately 
checked after he was advised to enter into it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr Ys complaint materially concerns the operation of the fund into which he invested,  
I have considered the transfer itself. It is noted  that the transfer was undertaken because  Mr 
Y did not wish to take such an active role as he had done in choosing investment funds. 
Therefore BFL suggested a discretionary managed fund. This could be achieved by 
transferring to a SIPP with another pension provider. This did not increase the cost or level 
of charges Mr Y was paying. Bearing in mind the reason for the transfer  and that it did not 
increase Mr Ys costs,  I dont believe the transfer  was unsuitable.
In terms of the fund itself,  the evidence is that the investment  risk was appropriate  for Mr Y. 
He has agreed that he is above average  risk and he was noted by BFL as having  a risk 
profile of 7 on a scale  of 1 to 10. The fund itself invests in bonds and equities, both in the 
UK and overseas. In my view it does not present more  risk than Mr Y wished to take.
In terms of the currency hedging that Mr Y is most concerned with, this is not necessarily  
high risk as Mr Y suggests, in fact it is often used  to reduce risk. The fund invests  in some 
overseas equities  which  brings  about currency exchange rate risk (this would be normal  in 
funds that invest  in overseas equities). Some funds, like the one in which Mr Y invested, use 
currency hedging to try and limit the effect  of currency  movements  and therefore  risk. It is a 
way of managing  risk in this situation, not increasing it. This is not currency trading for profit,  
which brings about a very different nature of risk.
Ref: DRN01492872Whilst I appreciate Mr Y thinks this brought  about risks which  he did not wish to take,  I do 
not believe it did. It is but one facet  of the way in which the fund is managed  and it did not 
make the fund recommendation unsuitable.  It was not a valid reason why the fund should 
not be selected. If properly researched and analysed at the time, I dont believe it would 
have affected  the decision  to invest. That is not affected by the advisers  knowledge of the 
hedging  if he did not know then it simply remains that the fund was appropriate  and 
suitable. 
If the recommendation was suitable  then the amount of checks  BFL undertook does not 
affect the outcome. It may well be that, later, BFL decided not to recommend  the fund. But, 
on review, any business  may decide that it does  not wish to recommend a particular course 
of action anymore.  This does not necessarily mean that a previous recommendation was 
inappropriate in some  way.    
    
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0149287