K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage in 1990. Its unclear exactly how or when they took out 
PPI  but Halifax and Mr and Mrs G think the PPI was taken out alongside  the mortgage. 
The PPI covered Mr G for accident, sickness and unemployment and protected  
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage monthly repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Mr and Mrs Gs main complaint is that they werent  made aware that the policy 
was optional. They also dont  feel they needed PPI as they had other means to rely on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr G was the person  covered by the PPI policy, but Mr and Mrs G had a joint mortgage  so 
Ive looked at both their circumstances when the insurance was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Halifax couldnt provide any documents from the time of sale showing how the PPI was sold. 
Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available.  
I wouldnt expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs G to have kept this. But Mr and Mrs G recalled a 
meeting with Halifax  so PPI mightve been discussed then.
I cant know exactly what, if anything, Halifax told Mr and Mrs G about PPI. It would be 
unreasonable to expect  Mr and Mrs G to recall exactly what was said at the time. This 
means that what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a number of years.  
Mr and Mrs Gs home  wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection than they had 
otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs G mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs G decided they wanted  to protect their home by 
taking out the PPI offered  and they chose to buy the policy.   
To be as fair as possible  to Mr and Mrs G, Halifax has looked at this complaint on the basis 
that it advised them to buy the PPI. If a financial business makes a recommendation about 
PPI it has to take reasonable steps  to make sure the cover  it recommends is suitable as well 
as giving important  policy information in a clear way. 
Ref: DRN06418872Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document  from when Mr and Mrs G 
took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use afterwards. I think its 
likely that in all main  respects the policy that they took out to cover Mr G wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr G wasnt eligible for PPI. And he was the main earner 
when Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  started.  So I can see why they mightve wanted cover in the 
event that he wasnt  able to work.
I think its most likely  that the policy protected Mr G for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
The policy wouldve also paid out if he had an accident or was too sick or disabled to work, 
on top of any work benefits, for up to 12 months per disability claim. This was longer than he 
couldve depended on his employer paying  him sick pay. And Mr G couldve made  repeated 
claims on the policy. So PPI provided long term cover whilst Mr and Mrs G had to pay their 
mortgage.    
Mr G had other benefits through work. But these paid out in different circumstances  to PPI. 
So, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G taking into account what  theyve told us 
about their situation  at the time.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Gs case. So, I dont  think  having  more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  I dont  know 
if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs G when they bought the policy.  But they 
havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. Looking  at their 
circumstances and the benefits PPI offered, I think Mr and Mrs G still wouldve decided to 
buy the policy even  if theyd been better informed as it looks  to me like the policy  offered 
them useful protection in their particular situation. And this seems to be borne out by the fact 
that Mr G told us he made a successful  claim on the policy. 
So I dont  find theyve  lost out financially as a result of anything  that Halifax did wrong.  This 
means that theres  nothing Halifax needs  to do to put things right. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  everything Mr and Mrs G told us, including  
what theyve said in response to the adjudicators assessment. But, on balance,  I dont find 
theres enough information for me to say that Halifax mis-sold them PPI. 
Ref: DRN06418873my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0641887