K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limiteds agents, who collected loan 
repayments from him, didnt correctly  apply what he paid,  towards  his accounts.
 
background
Mr B took home-collected loans with Provident. The normal process is for an agent  to attend 
Mr Bs home on a weekly basis to collect his repayments. He says that hes discovered that 
whilst he was handing over £100  cash each week, only £50 was being applied  to his loan 
account. 
Provident didnt  agree that anything had gone  wrong, so Mr B brought his complaint to this 
Service. One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs complaint and recommended that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Hes unhappy  with that assessment  and has asked for his complaint to 
be considered  by an ombudsman. So, Mr Bs complaint has come  to me for a final decision.  
Id like to take this opportunity to apologise  to Mr B for the length of time his case  has been 
with us. Im sorry it has taken so long for him to receive an answer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels  hes been treated unfairly by Provident.  He is sure that he paid £100  per week  to 
the agent who called at his home  for repayment  of his loans. He thinks  that the correct  
amounts werent  applied  to his accounts and he wants Provident to put that right. 
Where there is a dispute between the parties,  my role is to review the information and 
evidence which is available and to decide what is more likely to have happened. Mr B has 
brought this complaint, but he hasnt been  able to provide any evidence  to show  how much 
he paid and when.
Provident says that its agents always provide receipts to customers for their payments and it 
adds that it hasnt had any other similar complaints about the agents  involved. It has 
provided statements  of account for two loans taken  by Mr B. The first was for £2,500 on 14 
December 2015  (Ill call this Loan 1) and the second was for £2,000 on 19 July 2016  
(Loan 2). The weekly rate for Loan  1 was due to be £50 but on Loan 2 it was £40.
This meant that from July 2016 Mr B had two live loans to repay.  And it seems that the total 
repayable was due to be £90 per week.
From Mr Bs statements of accounts  for his two loans I can see that in a lot of weeks 
(especially in in the months following Loan  2) he did actually repay £100 to Provident  and 
this was recorded - but this sum was divided between the two loan accounts. 
For example, on 25 July 2016  Mr B paid £50 towards Loan 1 and £50 towards Loan 2 to 
Agent J. Generally,  this was the pattern with Agent J although I note that on 29 August Mr B 
only paid £10 on each  account; a week later he didnt  pay anything  on either. However,  in 
the following  week he paid £100 on each account   perhaps to make up for the earlier 
Ref: DRN05769362missed payments?  In March 2017 Agent J began to apply  £60 towards Loan 1 and £40 
towards Loan 2.
Agent J stopped  collecting  repayments from Mr B at the end of March  2017 at which point a 
new agent attended Mr Bs home. Over the following months Mr B made  payments to 
several different  agents. Generally speaking Mr B continued to repay a total of £100 per 
week and it was divided £60:£40 between the two loans.
In April 2017 Mr B made only one payment  of £100  and that was to Agent W. That was split 
between the two loans as before, but no other  payments were made that month.  
In May and June 2017 Agent M began to make the collections. Generally Mr B paid him 
£100 per week and this was applied to the two accounts; sometimes  £50:£50 but also at 
£60:£40.
In October  and November  2017 there  was a period of six weeks when  no payments were 
made on either account. The agents at that time were  Agents W and R. And generally 
speaking, the payments  became sporadic and for various amounts from that time. There 
were many weeks  when it seems Mr B didnt pay anything. At the start of February  2018  
Mr B paid Agent R £100 which was split £50:£50 between the two accounts but after that he 
tended to pay £50 per week applied to the accounts £25:£25. Mr Bs last payment on the two 
accounts occurred  on 5 March 2018  when he paid Agent R £50 which  was applied equally 
between the two loans.  From  that point Mr B made  no further repayments towards his loans. 
And in May he complained to Provident that he was unhappy with the number  of agents hed 
had, he hadnt  received  receipts and that hed made payments which  hadnt  been applied to 
his account. 
I accept its possible that Mr B made a payment to an agent  which  wasnt  applied to his 
accounts. But he hasnt  been specific about when that happened or how often. And he 
hasnt shown me any sort of documentary evidence to support what hes saying. I think that 
what is more likely  to have happened  here is that up until late 2017 Mr B usually handed  
some cash  - most often  - £100 which was divided between his two loan accounts. 
According to the statements of account, there were only four weeks when a total of just £50 
was paid by Mr B and there werent  any weeks  when a sum was applied to one loan account 
but not the other. I can see that after Agent J ceased  to call at Mr Bs home about 17 other  
agents called to collect Mr Bs repayments. This was a lot of different people, but I'm not 
persuaded that any or all of them received £100 from Mr B but only applied £50 to one of his 
accounts. In the last few months on the statements, from what I can see, nothing was 
applied to either account  suggesting that Mr B wasnt making any repayments whatsoever.
Taking everything together Im not persuaded I can safely conclude that Mr B has lost out as 
a result of something Providents agents have  done wrongly with the payments he made. I 
think its more likely  hes mis-remembered  what hes paid and to whom,  and has wrongly 
reached the conclusion that someone  has been pocketing the money,  as he puts it. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping  for, but I hope that my explanation  
above has helped  him understand my reasons for not upholding his complaint  about how his 
payments were applied  to his account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN05769363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0576936