K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that the vehicle  she acquired on finance supplied by First Response  
Finance Ltd wasnt  of satisfactory quality. She wants a refund of all payments  she made.
background
Miss A tells us she acquired the vehicle in March 2018 from a dealer  Ill refer to as C. She 
says that in June  2018  she took the vehicle to a garage Ill refer to as IB to have a tow bar 
fitted. Miss A states that upon examining  the vehicle the mechanic pointed  out that itd 
sustained serious  accident  damage. She further  complains that the vehicle experienced 
problems with the clutch and the coil shortly  after she acquired it. Miss A says she wasnt 
told about the accident damage when she obtained the vehicle and doesnt think it was of 
satisfactory quality when supplied to her.
FRF told us that following  Miss As complaint itd arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by 
independent examiners, a company Ill refer to as S. And S had reported the vehicle to be 
structurally sound. It further stated that as Miss A hadnt made  any payments since  July 
2018 the agreement had been terminated and the vehicle had been  repossessed.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said that S had 
confirmed that whilst there was evidence of previous accident damage the vehicle was 
structurally sound. And that the clutch was being repaired under warranty  and would in any 
event be considered a wear and tear item.
Miss A didnt agree with this outcome  and said she thought the vehicle was a risk to her and 
her family. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked 
to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Miss A experienced problems  with this vehicle. And I understand shed be 
concerned to discover that itd incurred  damage about which shed been previously unaware.
Miss As hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. FRF supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory quality is defined  as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for issues  which can 
include, but are not limited to, the age of the goods and previous use.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive seen a report  from S, an independent  vehicle examiner. This report  identified damage  to 
the vehicle. But the engineer stated:
Ref: DRN02843632Having examined and carried  out basic alignment checks  of the vehicle in question,  the 
engineer is satisfied there is no inherent accident related damage  present,  that renders the 
vehicle dangerous or unroadworthy, either now or at the time of purchase. And he 
continued:
To simplify vehicle  undoubtedly had previous repairs undertaken prior to the date of 
purchase which does  not meet the current industry standard of BSI 125. However there  was 
no evidence noted  at the time of inspection  to suggest that the structural integrity of the 
vehicle had been compromised and therefore the vehicle would have been  considered  road 
legal and fit for its intended  purpose of daily use at the point of sale
Ive also seen the MOT  history of the vehicle. And in February  2018 the vehicle passed an 
MOT test with advisories  noted in relation to the front bumpers  and wing. Advisory  notes are 
given in relation  to issues which will eventually need fixing  - but arent reasons to fail the 
MOT. So this information wouldve been  available to Miss A at the time the vehicle was 
supplied.
This vehicle  was around seven years old and according to the MOT  odometer  reading had 
covered 63,894 miles at the time of that test. I wouldnt expect a vehicle of this age and 
mileage to be in the same  condition as a newer vehicle. And bodywork damage wouldnt be 
considered unusual. 
Whilst I understand Miss As concern, the independent  inspection  coupled with the MOT 
certificate show that on a balance of probabilities the vehicle conformed to contract at the 
time of supply and was of satisfactory quality.
The vehicle was also checked to see if it was subject to any notifications regarding previous  
damage. And it wasnt recorded as high risk or in Category C or D write offs. So there would 
be no requirement to notify  Miss A separately  about any accident  damage.
The reported  issue with the clutch would usually be considered to be a wear and tear issue 
and the vehicle mileage recorded  by S at the time of the inspection was 66,470. This shows 
the vehicle probably travelled 2,000 or so miles  after being  supplied to Miss A. It wouldnt be 
unusual for a vehicle  of this mileage to start exhibiting clutch  issues,  so I dont consider this 
aspect means the vehicle  wasnt of satisfactory quality. I also understand that this issue may 
have been covered under warranty had the vehicle not been later repossessed.
Whilst Miss As complaint doesnt  relate directly to the repossession, for completeness I 
need to mention this. FRF state  that Miss A didnt make any payments after July 2018.
So it took steps to terminate the agreement and repossess  the vehicle. I understand the 
vehicle was recovered in January 2019.
Whilst I dont need  to make any finding  of fact in relation to the repossession in order  to 
reach my decision, I note that the terms and conditions of the agreement provide for such 
action in the event of payments not being  maintained.
In summary,  on the basis of the information  with which Ive been supplied  it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to say this vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  Im aware my 
decision will come as a disappointment to Miss A but Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN02843633my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0284363