K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  is that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not to enough to help when they fell 
victim to an authorised  push payment  scam.  
background
On 15 November 2018 Mrs C received  a phone call from who she thought  was Her 
Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) about  an ongoing fraud investigation  into her 
taxes. She was told to make an outstanding payment of £3,266 immediately or she would 
face arrest. As the caller  had personal  information about her and appeared to be calling from 
an HMRC number, Mrs C made the payment online via bank transfer.  
After some back  and forth, Mrs C later called HMRC directly  to query the payment.  She was 
told that they would never  request a payment in such a way and that from what they could  
see there was no open investigation into her taxes.  They advised  her to stop contact with the 
scammers and contact Action Fraud.
Mrs C contacted HSBC  just over an hour after making the payment. They  contacted the 
beneficiary bank  immediately to request a return of the £3,266. They received a response a 
few days later informing them that £3.72  remained and this was returned  to Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with this as they had chased both HSBC  and the beneficiary 
bank a number  of times in the days following the scam and had been assured by the 
beneficiary bank  that their funds would be returned.  They felt that HSBCs  lack of urgency 
had led to their funds not being recovered.   So they referred their complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator looked into their complaint and felt that HSBC had acted reasonably when it 
processed the payment without any further checks. And that HSBC  had acted  quickly  to try 
and recover their funds. Mr and Mrs C disagreed.  In essence they felt that the scam was 
very sophisticated and that theyd been  taken advantage of as English  wasnt their first 
language. They pointed  out that they had contacted  HSBC immediately after they realised it 
was a scam  and hadnt acted negligently in making the payment, so felt HSBC  should do 
more to help them. 
As an informal agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to 
review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN02470952But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr and Mrs C when they made the payment  of £3,266, or whether  it should have done more 
than it did.
Both Mr and Mrs C and HSBC agree that Mrs C authorised the payment of £3,266 herself. 
This means  that HSBC had an obligation to carry out that instruction. But as explained 
above, there are some situations in which  it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character  
for Mr and Mrs C.
To determine this, Ive looked at the statements for their account in the months leading  up to 
the scam  payment, to get an idea of their general  account usage at the time. I can see that 
they did regularly  make online transfers,  so I dont think the payment type was particularly 
unusual for them. But the amount in question was higher than they would normally  transfer. 
Having said this, I dont  think this particular increase alone is enough to say that HSBC 
Ref: DRN02470953should have treated the transfer  as suspicious and asked additional questions before 
releasing the payment. On balance, having considered Mr and Mrs Cs account activity in 
general, I dont think HSBC failed in its obligations when it didnt treat the transfer as 
suspicious. So, I think it acted reasonably  when  it processed the payment without further  
checks. 
Mr and Mrs C have made the point that they should be considered  vulnerable, as English is 
not their first language and the scammers used  this to their advantage. I can understand 
their point of view. But in the circumstances, I dont think that HSBC could have been aware 
that Mr and Mrs C were  at risk of financial  harm  when making the payment of £3,266 and 
that any language issues were affecting  this. In this particular  case,  I dont think that HSBC  
could have been expected to do more to help in the circumstances. 
Mrs C contacted HSBC  just over an hour after authorising the transfer of £3,266.  HSBC  has 
shown that it tried to telephone the beneficiary  bank immediately after the call with Mrs C 
ended. Unfortunately,  they were unable  to get through,  so sent an e-mail to the beneficiary 
bank instead,  requesting  a return of the funds. The beneficiary bank has confirmed that this 
would have been the correct process for HSBC to follow, and I can see that the e-mail 
address HSBC used  was an active  one. It should be noted  that in these cases,  recovery of 
funds is on a best-endeavours basis, meaning theres no guarantee that the funds will be 
recovered. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank  responded  on 19 November to say that only 
£3.72 of Mr and Mrs Cs funds remained at that time. 
Mr and Mrs C have clearly put a lot of time and energy  into trying to secure  a return of their 
funds, and theyve  been the victim of a cruel scam. Its my role to solely investigate the 
actions of HSBC  during  and after the scam payment. Having done so, I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to process  the payment without any additional checks and I think  that 
once they were made aware of the scam, they acted quickly  to request a return of the funds. 
Unfortunately, by the time the beneficiary bank  responded,  there  was only £3.72  remaining. 
In conclusion, I think HSBC has acted reasonably both during and after the scam payment 
and I dont think it needs to provide a refund to Mr and Mrs C. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0247095