K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S complains Cigna  Insurance Services (Europe) Limited (Cigna)  mis-sold her an 
insurance policy. 
Background
Cigna contacted Mrs S by telephone  in 2012  and she was sold a motoring and travel 
accident plan.  
In 2018, Mrs S tried to make a claim under the policy after she had an accident. But the 
insurer said the circumstances  of the accident werent covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Unhappy, Mrs S complained to Cigna that the policy had been mis-sold to her. 
Cigna said it no longer had a copy of the sales call but that its sales person would have  
followed a carefully  scripted call guide,  and Mrs S would have been sent a policy booklet 
outlining what was covered in 2012 and every year afterwards at renewal. So, Cigna said it 
didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. 
Mrs S then complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but he didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs S brought a separate complaint to us about the insurers decision to refuse to consider 
her claim under  the policy. That issue has been  considered by our service under a different 
complaint reference  number. In this decision, Im only addressing  the sale of the policy  by 
Cigna.  
I understand Mrs S bought the policy after receiving a telephone  call about it, and she didnt 
seek out the cover herself. 
Due to the passage of time, Cigna no longer has a copy of the sales call. I understand Mrs S 
feels strongly that Cigna  should keep these calls for as long as a policy continues to renew,  
and says Cigna cant now provide  key evidence to prove what happened. 
It would, of course, be more helpful if I had a copy of the call so I could listen to exactly what 
Mrs S was told at the time. But there isnt any requirement for Cigna to have kept a copy of 
the sales call. Even  if I were to think it would have been good business practice for Cigna to 
still have a copy of the call given the timeframes involved, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to conclude  the policy was mis-sold purely  because the call cant now be produced. 
So, in the absence of the sales  call, Ive weighed up the evidence  which  I do have  available  
to me to decide  whether  or not I think its likely  this policy was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN04986612Cigna recommended the policy to Mrs S so Im satisfied this was an advised  sale. This 
means Cigna  needed  to give information  about the policy to Mrs S in a way that was clear,  
fair and not misleading (including  highlighting certain key information) and it also needed to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for Mrs Ss needs.
Mrs S says she remembers the sales discussion in detail and was told the policy would 
provide cover for any accident  outside  of the home.  She has specifically referenced 
circumstances such as her family  going  to school on a bicycle and playing rugby. I want to 
make it clear  that I dont  in any way doubt Mrs Ss recollections of what  was said.  
But I also need to consider the call guide which Cigna has provided, which is dated as 
having been in use at the time of the sale. I have  no reason to think  the sales  agent didnt 
follow the content of the call guide. 
The call guide refers  to the policy as providing  protection if the policyholder  is injured in an 
accident while travelling . I can appreciate  why Mrs S may have understood this to mean  she 
would be covered for any accident she had while she was away  from her home. 
But the call guide  goes on to define  what is meant  by travelling and to outline  some of the 
main policy exclusions.  The guide also says if the customer mentions any activity that is 
excluded then you must advise that this isnt covered .
No insurance policy  covers all situations  a policy will always  contain  limitations  and 
exclusions on what circumstances are covered, in line with the level of risk which the insurer 
is willing to accept. I dont  think it would be practical  for a sales  advisor to outline  every 
scenario which  would or wouldnt be covered under a policy  at the point of sale,  particularly 
when selling  a policy like this one where the circumstances of any accident  which  might 
happen in the future  could vary so significantly.   
I have no doubt  Mrs S genuinely believed the policy would cover her for the accident  she 
had in 2018. But, based on the evidence Ive seen,  I dont think  Cigna gave  Mrs S incorrect  
or misleading information about the policy and I dont think the policy was unsuitable for her. 
The policy could have  provided a benefit  to Mrs S if shed suffered an accident  which  was 
covered by the policy while it was in force. So I wont be asking Cigna to refund any 
premiums to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0498661