K822xcomplaint
Mr B says Markerstudy Insurance  Company Limited delayed  unreasonably in settling a claim 
he made on his motor insurance  policy.
background 
On 9 October 2018 Mr B came home from a few days away  with a friend (Mr H) to find his 
car missing. He reported the theft to Markerstudy  and to the police. Markerstudy  contacted 
the police  the next day and asked Mr B for documents. An investigator  from firm B 
interviewed him and sent a report to Markerstudy on 30 October 2018. Around the same 
time, Markerstudy found that the car key Mr B had sent in needed further  checks. It asked 
for a copy  of his licence  shortly after that. The licence check  was done two weeks after Mr B 
sent in a copy on 22 November 2018. 
On 29 January 2019, Markerstudy got the full key report. Three weeks later,  it first applied  
for a written  police report. On the same date it asked  firm B to interview Mr B's friend,  Mr H. 
It got his statement at the end of March 2019. Markerstudy had sent the wrong fee to the 
police, so it had to resubmit it a month after its first request.  Mr B sent a copy of the police 
report to Markerstudy in April 2019,  but it was heavily redacted.  Markerstudy didnt  get the 
report it needed until 20 May 2019. The claim was authorised on 7 June 2019.
Meanwhile, Mr B had already complained to Markerstudy about the delay in settling the 
claim by February 2019. It said its enquiries were ongoing. But it offered Mr B £100 for the 
delay in requesting the police report.
 
In May 2019, one of our investigators  reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He thought  Markerstudy 
had acted reasonably. He said it had shown it was still considering his claim and had 
enquiries to complete. He said although  it hadnt  followed up on the initial contact it made 
with the police, that didnt  delay the claim. And it had offered Mr B compensation.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding the complaint as follows:
Theft claims have to be fully assessed. And when a police report  is needed, there are often 
delays in getting it. Insurers cant control the time it takes the police to respond.  In this case, 
enquiries about the car key also had to be made.  It wasnt until the end of January 2019 that 
Markerstudy got the final key report. I think the time that passed until then was fair enough. 
But the claim wasnt paid until June 2019,  so I think the issue  is whether  the delay over the 
next few months  was reasonable or not. 
Initially, Markerstudy contacted the police promptly, by calling and emailing them as soon as 
the claim was made. But it isnt clear why the matter wasnt  followed up within  a reasonable 
time. It seems the police had refused to provide any details verbally. And they didnt reply to 
Markerstudys email. Firm Bs report at the end of October 2018 mentioned a police report, 
so I think that should have  served  as a reminder. Yet it wasnt until the file was reviewed in 
mid-February 2019 that the lack of a written report was noted. Even then, as Markerstudy 
sent the wrong fee, a valid report request was delayed by a further month.  
Markerstudy says it didnt think about  asking firm B to interview Mr H until mid-February  
2019 either, despite knowing  that Mr H was a key witness from the start. His account could 
Ref: DRN01963752have provided  details that affected the outcome  of the claim. Due to Markerstudys delay in 
acting, his statement  wasnt seen  until the end of March  2019.
In my opinion, Markerstudy  should  have sought  a written police report long before it did. It 
says it didnt chase  the report as the police replied within six weeks.  So in this case  I cant 
say the delay in moving  the claim on was caused by the police. And it should have realised 
Mr H should be interviewed  much earlier. I think its fair to say that these basic enquiries 
could reasonably have been  started  by the end of 2018. A decision could then have been 
made about the claim earlier   perhaps within a month or so after the key report  arrived.  So I 
think there was an undue delay of around three months. 
Markerstudy agreed in February 2019  that there had been a delay in applying  for the police 
report. Further delays  followed, and I dont  think £100 is enough to cover the overall delay 
Mr B faced.  He had to wait for eight  months  for the claim to be settled. For most of the time I 
think Markerstudy was carrying out necessary work. But I think  he was inconvenienced for 
much longer  than was reasonable.  In my view,  Markerstudy should pay Mr B a further £400 
compensation, making £500 in total.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Markerstudy said it had nothing  to 
add. Mr B said hed provide evidence for me to consider  relating  to the losses  he faced due 
to not having the use of his car, but he didnt  do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Markerstudy didnt comment,  and Mr B 
didnt send us anything further,  I dont  think I should depart from my provisional findings. The 
general inconvenience and frustration Mr B faced is reflected in the extra £400 I proposed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr B a further £400 compensation  (so £500 in total)  for distress  and 
inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0196375