K822xComplaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plcs IT problems  had an impact on his ability to access and 
use his current and savings accounts.  Hes also unhappy with the way in which  TSB handled 
his complaint. 
Background
Mr M had two accounts with TSB  a current account and an online only savings account. 
In April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its IT system. Mr M has outlined  the various 
issues this caused,  which included:
Inability to login to the online banking  services, or inability to use online banking 
features once logged in, including  not being able to make  payments or see his 
accounts; 
Causing a delay  in the payment to the passport office which meant he had to contact 
them repeatedly.  He had to drive  to the Post Office and use the more  expensive over 
the counter service  to ensure the passport would arrive  in time for his best friends 
wedding;  
Having to borrow money from friends for petrol, living expenses and to attend  a stag 
party;
Delays of a few days  in paying his rent causing him to feel his reputation as a tenant 
was damaged;
Payments in and out of the account appearing late and for the wrong  dates, and one 
unrecognised payment  of around £77;
Difficulties in communication with TSB including: 
-needing to contact to TSB on numerous  occasions in an attempt to resolve  
matters; 
-lack of response from TSB to his communication including  letters  and messages 
on social media;
-lots of time spent  on hold when trying to call TSB; 
-customer service  representatives being unhelpful and on one occasion cutting 
him off; and 
Receiving a text to say he was overdrawn when this was not the case  which caused 
distress as he was worried his data had been  compromised due to getting someone 
elses notification;
TSB awarded Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience  hed suffered  due to the IT 
problems, and a payment  of £62.75 for the financial losses  which  included  call costs, and 
post office costs.  They  also refunded the disputed transaction of around  £77. 
Mr M felt the offer of compensation was insufficient and believed TSB should pay him 
around £3,300  for the distress and inconvenience  he was caused. He detailed a list of 
charges he wanted  TSB to pay based on their charging system with their customers, but 
they said they wouldnt be paying these  as there  was no agreement in place to do so. 
As Mr M was unhappy, he brought  the complaint to our service.  Having  done  so, our 
investigator recommended TSB pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience  he 
experienced and issue  a letter of apology for the way theyd handled his concerns.  But Mr M 
didnt agree with this recommendation,  so the complaint has come  to me to make a decision.  
Ref: DRN00136182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out -
and for much the same reasons. 
It is not in dispute  that Mr M was impacted by the IT problems TSB was experiencing. 
So, what  I need to determine is what the impact was on Mr M, and what  it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask TSB to do to put things  rights.  
Mr M highlighted financial losses including having  to pay extra  to go to the post office to 
organise his passport. TSB refunded him in line with the costs he said he incurred,  so I think  
theyve responded  to Mr Ms financial losses appropriately. They also refunded a payment of 
around £77 that he didnt  think hed made,  so I think Mr M has been properly reimbursed for 
the financial losses he suffered. 
Ive also considered the non-financial losses   that is the distress and inconvenience TSBs 
IT problems  caused Mr M. Mr M wrote  to TSB on numerous occasions  in order to try and get 
matters resolved over several months. In reviewing this correspondence and the sequence 
of events, it is clear that Mr M was extremely worried about the problems he was facing and 
TSBs lack of response.  I appreciate Mr M was also worried that his data may have been 
compromised as he received an incorrect text message. However, there has been no 
indication that this was the case so whilst Ive taken the distress caused into account, there 
is nothing further  that needs to be done  to rectify  a data breach.  
There were knock-on problems caused by his lack of access to banking.  Mr M did make it to 
the wedding and his landlord  was understanding, but I imagine the delays in being able to 
pay his rent and the risk of missing a close friends wedding  caused Mr M a great  deal of 
distress. He had to borrow  money  which can cause people to feel embarrassed, but it did 
mean he was able to get to work, attend  the stag do and ensure there were no issues with 
the day to day costs of living. I empathise  with the position Mr M found  himself in, but I agree 
with our investigator in that I feel £500 reflects the distress and inconvenience  caused by 
TSB. 
Mr M would like TSB to pay him £3,300  for the distress and inconvenience  he was caused. 
He provided a breakdown of these and they appear  to include fines and charges   but its 
not for our service to punish or fine TSB for what  happened.  So, Ive considered the impact 
on Mr M, and I agree  that £500 and a letter of apology to be a fair and reasonable outcome 
in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN00136183my final decision 
My final decision is TSB must:
award £500 in total for the trouble and upset Mr M experienced. They are entitled to 
deduct anything  already paid to Mr M, excluding the refunded £77 disputed 
transaction payment.
provide a letter of apology  for how they handled his concerns if it hasnt done  so 
already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0013618