K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society said it would not provide him with a 
mortgage after providing him with a positive decision in principle (DIP).
background
Nationwide issued a DIP on 27 June 2018. Mr B found a property he wanted to buy and 
went back to Nationwide.  It then told it would not be able to lend to him. It has offered to pay 
him £75 for poor communication.
The investigator did not recommend it do anything more. She said that:
-The DIP was not an offer of a mortgage and said that any application  would be 
subject to further checks.
-The DIP had been  issued based on a mortgage of £80,000  and a deposit of £50,000 
giving a loan to value ratio of 61 per cent.
-Mr B had found a property worth £90,000  and was going to put down a deposit of 
£10,000. This gave  a higher loan to value ratio  of 89 per cent  and this contributed  
to the change in the decision of Nationwide.
-She was satisfied that it had carried out appropriate credit checks  and had not acted 
unfairly.
-The offer of compensation showed  that Nationwide accepted it could have given a 
better explanation  of what happened when he complained.
Mr B did not agree.  He had asked Nationwide  for copies of transcripts of calls he had with it 
and had not received them. He does not think we have all the information we need  to decide 
on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says he has made a formal request to Nationwide  for the personal  information it holds 
about him. Thats made under a subject access request. And I know  the investigator has told 
him that if he is not satisfied with the response  then he would need to contact the Information 
Commissioners Office.  I consider though I have sufficient information  to decide on his 
complaint. 
I understand from the comments made  by Mr B and his representative how frustrated and 
disappointed he is by what  has happened.  He had a positive meeting with a representative 
of Nationwide  on 27 June  2018. And he says that he left his existing  rented accommodation 
expecting to be able to buy his own property. He cannot understand what  had changed in 
the period to 6 August 2018 when he was then told that a new DIP was not agreed. He also 
was very unhappy with the tone of Nationwides response and that it considered him to be a 
liability.
The investigator has already set out that the details of his application  had changed by 
August 2018.  Hed made an offer on a property he wanted to buy and was going  to put down 
a lower deposit. He didnt  anticipate that this would be an issue   as the amount he was 
borrowing was the same. But Nationwide  has said that the change  in the loan to value ratio 
was an important one. And that it needed as a result to apply for a new DIP. It says in its 
Ref: DRN04987792final response letter that it tried different options  which were  unsuccessful and that it had 
also appealed  the outcome to its underwriters.
Nationwide is entitled to set its own lending criteria.  I dont consider its made  a mistake in 
applying them here. And it reasonably needed to check Mr Bs credit  record when he applied 
for a DIP.
Nationwide accepted that its first letter to him about what happened  was not heartfelt and 
that it had not given  him enough of an explanation.  Thats why it offered him compensation 
of £75. I know Mr B does not think this is sufficient and really only wanted to have the 
mortgage he expected. But Im afraid I think that this compensation is a reasonable 
response to the poor communication. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
Nationwide Building  Society has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Nationwide 
Building Society should pay Mr B £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0498779