K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr M says HFC Bank Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The credit card application Mr M wouldve completed provided  a yes and a no box which  
Mr M had to tick to show if he wanted PPI. So I think HFC Bank  made it clear that Mr M 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant remember this.
HFC Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible  the information HFC Bank gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means HFC Bank doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But HFC Bank will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
HFC Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  HFC Bank  didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, HFC Bank  has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share  that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about being able to 
rely on his wife to keep  with repayments  if he couldnt work. But these points dont change 
my decision.  The help of a family member isnt guaranteed,  as it would depend on their 
circumstances  which could change over time. Mr M wouldve been aware of that support at 
the time he chose to take the PPI. 
Ref: DRN06393972what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  already done so, HFC Bank has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. HFC Bank should also pay back to 
Mr M any extra interest he paid because of that.
HFC Bank should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr M the difference  
between what Mr M owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HFC Bank should also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HFC Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But, if it hasnt already done so, HFC Bank Limited  does have to pay back  to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0639397