K820x#14complaint
Mr G, Mr F and Ms F as Trustees  of the Trust complains  that Standard Life Investments  
(Mutual Funds) Limited didnt give it notice of the change  to its service which meant  that 
funds it held were sold by Standard Life and the Trust incurred a Capital Gains  Tax (CGT) 
charge.
background
In November 2013 Standard Life decided to remove all externally managed funds from its 
available product range and no longer provide an open platform  for investors  from 
14 February 2014 onwards. Standard Life said it wrote  to all of the investors that were 
affected by this change and also any appointed IFAs. It provided  four options but if no 
response was received  the affected  funds would be placed in the equivalent fund in its own 
fund range.
Standard Life didnt receive anything  from Mr G or anyone else on behalf  of the Trust so it 
sold 17 holdings on 18 March 2014 and then on 21 March 2014  reinvested in 17 Standard  
Life managed funds.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I didnt uphold the complaint and in short  made the following points:
I didnt think it was in issue  that Standard Life had undertaken a contact exercise  with 
regard to customers affected by the change it was making.
It isnt surprising it doesnt have copies of the actual letters sent given  it contacted 
around 62,000  customers.
I was minded to accept that spreadsheet it has provided an extract  from showing Mr 
Gs details was populated from the original mail merge spreadsheet  that had details 
of customers to be contacted so it is likely  that Mr G was included in the original mail 
merge and the letter was sent.
There were  also contract notes created for the switch of funds and its unlikely these 
wouldnt have been sent.
There were  also six monthly statements including one dated  April 2014 showing the 
switch of funds.
The contract notes  and April 2014  statement wouldve been received after the 
switches had taken  place so the CGT  charge incurred but their importance is that 
these were sent and there is no record they were received  which  suggests  a problem 
at Mr Gs end.
Mr G wasnt  in control of the trust file at the time as it was being dealt with by a 
colleague.
Standard Life also contacted the Trusts agent  by emailing three  individuals  although  
there isnt evidence the emails were considered.
I dont think Standard Life did anything wrong in switching funds when it didnt have 
instruction from the Trust given  it was no longer going to provide externally managed 
funds after 14 February 2014 and there was no option that allowed it to do nothing.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Mr G made  the following comments in 
response:
Ref: DRN02544102As the Trustees complaint was originally upheld  Standard Life are required to 
produce new or further evidence  to allow the ombudsman to over-rule the original 
decision and it hasnt  done so.
Standard Life has repeated the same averments  about having  sent the letter on a 
balance of probabilities but is unable to provide a copy of the letter or the original 
spreadsheet. He doesnt see how the ombudsman can over-rule the earlier  decision 
when no new evidence  has been produced.
Standard Life didnt have the authority to switch funds without express approval from 
the Trustees. It was its choice  to remove all externally managed  funds from its 
available product range and having done so it was under an obligation to obtain  the 
consent of the customer to switch funds.
The terms of the ombudsman last paragraph shows a clear lack of understanding of 
contractual law. It isnt acceptable to say that Standard Life had decided  to switch  
funds and that there wasnt  an option  to do nothing. Having no authority from the 
customer it shouldve done nothing.
It was acting contrary to law in going ahead with the switch  without the consent  of the 
customer and the ombudsman accepts that switching the funds when no response 
was received would be without authority.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G argues that as Standard Life hasnt provided any new evidence  there is no basis  for 
overturning the original decision made  by the adjudicator.  But I am not bound by the opinion  
of an adjudicator. When a complaint is referred to an ombudsman a complete review of the 
complaint is made. And whether or not new evidence is presented I can come to a decision 
that differs from that of the adjudicator, as I have done in this complaint.
As Mr G points  out, it was Standard Lifes choice to stop providing externally managed 
funds. But this was a reasonable commercial decision for it to take and the terms and 
conditions include a clause that gave it discretion to vary the investments available  through 
it, including  requiring an investment no longer be held.
Having taken that decision it needed  to inform its customers. I think it is more  likely than not 
it did write to Mr G in his capacity as Trustee  along  with other customers  affected  by its 
decision and give notice  that externally managed  funds were no longer  going to be available 
through Standard Life and explain what the options were. In the case of the Trust it also 
emailed the registered adviser for the Trust.
The Trust didnt have  the option  of remaining in the funds and Standard  Life couldnt do 
nothing, as Mr G has suggested, because there wouldve been no access  to the funds 
through it after February 2014. In the circumstances I dont think  it did anything wrong in 
moving the Trust out of those funds at the point those funds were no longer going to be 
available through it.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN02544103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G, Mr F and Ms 
F as Trustees to accept  or reject  my decision before 15 December 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02544104COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G, Mr F and Ms F as trustees of the Trust complains that Standard Life Investments (Mutual 
Funds) Limited didnt give it notice of the change to its service which  meant that funds it held were  
sold by Standard  Life and the Trust incurred  a Capital Gains Tax (CGT) charge.
background
In November 2013 Standard  Life decided  to remove  all externally managed funds from its available  
product range and no longer  provide an open platform for investors  from 14 February 2014 onwards. 
Standard Life said it wrote to all of the investors that were affected by this change and also any 
appointed IFAs. It provided four options but if no response  was received the affected funds would be 
placed in the equivalent  fund in its own fund range.
Standard Life didnt receive anything from Mr G or anyone else on behalf  of the Trust so it sold 17 
holdings on 18 March 2014 and then on 21 March 2014 reinvested  in 17 alternative Standard Life 
managed funds. 
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and thought it should  be upheld.  She said Standard 
Life was entitled to change  the service it provided  as long as it gave notice.  She referred to its terms 
and conditions in relation to giving notices which  stated that proof of service  of a pre-paid letter is 
shown by the envelope being properly  addressed, stamped  and posted.   The adjudicator said that 
Standard Life hadnt been able to prove service  of the notice  in line with its terms and conditions  
Standard Life didnt agree  with the adjudicator. In short it made the following points:
Its position  is broadly as set out in its original email.
Its records are reflective of the fact that Mr Gs details were  included in the mailing in question  
and that the associated letter  was sent to him as it was to 62,000 other customers.
The fact it cannot provide a copy of the specific letter sent to him doesnt justify upholding  his 
complaint.
In all practical senses it has provided  a copy of the letter  sent to Mr G as the pro-forma letter it 
has provided  is an exact  copy of the letter the client was sent which was then populated with 
his address through Excel Mail-Merge.
It has a record of his details on a spreadsheet derived from the original Mail Merge 
spreadsheet.
It refutes any suggestion  that keeping a record of the letters sent to clients in the way that it 
has rather  than copies of each individual letter sent to each client means it has failed  in its 
record keeping duties.
It has a record it contacted Mr Gs registered  agent by emailing three individuals at the firm.
The spreadsheet  showing this is only held to show the agents  that were  contacted and there 
isnt any suggestion it relates  to anything else. The document  also contains read receipts to 
show who opened  the email and it is unsure why there is any question over the accuracy of 
this document.
Whilst it is possible  Mr G didnt get the original letter it isnt believable that he didnt get any of 
the large amount of other correspondence sent to him at the address provided for his account  
which wouldve  brought the transactions in question to his attention.
If he didnt get any of the correspondence  - which included 34 contract notes in 2014 and bi-
annual statements for the proceeding four years  a more believable conclusion is that the 
correspondence wasnt forwarded to him when it was received at the address  he provided, 
which it understands is a business address.
It has gone through its records again and has located the statement sent to Mr G immediately  
following the transactions in question which is enclosed. This shows the trust is no longer 
invested in any externally managed funds and shows significant  activity on the account.
Ref: DRN02544105The dividend  payments werent in relation to any externally managed funds  and reflect  a 
marked increased shareholding in the internally  managed  funds the client continued to hold 
shares in.
The account is managed  by Mr G as a trustee and he has a duty as such  to manage the trust 
and if he didnt get any of the documents which wouldve  brought the matter to his attention it 
raises a question as to how he discharged his duty as a trustee  if he didnt receive  account  
documentation for nearly half a decade.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
There is no issue  about  Standard  Life being entitled  to change the service  it provided  so that it no 
longer held non Standard Life funds on its SIGMA  platform. The main issue in this complaint is 
whether it gave the appropriate notice to the Trust about the change.
I think  this largely  comes  down to whether or not it actually sent a properly addressed letter  to Mr G 
about the change. If it did then I think it had done what it needed to do even if the letter  wasnt 
received by Mr G.
I have considered the terms and conditions  and in particular what these require in terms of notice.  
The relevant clause requires  Standard Life to give notice either by pre-paid letter or email.  The terms 
go on to state that service will be deemed to be delivered five business days  after posting and that in 
proving such  service it shall be sufficient to prove that such envelope was properly addressed, 
stamped and posted
Standard Life dont have  a copy  of the letter sent to Mr G, it has only been able to provide the pro-
forma template sent to all customers affected.  And the evidence it has provided falls short  of proving 
that the envelope was properly addressed, stamped  and posted. 
But I am not deciding whether Standard Life can establish deemed service  under  its terms and 
conditions. What  I have to decide is if it is more  likely than not that notice was given, which isnt the 
same thing.
I dont think that it is in issue  that Standard Life did undertake a contact exercise,  regarding the 
change it was making, to customers who were affected  by the change. And as the Trust  account  
included funds that were affected by the change it is more  likely than not it was identified  as one of 
the customers  that needed to be contacted.
Standard Life has explained that it doesnt have copies  of the individual letters sent to customers. It 
has said the letters were  created using excel mail merge. Given it has said there were 62,000 
customers affected by the change it isnt particularly  surprising it didnt keep a copy of each letter that 
was sent.
It also doesnt have the original mail merge spreadsheet with the details of those  that were contacted.  
What it has provided  is an extract from another spreadsheet showing  Mr Gs details, which  it says 
was derived from the original  mail merge spreadsheet.
I note the extract has a date in September 2014  on it  so a date past the date the switch of 
investments took place.  But I dont think the date is particularly  significant, as this isnt the original 
mail merge spreadsheet but a different spreadsheet that Standard Life says was populated with 
information from the original spreadsheet. There is no reason to think it was created before  the switch  
took place so no reason  to expect that any date on the spreadsheet should  pre-date the switch. 
The important question is whether the extract does show information  that was in the original mail 
merge spreadsheet. Standard Life has said that it does and that internally the spreadsheet is headed  
Ref: DRN02544106SIGMA Clients.  I acknowledge this isnt the strongest of evidence but Im not persuaded  that 
Standard Life has provided misleading information about this. Im minded to accept what  it has said 
about the extract showing  details that were  in the original mail merge spreadsheet. So I think  it is 
more likely  than not that Mr G was included in the original mail merge exercise and the letter  was 
sent.
Standard Life has also pointed to other evidence  that wouldve shown the switch of funds. In particular  
the contract notes that were  produced as a result  of the switch  a total of 34. Each contract note has 
Mr Gs details on but Standard  Life is unable  to say whether the contract notes were  sent collectively  
or individually.
Given the sales all took place on 17 March 2014  and the purchases on 21 March its possible the 
contract notes  may have been contained in two communications  one for the contract notes for the 
sale of funds  and one for the purchase of funds or possibly one communication  with all the contract 
notes. But I think it is unlikely no contract notes were sent at all.
Standard Life has also pointed to the six monthly statements sent to Mr G, including an April 2014 
statement that showed  all of the switches  which  Mr G says there is no record of. But he has also 
explained that the Trust file was being dealt with by a colleague not by him so he is unable to say why 
the April 2014 statement wasnt chased up when  this wasnt  received.
Mr G points to the fact that the contract notes and April 2014 statement, if received, wouldve been 
received after the switch  took place  and the CGT liability  had been incurred  so wouldnt have changed 
this. I acknowledge  this but the importance of these additional documents being  sent but him having  
no record of them suggests a problem  at his end.
I also think  it is important that he wasnt in control of the trust file which he says was dealt with by a 
colleague who is not able to provide any evidence  as to what happened in 2013 and 2014. 
I note that Standard Life has also provided  evidence  that it contacted the Trusts agent by emailing 
three individuals. The evidence is also by way of a spreadsheet but again  I accept what  Standard Life 
has said about what this spreadsheet shows  namely  details of the agents for customers  who were 
contacted with regard to the change of funds. Standard Lifes own records show  that two of the 
recipients didnt read the email and is unable  to say whether the third recipient did. But I think  the 
important point again  is that I think Standard Life fulfilled  its obligations  by sending notice.
Mr G has raised another issue with regard  to what Standard Life did. He has questioned whether  it 
could switch  funds without authority from the customer. But as it was no longer going to provide 
externally managed funds after 14 February 2014 it had to take action with regard to those customers 
who had not responded to the November 2013 letter. There was no option that simply allowed  
Standard Life to do nothing  and any action  it took when  no response was received would  have to be 
without authority. So I dont think it did anything wrong in doing what  it did when it didnt receive  a 
response to its letter of November 2013.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained  above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0254410