K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in March  1997. At the start it 
provided Mr S with accident,  sickness and unemployment insurance. In 2002,  the policy was 
amended to provide some  extra monthly  benefit but cover for unemployment only.  
Our adjudicator didn't uphold  the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
Mr Ss main complaint is that his employment  situation wouldve made it difficult for him to 
make a successful claim on the policy so this limited the benefit that the policy  offered him. 
He told us that PPI was part of the application form and it said PPI was strongly 
recommended so he thought he needed  it and had to take it out to get the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why I say this. 
what happened  in 1997
Mr S filled in his mortgage application with the help of a financial advisor. I dont know 
exactly what the financial advisor told him about  PPI during the meeting. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  Mr S to recall  exactly what  was discussed at the time as this was so 
long ago. But the mortgage  paperwork I've seen suggests that PPI wouldve been discussed  
as theres a tick in the box next to where it says:  If you would  like further  details on 
Mortgage Payment  Insurance,  tick the box.
I dont think this wording would've suggested  to Mr S that he had to have PPI  I think its 
more likely that he would've understood at the time that it was up to him to apply for PPI if he 
wanted to take it out.
And it looks like Mr S decided that he did want PPI as a couple of weeks or so later he then 
completed a separate Yorkshire Building Society  PPI application. 
The mortgage offer confirms that he had elected to take out Mortgage Payment Insurance .
Mr Ss mortgage was a major financial commitment, and his home couldve been at risk if his 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. He was the person solely responsible  for paying  
his mortgage and it doesnt look as if he had significant other means he couldve relied on for 
very long if he wasnt working. So, I can see why Mr S mightve  felt PPI was useful to have.
Ref: DRN02791732Looked at overall, I think Yorkshire  Building Society  made Mr S aware that he had a choice 
about protecting his repayments  and that he wanted  to do so at the time - although I can 
understand why he mightve forgotten this after so long. And I find that the policy was added  
to his account when Mr S decided he wanted the benefits PPI offered him and he chose to 
buy it.
Yorkshire Building Society didnt recommend PPI to Mr S. But it still had to make sure that it 
gave him enough  information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for 
him.
Mr S told us that he was entitled to six months  full, followed by six months half sick pay (or 
full pay at company  discretion) and in the event of long term illness he wouldve received  
60% of his final salary  until he received his pension.  Ive also taken into account  what Mr S 
told us about having a substantial four figure  amount of savings from a previous redundancy 
payment. 
But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months for each successful  accident  or 
sickness claim  and repeat claims were  possible.  So the PPI provided better protection  than 
he couldve  relied on getting through his employer. And it wouldve  paid out on top of work 
benefits providing Mr S with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind 
that he mightve had some extra costs as a result  of being sick or disabled. 
Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of discretionary  sick pay being paid over 
and above this. But Im looking at Mr Ss contractual entitlement  because  thats  all he 
could safely rely on when he took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when 
it doesn't have  to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit 
in the event of a successful claim.
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months each  time if Mr S lost his job and became 
unexpectedly unemployed.
I dont know if Mr S wouldve  always  had his savings to rely on if hed needed to make a 
claim as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And it looks  like he preferred 
not to spend his lump sum,  or he had other plans for that money, since he took out this 
mortgage to pay for his new home  rather than use all his savings to reduce his borrowing. 
Having PPI meant Mr S could depend  on being able to continue  to keep the balance of his 
redundancy money intact to spend on other  things or to provide financial security for the 
future. 
So I think the policy offered clear  benefits to Mr S.
Its possible  some information Yorkshire Building Society gave Mr S about the policy wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ss employment situation 
when he took out PPI in 1997. Mr S feels strongly that he was on a fixed  term contract which  
wouldve affected him being able to claim for unemployment on the policy. But I dont think  
I've seen enough evidence to be able to say that hes right about this.
The job advert hed responded  to described his employment as a long term contract.  I dont 
think this necessarily means it was a fixed term contract.  And on Mr Ss mortgage 
application, where it asks an applicant who is an employee to indicate  status  it provides  
various options that include permanent  employee  and on fixed term contract.
Ref: DRN02791733On Mr Ss application on fixed term contract  hasnt been selected  instead,  theres  a tick 
next to permanent employee.
I accept that this form may have been  completed  for Mr S by the financial advisor.  But hes 
signed the completed form at the end where it says: I/we have read any answers  which 
have been completed in other than my/our  handwriting and confirm  that the answers are 
correct.  So I think its reasonable to expect that Mr S wouldve looked carefully over the 
completed application before signing to make sure the information on it was accurate and 
reflected his instructions. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont think its very likely that Mr S wouldve found  it 
difficult to claim  on the policy if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. As far as 
I can see, he wouldve  been able to take advantage of all the policy benefits. Although the 
policy didnt cover some things, it doesnt look as if that wouldve affected Mr S. So, I dont 
think having more  information about  the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve made  any 
difference to Mr Ss decision to take out PPI.
The mortgage offer said that Yorkshire  Building Society  would pay for the first six months  of 
cover. And it set out what the cost of the policy  would be after the free period. So I think Mr S 
wouldve known how much he needed to pay for the PPI each month  and he found this 
acceptable. As it was a monthly premium policy he couldve cancelled this at any time if his 
circumstances changed or he decided he no longer wanted the cover. 
Its possible  some information Yorkshire Building  Society gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But given the benefits the policy  offered Mr S, I think it unlikely he 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think he would still have  taken out the policy.
what happened  in 2002
In 2002 Mr S took out some  additional borrowing on his mortgage account and amended the 
PPI. Yorkshire Building Society didnt recommend PPI to Mr S. But it still had to make  sure 
that it gave him enough information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right 
for him.
Theres nothing on the Additional Loan application form that wouldve made  him think  that 
PPI had to be included with the extra borrowing.  Yorkshire Building Society said it strongly 
recommends PPI. So I think  its fair to say that the wording  on the form makes it clear that it 
was up to Mr S to decide about applying for PPI with his extra  borrowing. 
Mr S completed a separate application  to change his existing level of cover from accident, 
sickness and unemployment to unemployment  only and chose the excess period he wanted.  
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr S lost his job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. And Mr S couldve  made  repeated claims on the policy, 
giving him long term protection for his mortgage.
As far as I can see his circumstances were broadly the same. Mr S continued  to be able to 
take advantage of all the benefits under the policy.  
Mr S increased the amount of monthly benefit he bought  and he couldve had a longer 
excess period. So I think its likely  that Mr S was happy to pay for the benefit hed chosen to 
provide him with security for his monthly repayments.
Ref: DRN02791734Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that he couldnt afford the new monthly  premiums  at the time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him when he rearranged this PPI in 2002, 
I think it unlikely that Mr S wouldve been  put off having the PPI he chose even if better 
information had been provided.  
This means  I dont  find that Mr S lost out as a result of anything  that Yorkshire Building 
Society mightve done wrong. So it doesnt have to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0279173