K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a mortgage he took out with Preferred Mortgages  Limited.  He says 
the mortgage was unsuitable and was mis-sold.
background
Mr M took the mortgage out in 2003.  It was set up on an interest-only basis over a term of 15 
years. He made  a complaint to Preferred in 2018, saying:
-the mortgage was unsuitable;
-the adviser didnt  properly  establish  his attitude to risk or ask enough questions to 
establish his financial  situation;
-the adviser didnt  discuss a repayment  mortgage with him or how he would  repay the 
mortgage at the end of the term;
-the adviser didnt  assess whether he could afford the mortgage payments or how he 
would do so when  he retired,  and encouraged him to apply for the mortgage on a self-
certification basis; 
-the adviser didnt  explain  the consequences  of paying a mortgage  rather  than rent, and 
that he would lose housing benefit  and be responsible for the costs  of maintaining his 
home.
Preferred said it wasnt responsible for the sale, because Mr M had applied for the mortgage 
through a broker  and the broker wasnt its agent. It said the broker appears no longer to be 
trading.
Mr M got in touch with us. He said he thought hed been the victim of a scheme  to take 
advantage of local housing authority tenants and exploit  the right-to-buy scheme. He also 
asked for an extension to the mortgage  term as it was coming to an end and he needs time 
to release equity  in order to repay  the mortgage.
Our investigator said the broker and Preferred are separate businesses, so she couldnt 
fairly hold Preferred responsible for the sale or the advice Mr M received about  it. She found  
Mr M had applied for the mortgage on a self-certification basis,  there  was no reason for 
Preferred to have  thought  he couldnt  afford the payments, and it didnt have to arrange a full 
survey. The investigator  also explained  that we couldnt look into a complaint  about the 
broker because it is no longer trading. 
Mr M didnt  accept that and asked  for a review.  He said the situation hes in now, 
approaching the end of the mortgage term, is a direct result of the mis-sale  which  
Preferred had approved. He also said this is a matter of mortgage  fraud,  which Preferred 
may have  colluded in.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find no grounds  on 
which to uphold this complaint.
Theres no dispute that a mortgage  broker sold this mortgage to Mr M. Thats confirmed by 
the completed mortgage application form and offer, which Ive seen copies of. So the broker 
Ref: DRN06231442 not Preferred  completed the application and was responsible for any advice Mr M was 
given about the suitability  of the mortgage.
The broker  is no longer  trading, so I cant consider a complaint against it. I find nothing to 
indicate other than that it was entirely  separate from Preferred, so I cant  hold Preferred 
responsible for anything  it did wrong.
Preferred approved Mr Ms application  and granted the mortgage. I see no particular reason 
why it should not have  done so. I dont think it could  reasonably have known that the annual 
income of £12,000  given  on the application for Mr M was wrong,  as Mr M has now said it 
was. Mortgage  regulation  has changed  significantly since 2003 but, at that time, Preferred 
didnt have to verify  the income Mr M appeared to have self-certified. In any event, Mr M 
kept up with the monthly mortgage  payments for a number of years.
Preferred didnt have  to arrange  a full survey of the property Mr M was buying either. That 
would have been for him to arrange if it was what he wanted.  Preferred lent Mr M the 
amount he had applied for, and he appears  to have signed to accept  the offer which  set out 
the mortgage terms. In the circumstances, I cant fairly conclude it should have done 
anything differently.
Mr M wants the term of the mortgage to be extended for a period of time. The mortgage  is 
now with a different  lender, so this is something  he may be able to explore with that lender  
and I would expect  it to look at his circumstances  and consider his best interests.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0623144