K820x#14complaint
Mrs T and Mr H complain  that Nationwide Building Society wont  remove  Mr H from their 
jointly-held mortgage account.
background
Mrs T and Mr H took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2008. They separated some time 
ago. Mrs T has remained in the mortgaged property and taken responsibility for the 
mortgage payments.  
In October  2017, Mrs T submitted a change of borrower application  to transfer the mortgage  
into her own name only. But Nationwide declined it, due to Mrs Ts adverse credit history and 
in particular, an Individual  Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in the recent past.  She was advised  
to wait 12 months before looking to reapply.
Mrs T duly contacted Nationwide again  last year with a view to submitting a further  
application. She attempted to contact  the adviser  shed  dealt with before. But she couldnt 
get hold of him, so she raised a complaint.
Nationwide explained  that the adviser  had been  away from the office. Hed not told Mrs T 
specifically to get back in touch with him about  the application  just that she should try 
again after 12 months or so. With no new application submitted, Nationwide  directed Mrs T 
to book an appointment with one of its mortgage  consultants.
Mrs T referred the complaint on to us. She said that since  separating  from Mr H over 10 
years ago, shed been  paying the mortgage  by herself. And shed actually settled her IVA 
early. She and Mr H just wanted Nationwide to move the mortgage into her sole name,  so 
that they could  both move on. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint. He thought Nationwide  had fairly assessed 
the application against its criteria. He didnt find that decision  unreasonable,  so he didnt 
think he could require  Nationwide  to remove Mr H from the mortgage.
Mrs T and Mr H didnt  accept our adjudicators view. They were frustrated that what  seemed 
to be a simple administrative procedure was such hard work  reiterating that Mrs T had 
been paying the mortgage by herself  for 10 years  and this was having  a big impact  on their 
ability to move on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I think its worth  clarifying that while the change  of borrower application  might  feel like 
a fairly  straightforward administrative process  to Mrs T and Mr H, there is legitimately  a little 
more to it than that. In transferring the mortgage into Mrs Ts sole name, Id expect 
Nationwide to assess whether or not it was (and would remain)  affordable  for her: if it wasnt, 
then it would be putting both her and itself in a riskier position by releasing  Mr H from his 
obligations.
Ref: DRN08848292I can see from the internal  notes  of the application  in 2017 that it was declined  on the basis 
of Mrs Ts credit  history and more  specifically the IVA. That didnt meet Nationwides criteria 
and I dont find that unreasonable: a recent IVA would speak to a difficulty in maintaining 
financial commitments   even if Mrs T had been able to pay the mortgage, there appeared to 
be some  broader difficulties in the recent  past.  So while I appreciate  why that wouldve been  
frustrating for Mrs T, I dont think Nationwide acted  unreasonably here.
Rightly it seems  Nationwide  suggested that Mrs T reapply down the line, presumably  with a 
level of encouragement  that the IVA would cease to be a factor with the passing of time.  Its 
regrettable that her attempts to do so were initially hampered by the fact the adviser didnt 
receive her requests. But I think Mrs T could have explored other  avenues  to minimise the 
impact of that.
In the end, Mrs Ts been told that = shell need to submit a new application  so that the 
situation can be revisited. Thats the appropriate way forward. As much as I can sympathise 
with the urgency on Mrs T and Mr Hs part, theres not enough  here for me to simply tell 
Nationwide to remove Mr H from the mortgage  especially  without an up-to-date  review  of 
Mrs Ts circumstances.  
Id expect Nationwide to consider any new application fairly and use the discretion afforded 
to it under the relevant  regulations to assist Mrs T and Mr H in moving forward. And while  I 
hope that will lead to a mutually acceptable resolution, Id also remind Mrs T and Mr H that if 
they are then unhappy with the decision they receive, they can refer that to us for review.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0884829