K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Logbook Money Limited  took his car - which  he had acquired under a 
hire purchase agreement (HPA) - without  his permission and without a court order.  
Background
Mr S entered into a HPA with Logbook  Money  in 2018 to acquire a car. He says that 
Logbook Money took his car without  his permission and without a court order. He says it was 
collected from his work  without warning and Logbook Money used a spare key to take the 
car without  talking to him. He says he had paid more than a third of the total amount due 
under the agreement. 
Logbook Money says that Mr S gave his permission for the car to be collected and it didnt 
carry out a repossession.  It says that Mr S had defaulted on his HPA at the time of collection 
and it had tried to work with him by setting up repayment plans but these had been broken. It 
says that when it collected  the car Mr S changed his mind and asked for the car to be 
returned saying  it had been  illegally repossessed. It says it returned the car to Mr S after 
agreeing another repayment  plan but Mr S didnt  maintain the payments  and made a 
complaint. It says that if payments  arent  made it will consider  further enforcement action 
which could include applying to the courts in order to repossess the car. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. They said that Mr S had consented to the 
collection of his car and therefore a court order wasnt required. They also noted  that the car 
wasnt repossessed  but taken with permission and it was agreed  it would be returned if a 
repayment plan was arranged. The car was returned  to Mr S which she said wouldnt have 
happened had a repossession taken place.
Mr S didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said he consented to the car being  collected 
but the time or place  of the collection wasnt agreed. He said he didnt give permission for 
the car to be collected from his work without him being spoken to and that no receipt  was 
provided. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S entered into a HPA to acquire a car and agreed to the terms and conditions including  
the contractual payments.  These  werent  maintained  and arrangements that had been  put in 
place regarding repayment were broken. Mr S then sent an email to Logbook  Money on 
29 November 2018 saying that if he hadnt made  payment by 3 December  Logbook Money 
could come and collect  the car on 5 December. No payment was made and Logbook Money  
collected the car on 5 December.
I note the points about a court order and Mr S has raised reasonable points regarding the 
requirement for this including the fact he had paid more than a third of the total amount due. 
However, as he had given his consent to the collection of the car I do not find that a court 
order was required.  The HPA sets out that if at least one third of the total payment have 
been made the car cannot be taken against Mr S wishes or without a court  order. However  
in this case the car was taken in line with Mr S wishes and so I do not find that Logbook 
Money did anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN02275612Mr S has raised concerns about  how the collection took place saying that the time and place 
wasnt agreed. I understand why this process  was upsetting but as the collection took place 
on the day he had set out I do not find I have enough evidence to say Logbook Money  did 
anything wrong.
The car has subsequently been  returned as Logbook Money says an agreement was made 
regarding repayment.  I find this reasonable. However I understand this agreement wasnt 
maintained. 
Logbook Money says that further  actions  could be taken, including  court  action, if payments 
arent made. Given the situation on Mr S account  I find it reasonable that Logbook  Money 
would consider further action. Any action would, of course, need to comply with the HPA 
terms and the relevant  regulations.
Overall, I find that Mr S did give Logbook Money permission to take the car. I also find that 
Logbook Money have tried to work  with Mr S by setting up repayment plans and returning  
the car to him. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0227561