K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Miss B complain that Barclays Bank  UK Plc unfairly  and unreasonably delayed  
their applications  in respect of their mortgage and refused to port a mortgage  product as the 
term was being  extended. They want more compensation.
background
Miss B had a lifetime tracker residential mortgage  in her sole name.  Her partner  Mr C had a 
payment plan with a credit card, and said that he believed  that he had to wait a year from his 
credit records being  updated before he and Miss B could apply to borrow more money from 
Barclays and add Mr C to the mortgage.  Once the year wait ended, Mr C and Miss B applied 
to turn the sole mortgage into a joint one, to borrow more money for building  work, and 
wanted to extend the term of the mortgage. Barclays refused  to allow  Miss B to keep the 
interest rate from her current mortgage  due to the extension of the mortgage term. 
Mr C and Miss B also complained that Barclays caused unnecessary delays to their 
applications and gave poor service,  and werent happy about  the valuation  obtained.
Mr C and Miss B complained to Barclays. It agreed that it did cause delays as it failed  to 
update notes on its system, and its service wasnt good enough in terms of communication.  
Barclays paid £400 compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused.  But it said Miss Bs 
original mortgage  product  was portable subject  to its lending policies, and pointed  out what  
Miss B wanted to do wasnt  technically porting  as there was no change of property. The 
issue was that Miss B (and Mr C) wanted to extend  the term of the mortgage,  which  meant 
that a new interest  rate would  have  to be chosen as the mortgage was changing.
Mr C and Miss B complained to us. They said their building works were delayed  and their 
annual holiday interrupted by having  to chase Barclays to progress the applications. The 
adjudicators view was that technically Miss B couldnt make  a porting application  she 
wanted to stay in the same property, keep  her product and borrow more money with Mr C on 
a different interest  rate. He agreed  that the problem was that the mortgage  term was to be 
extended, and there  was no obligation on Barclays to agree  to do that and let Miss B keep 
her old product. The adjudicator said that Barclays was able to apply its lending  policies and 
give Miss B the choice  of not extending the term and keeping the product or extending the 
mortgage term and get a new interest  rate.
The adjudicator agreed that Barclays did cause unreasonably delays to the applications, but 
didnt think any financial loss had been  caused. He thought that £400  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr C and Miss B disagreed. Mr C raised  issues about his employment which  werent 
relevant to the complaints  this service was dealing with (which Mr C accepted werent  within 
this services jurisdiction).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03702032Dealing with Miss Bs mortgage  product  first, to port a mortgage the same amount has to be 
borrowed for the same length of time and the mortgage must be being ported to a new 
property. That isnt what Miss B was doing  she wanted to simply extend  the amount of time 
to repay  the debt (and borrow more money and add Mr C to the mortgage).  Effectively,  
Miss B wanted to change the terms of the mortgage but keep the same  interest rate. 
Barclays wasnt required to agree to this significant  change and was acting fairly and 
reasonably by applying its lending policies   Miss B had the option of keeping  the product  
and not extending the mortgage term, though I accept that it mightve  affected  her ability  to 
borrow more money.  Its also worth noting  that to port a mortgage, the identity of the parties  
normally dont change, but Mr C was also to be added  to the mortgage  the transfer of 
equity was likely to be needed to be done first before dealing  with any port.
I note that Mr C and Miss B are unhappy about  the valuation  of their property, but Barclays is 
entitled to rely upon a specialist report from a professional valuer.
Turning to the delays with the applications and service issues,  Barclays accepts that its at 
fault. Theres no evidence  of financial loss, and I would comment  that until an application 
completes, it isnt certain when the money  will be received. No work should  be booked  to be 
carried out until the money is received,  something  which Mr C shouldve known as he works 
in financial services. I think  that Mr C and Miss B were caused trouble and upset by 
Barclays failings. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, and compensation  
is not awarded on the basis  of potential future savings for the lender. We look at the 
inconvenience and stress suffered. I accept Mr C and Miss B had to contact Barclays  while 
on holiday  and were  worried  about  when the building works could start; they also suffered 
due to the unnecessary delay and communication issues.  But having considered all the 
circumstances and the evidence, I think £400  compensation  is more than fair and 
reasonable for their trouble and upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 February  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0370203