K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy Revolut Ltd restricted and then closed his account without any explanation  
and then transferred  his money back to source  without his permission. 
background
Mr Ss account was restricted on 12 February  2019 and Revolut sent him a message 
explaining it was reviewing his account  and undertaking a security check. The account was 
then closed on 12 March  2019 and the money remaining in the account was returned to 
source  meaning  it was sent back to the accounts  where it had come from.  
When Mr S complained to Revolut  it explained that as per the terms and conditions of his 
account, it was entitled  to suspend the account  and undertake a review.  It said it had taken 
the decision to close Mr Ss account  and return any remaining funds to source in line with its 
policy. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with this so referred  his complaint to this service. He says that Revolut 
converted and transferred his money  without his permission. He explained that before the 
restriction was placed on his account,  he had 160412 HUF and 785 Euros. However, he only 
received 245.58 Euros back. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She concluded Revolut had followed its legal 
and regulatory  obligations when restricting and closing Mr Ss account. She said it didnt 
have any obligation  to tell him why it had done  so. She explained the money has been  
returned to source  and she wouldnt  be asking  Revolut to do anything further.
Mr S remained unhappy,  stating that Revolut isnt legally entitled  to convert and transfer  his 
money without his permission. The complaint has therefore been  passed to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons.
Restriction and closure
Revolut has a wide range  of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet  when providing 
account services to its customers.  These  are ongoing  so dont just apply at account  opening  
stage. To comply with these obligations,  it may need to review  accounts and the activity  
taking place on them. And part of this might  require it to restrict a customers access  to an 
account where appropriate. If Revolut didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Taking this into account, Im satisfied Revolut was within  its rights  to review Mr Ss account 
and that it was entitled to suspend it while it carried out that review. It did so in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations and in line with the account terms and conditions. Im also 
happy that the time taken  was necessary  and reasonable for Revolut to conduct its review 
and it didnt cause  any unnecessary delays.  
Ref: DRN08177472Revolut werent obliged to tell Mr S why it was carrying out a review on his account  as 
much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
Having reviewed whats happened, Im satisfied Revolut were  also entitled  to close 
Mr Ss account and did so in in line with the account  terms  and relevant regulations. Revolut 
has the discretion  to offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr S can choose who to bank 
with. So, whilst appreciate  this caused  Mr S inconvenience, I cant  say Revolut have treated 
him unfairly  here. 
Returning the funds  to source 
Revolut returned  all the remaining money in Mr Ss account to source.  Mr S is particularly 
unhappy with this as he says Revolut  converted his money and transferred it without his 
permission. He says this has meant he only received  a small portion of the money back.  
Having considered all the information  available to me, I can understand why Revolut chose 
to return the remaining money in the account  to source and believe this was reasonable 
given the circumstances. I therefore wont be asking  Revolut to take any further action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0817747