K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited is dealing  with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr C made  a claim to his insurer, UKI for repairs to his car. He chose to use a garage of his 
own choice rather than a UKI approved repairer.  He said the reason for this was because  of 
a previous poor experience. 
Mr C complained about the quality of the repairs  to UKI. UKI said because Mr C didnt use 
an approved repairer, it wasnt  responsible for any issues Mr C had with the repairs.  But it 
said it could have handled his complaint better and caused delay. To compensate Mr C for 
this, it paid him £250.
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator explained that we couldnt look at all 
of the issues Mr C raised. Some complaints were about the repairer and the solicitors  
dealing with the liability dispute.  Some were  complaints that Mr C hadnt yet raised with UKI. 
In summary,  the complaints the investigator  looked  at were:
UKI mis-sold the policy to Mr C.
UKI wont  accept responsibility for the repairs  which Mr C says are faulty.
Mr C asked to speak  to a company director at UKI but was told they dont deal 
with complaints.
The investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. He thought  the 
compensation it paid of £250 for the delay in handling Mr Cs complaint was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr C has provided a detailed response  to the investigators views to explain why he doesnt 
agree. I understand that Mr C is frustrated about  the amount of time hes spent raising his 
complaints  and he feels  its unfair that he has to raise  them  with separate  businesses. Our 
role is to look at whether  UKI as Mr Cs insurer dealt with his complaint in a fair and 
reasonable way. Mr C has commented that he believes we are here to protect the consumer. 
We take an even  handed approach, look at all the information from both sides  and aim to 
resolve complaints  informally.  
The investigator has explained the complaints we cant look at and provided details of the 
appropriate contacts  for Mr C - if he wants to take those complaints further. 
So my decision focuses  on the issues Mr C raised  with UKI which  it has replied to. 
Ref: DRN02099182UKI mis-sold  the policy to Mr C.
Mr C is unhappy that UKI didnt explain  that his car insurance policy  wouldnt provide cover  
for business loss. He believes UKI misled him.
UKI didnt  provide Mr C with advice as to the suitability of the policy  before he bought  it. But 
it did ask Mr C to read the policy wording  before  buying the policy. This wording explained 
what cover  the policy provided.  
Mr Cs policy  insures his vehicle in the event  of an accident, theft or damage. I havent seen 
anything to suggest UKI misled Mr C into believing his policy would provide cover for his own 
time dealing  with a claim. So I dont think UKI mis-sold the policy.
The repairs  carried out by the garage  are faulty
Mr C chose the garage to repair his car. UKI agreed  to pay for the repairs.  However,  Mr C is 
unhappy with the quality  of the repairs. He feels UKI is avoiding  its responsibilities and 
should be accountable for its inability to get things fixed  properly.  
I understand Mr C had a previous poor experience which led to his decision not to use an 
approved repairer  this time. But I can only consider this complaint and whether UKI acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy.
UKIs policy says that Mr C can decide not to use an approved repairer. But it says that 
unless repairs are carried out by its approved repairers, they arent guaranteed even though 
it may pay for the repairs  directly. Where repairs are carried out by an approved  repairer, the 
works are guaranteed  for five years. This isnt an unusual term.
As Mr C didnt  use an approved repairer, this means UKI isnt responsible  for the issues 
Mr C has with the quality  of the repairs.  
Mr C believes  weve disregarded the amount  of time hes spent as a result  of UKIs poor 
handling of the claim  when  we considered  the £250 compensation it paid him was 
reasonable. However, as the investigator explained, UKI paid this sum in recognition  of its 
delay in handling Mr Cs complaint  and not his claim. 
Liability in this case is under dispute:  this inevitably means the case  will take longer to settle. 
Its also unfortunate  but unavoidable  for a customer  to experience  a degree of 
inconvenience and time when dealing  with a claim. 
I understand how strongly Mr C feels about  his complaint. Its upsetting to be involved in an 
incident  and it can be time consuming dealing with the different  businesses handling 
different aspects of his claim. But because I think UKI has dealt with Mr Cs complaint 
reasonably  I dont  think it should  compensate him for the time hes spent raising his 
concerns. This means Im not asking UKI to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN02099183Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0209918