K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end 
the agreement.
background
Mr S tells us he acquired the vehicle on 20 September  2018  from a dealer Ill refer to as C. 
He said he started experiencing problems with the vehicle from the outset and that the 
vehicle required recovering on the date of supply. He says he tried to reject  the vehicle at 
this point but that C refused his request. Mr S reports that repairs were done to the timing  
chain and clutch in October 2018.  But whilst  the vehicle was in for these repairs  he says 
further damage was caused. Mr S tells us that despite these repairs  the vehicle continued to 
run badly and he complained to C, in November 2018, about the way the vehicle was 
behaving. He felt it was dangerous and bouncing  around where the shock absorbers  had 
gone. Subsequently he says he noticed  further issues including the front suspension leaking 
and knocking;  split pipes; cracked belts; and faults  with lower bush arms. Mr S says he 
doesnt think the vehicle is fit for purpose and wants to reject it.
BMFL told us that after Mr S original complaint the vehicle had been repaired and it believed 
the matter to be closed.  But following his making  a complaint to this service and the report of 
further faults with the vehicle, in May 2019,  it said itd arranged  for an independent 
inspection to be carried out by a company Ill refer to as SV. It said the engineer  had 
concluded the faults hadnt been present at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 March 2020. I said I intended  to 
uphold the complaint as I was satisfied that the vehicle hadnt been  of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to Mr S. And that after repairs it still didnt conform to contract.
I recommended that Mr S should  be able to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Both parties  have replied  to my provisional  decision. And I thank  them for their responses. 
Mr S agreed with my provisional view but BMFL didnt. It said Mr S hadnt shown the repairs  
had failed. As no new information  has been provided Im not minded to alter my provisional  
decision which is repeated in my final decision as set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr S has encountered ongoing problems with this vehicle and has suffered 
inconvenience due to its unreliability. Unfortunately, with older,  high mileage vehicles the 
chances of things going wrong are increased and thats whats happened  here.
Ref: DRN07220872Mr S hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMFL supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard to factors which  can include - but are 
not limited to - the age of the goods and previous use. It also includes an element of 
durability.
Mr S acquired this vehicle  when  it was nine years old and the mileage was just over 87,000 
miles. So it wouldnt be expected that the vehicle would be perfect  or perform to the same 
standard as a new vehicle. Its not in dispute that within a few weeks of supply to Mr S the 
vehicle required repairs. Ive seen  an invoice dated  12 October 2018 from a company Ill 
refer to as D which indicates that the timing chain  was replaced.
A second invoice  from a company Ill call E, also dated 12 October 2018, shows the supply 
of a clutch and fly wheel assembly.  Mr S says this was replaced by C and that he was 
charged for this work. Ive not seen any job sheet or invoice to confirm  this as Mr S says it 
wasnt provided.
Following these repairs Mr S again  expressed  his view that the vehicle  wasnt performing 
properly. Ive seen  several text messages  dated  early November 2018, from him to C, listing  
various issues. This includes a complaint that the vehicle was in a dangerous condition  and 
bounces around badly. And he also complained to BMFL around this time.
After BMFL had issued  its FRL on 13 December Mr S replied indicating  hed tried to reject 
the vehicle and complained that it hadnt been  inspected after the repairs.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service in January  2019  and later made reference to 
further issues with the vehicle  in May 2019. After this, BMFL agreed to have  the vehicle 
inspected. Ive seen the report following the inspection conducted by SV on 6 June 2019. At 
this time the vehicle  odometer records the mileage as 93,019 miles.
The report  found  the vehicle to be in poor general condition  and the bumper to be misaligned 
and cracked. And the inspector noted:
an oil seepage to the engine  sump  area that looked as if it had been active  for an extended  
period of time considering  the area effected.
And he reported: 
I took the vehicle  for a short road test and noted  a drift to the left when driving and braking. 
The vehicle responded harshly and unpredictably when driving over uneven areas of a 
normal road with the steering pulling one way then the other and seemed hesitant to 
accelerate through the full rev range.
In his conclusions  the inspector stated:
Ref: DRN07220873There is no evidence at the time of inspection to suggest that the vehicle could not meet  
minimum MOT standards point of sale. In September  2018 which  is confirmed by the fact 
that the vehicle passed  an MOT  in and around the point of sale with a similar mileage at the 
date of purchase.
The vehicles handling is very poor and bordering on dangerous as it is unpredictable on 
everyday roads, to ascertain  the cause will require further investigation under workshop 
control conditions, possible causes, being  warm suspension bushes or even  a misalignment 
of one or more of the suspension  components,  there was no evidence noted  or presented  
time to confirm that this present at point of sale , therefore we believe that the current  
handling issues have  developed after the date of purchase, this opinion being based  on the 
fact that the vehicle passed an MOT in and around  the date of sale this in conjunction with 
the fact that the steering,  handling/characteristics  would in our opinion have been  noticeable  
even to the layperson during the pre-purchased road test hence the reason we believe that 
developed after the date of purchase.
There is no doubt that the vehicle is currently below average standards, however based on 
all the documentary evidence and physical evidence noted at the time of inspection the 
vehicle met minimum MOT standards at the point of sale, therefore the vehicle be 
considered road legal at the date of sale, however we do believe that general condition of 
the vehicle was below average even taking into account the vehicle has covered 90,000 
miles or more date of purchase.
Finally we recommend  that the vehicle  is not used on a public highway at this point until the 
cause of the steering characteristics have been identified  and rectified.
Where facts are in dispute or information is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive seen information detailed in an invoice  from a company Ill refer to as L which shows 
this vehicle broke down on the date of supply and had to be recovered. Its not in dispute  
that the clutch assembly and timing chain were  replaced in October  2018.  I think  this clearly 
shows that at the date of supply the vehicle was not of satisfactory  quality. And didnt 
conform to contract.
Mr S has told us that he tried to reject the vehicle but that C wouldnt allow  this. Ive no 
reason to disbelieve Mr S but as he accepts  he wasnt aware of his full consumer rights at 
this time he admits he allowed repairs to go ahead.
During the period the vehicle was being repaired Mr S alleges that damage  was caused to 
the vehicle including the bumper. Whilst SVs report confirms damage to this area Im not 
able to say when it occurred so I cant say when or by whom it was caused.
After the vehicle was returned to him Mr S continued to make complaints  about its 
performance and ultimately this led to the inspection  by SV.
BMFL has said in its reply to my provisional  decision that Mr S hadnt supplied  evidence that 
repairs have failed. But thats not the only factor which has to be taken into account  when 
considering satisfactory  quality. Ive already indicated that due to the breakdown  immediately 
after the time of supply  it was likely  the vehicle when supplied to Mr S didnt conform  to 
contract.
Ref: DRN07220874The CRA offers the supplier of goods  - where the customer has agreed to repairs  - one 
opportunity to restore the goods to a condition where they do conform  to contract. That 
means in the case of a motor vehicle its the overall condition of the whole vehicle ( not just 
individual component parts) that determine  if its of satisfactory  quality after the repairs. If 
other issues (such as an oil leak) werent  identified that could still mean  the vehicle didnt 
conform to contract even if some repairs were  successful.
Ive carefully considered  the findings  of the report compiled by SV and I think there are some  
factors which may have  unduly influenced some of the engineers  conclusions.  Theres 
reference to the vehicle  passing an MOT test around the time of supply.  From that the 
inspector concluded that the vehicle  met minimum MOT standards  and was road legal at 
the point of supply.
As a general statement  this may be true - although I note the MOT  is dated  21 September  
2018 (one day later).  But the MOT test is largely designed to check the safety aspects of a 
vehicle. Its not a measure of whether  the vehicle was of satisfactory  quality.
A vehicle  which  didnt have a MOT when supplied  (if one was required) wouldnt be 
considered to be fit for purpose. But it doesnt follow that a current MOT means  that a 
vehicle is of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. Thats clear  from the fact that this vehicle 
broke down  immediately after supply and required major repairs  for issues which wouldnt 
have formed part of the MOT test.
Ive already indicated that an older,  high mileage vehicle isnt to be judged by the same  
standards as a new vehicle. Nonetheless  it must - after the point of supply - show a level of 
durability which is reasonably proportionate to its previous history. And Ive considered that 
the inspector has indicated  possible  causes  of some of the present  issues as being  faults  
with the suspensions bushes and possible misalignment of the suspension components. 
These might normally be considered issues of wear and tear. But he also said this would 
require investigation  under workshop conditions to confirm. And this hasnt occurred.
The cash  price of this vehicle was just over £7,000 and the agreement  was due to last for 
three years. So I think most reasonable persons wouldnt  expect  a vehicle to deteriorate  so 
quickly as to become  unsafe to drive within 6,000 miles of supply. This by itself would call 
into question the durability of the vehicle. But the engineers  report  also found  that the 
general condition  of the vehicle was below average even taking into account  its mileage at 
the date of supply.  And the reference  to the oil seepage having been active for an extended 
period also implies this was probably present at the time of supply. This suggests the issue 
probably wasnt identified  and/ or repaired  when  the vehicle was having the timing  chain  and 
clutch assembly fitted in October 2018.
On a balance  of probabilities I find that the vehicle when supplied to Mr S wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. And when the vehicle was returned to Mr S following the October repairs  
it hadnt been returned to a condition so that it conformed to contract. SVs report  confirms  
the presence of oil seepage  which it said had been  present for an extended period of time.
So its probable  that both at the time of supply and after the October repairs the vehicle was 
experiencing an oil leak which  hadnt been diagnosed or repaired.
Ref: DRN07220875Mr S has provided a photograph image of the odometer which shows the vehicle hasnt been 
used since it was inspected by SV. And in view of SVs statement that the vehicle was 
unsafe its reasonable that Mr S hasnt  used it from that time. So I dont think  he should be 
liable for payments for this period.
In summary,  I find that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied due both to its 
below average  general  condition  and the likelihood it was supplied  with an oil leak at that 
time. Additionally, its lack of durability and the probability that the oil leak remained 
undetected and unrepaired - despite the vehicle having undergone other repairs  - means 
that Mr S should be allowed to reject the vehicle  and end the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I intend  to require Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to take 
the following  action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr S to pay from 6 June  2019;
2.Refund any monthly payments made  for any period after 6 June 2019 (pro rata if 
necessary);
3.Arrange collection  of the vehicle at no cost to Mr S;
4.Refund the cost of recovery and inspection of £300;
5.Pay £200 to Mr S for distress and inconvenience;
6.Subject to all payments due on this agreement being up to date arrange for the   
removal of the details of the agreement from Mr S credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0722087