K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr C on behalf of the estate  of Mr W says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him 
the PPI.
background 
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018.  An extract  is set out below:
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I dont think the policy  was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
In Nationwides  response to Mr Ws original complaint, it told him that the PPI was 
compulsory. But Nationwide has since told us that there was an error in its response letter.  
Nationwide has told us that PPI was compulsory  where the loan was over 95% of the 
property value or purchase price. It says that it wasnt compulsory for Mr W to take PPI 
because his mortgage was exactly 95% of the purchase price. 
Ive carefully considered  this alongside the paperwork we have from Nationwide. On Mr Ws 
mortgage application form, theres a section about  the PPI, which was called Mortgage 
Payment Cover. And within this theres  the wording:  Please note that where the loan is over 
95% of the property  value or purchase price, whichever is lower,  Mortgage Payment Cover 
is compulsory.
And I can see from the mortgage  offer letter  that Mr Ws mortgage worked out to be exactly 
95% of the purchase price.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that it was compulsory for Mr W to take the PPI. 
As it wasnt compulsory, Nationwide should  have  made it clear to Mr W that he had a choice 
about taking the PPI.
When Mr W brought his complaint to us he said he didnt have a choice about taking the 
PPI. But he also referred to the letter  Nationwide  had sent him in response to his complaint. 
And as Ive said, Nationwide has told us that it made an error in this letter  by implying  the 
policy was compulsory  when it wasnt.
Mr W hasnt said anything to suggest  that he was told the PPI was compulsory at the time of 
taking it out. And Ive also kept in mind  that he brought his complaint to us over twenty years 
after the policy was sold to him, and even the best of memories tend to fade over that time 
frame.
In the PPI section  of Mr Ws mortgage application form it says: we recommend that you 
protect your monthly repayments against  accident,  sickness or unemployment Cover 
whole of mortgage is handwritten below this. And Mr W has signed the application form.
So on balance, I think its more likely that Nationwide  made  it clear  that Mr W didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why Mr W 
might not have remembered this when he brought  his complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN01452952Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr W got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Mr W told us he didnt need the policy because of the generous  sick pay he was entitled to 
from his employer. He also said that he wouldve received a substantial  redundancy 
payment if hed become unemployed. And he told us hed had savings.
But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy payment Mr W 
mightve received  if hed made a successful  claim.  It couldve helped him keep his savings 
intact or allowed him to spend them on other outgoings.
Mr Ws mortgage was a significant, long term commitment and the consequences  of not 
being able to keep up with his repayments couldve been very serious. So I think  he couldve 
found the policy useful and it wouldve given  him peace of mind. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr W off taking out the cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Ws 
estate.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr Ws estate because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive also thought about everything Mr C has said - including what  hes said about  
Nationwides delay  in letting Mr Ws daughter know that Mr Ws PPI policy was no longer 
active when she tried to make a claim on his behalf  in 2014. But I can only consider a 
complaint if it falls within certain  criteria  set out in our case-handling rules which I must 
apply. These  can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook  (available online). 
DISP 2 says that we can only look into complaints about certain  activities,  for example, those 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  or covered by one of our former schemes. 
Assisting in the administration  and performance  of a contract of insurance is a regulated  
activity. But the contract  of insurance was no longer in place when Mr Ws daughter 
contacted Nationwide in 2014  as it had been cancelled  back  in 2002. So Im sorry, but were 
unable to help with this part of the complaint.
I set out what Nationwide needed to do to put things  right.
Ref: DRN01452953responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
Nationwide said it didnt  have anything further to add.
Mr C responded with some further comments for me to consider, which I have summarised  
below.
He said that he thought  Nationwide should  be held to its original statement that the PPI was 
compulsory and if that is the case  he didnt  think the sale could possibly be considered 
appropriate.
Mr C questioned why Ive said that Nationwide  didnt recommend the policy  to Mr W when 
the application form says we recommend that you protect your monthly  payments against  
accident, sickness or unemployment He thinks we should proceed  on the basis  that the 
PPI was recommended by Nationwide because of the wording on its document  and this 
wouldve amounted  to a personal  recommendation. Mr C says that this means  Nationwide  
should have made suitability  checks which it didnt.
Finally, Mr C says Mr W didnt need  the PPI because he was entitled to six months  full sick 
pay, followed by six months half pay from his employer. If hed still been unable  to return to 
work after 12 months, he wouldve received the benefit of a prolonged disability insurance 
policy until he was able to return.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C is disappointed with the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I can see that hes put a lot of time and effort into this complaint. And it must be 
particularly difficult for him, given  that Mr W has sadly  passed away  since  he brought the 
complaint to us.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Cs comments.  Unfortunately, they havent made a 
difference to my decision.  Ive set out my reasoning  below.
 
Nationwide told Mr W that the PPI was compulsory in its response to his complaint in 2013. 
Mr C says I should hold it to this statement. But Nationwide told us that it said this in error 
and the PPI wasnt compulsory.
No doubt this mistake  has led to some confusion. But what Ive needed to consider is 
whether or not the PPI was mis-sold to Mr W in 1992. This means Ive needed to weigh up 
what was most likely to have happened at that time. And having considered all the 
information available to me, Ive concluded  that the PPI wasnt compulsory. I also dont think  
that, on balance,  Mr W was led to believe that it was compulsory at that time. 
Ive also thought about whether or not Nationwide  is likely to have recommended the PPI to 
Mr W. 
Ref: DRN01452954The mortgage application form says we recommend that you protect  your monthly  
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment I interpret this to be a general 
statement that Nationwide recommends  all consumers think about protecting  their mortgage 
 Im not persuaded this amounts to a personal  recommendation  that the policy  was suitable 
for Mr Ws specific needs and circumstances. I also havent seen anything else to suggest 
that Nationwide intended to provide a tailored recommendation to Mr W. 
Mr C feels strongly  that Mr Ws sick pay and prolonged disability insurance made the PPI 
unnecessary. I can understand why Mr C feels this way as it seems that Mr W couldve 
relied on this if hed fallen ill or had an accident. But this was a non-advised sale. So it wasnt 
for Nationwide  to tell Mr W that he may already have sufficient cover and might not have a 
need for PPI. Instead, it had to provide Mr W with sufficiently clear information about  the 
policy to enable him to decide this for himself. This means it was for Mr W to weigh up what 
he knew of the PPI policy against  his existing benefits at the time to decide  for himself if was 
right for his needs  and circumstances.
I accept its possible that the information  Nationwide gave Mr W about the policy wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  This means  that when Mr W chose to take out the policy, he 
mightve done so with incomplete information. So I need to decide  if Mr W wouldve made a 
different decision,  and not taken out the policy, had better information  been provided. 
Looking at the paperwork I have from the time,  I can see it described  the policy as providing 
cover in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment. Knowing this about the policy,  
Mr W chose to take it out  despite  his existing benefits and other means.  So it seems he 
had an interest in taking  this type of cover. 
While I cant see how the cost of the policy was presented  to Mr W, it looks like it was 
affordable. And while I also cant see if the key exclusions or limitations  of the policy were 
adequately drawn to Mr Ws attention, his circumstances  at the time dont suggest that he 
wouldve been caught by any of these.  So taking this into account, Im not persuaded that 
better information about the policy wouldve stopped Mr W from taking it out.
So having  considered Mr Cs points, I still dont think the PPI was mis-sold. This means 
Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Ws estate. But it does 
need to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI because it didnt tell Mr W about the high level 
of commission and profit share it got.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr Ws estate any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr Ws estate  any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr Ws estate  the extra he paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr Ws estate  8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr Ws estate can claim back the tax if it doesnt need to 
pay tax.
Ref: DRN01452955my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Ws estate
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr Ws estate any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask the executors of 
Mr Ws estate  to accept  or reject my decision before  25 February 2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0145295