K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about email notifications that Halifax  Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) sent 
him in July and August 2018.
background
Halifax wrote  to Mr W in July and August 2018  notifying him that he hadnt read emails 
theyd sent him about corporate  actions.  The July letter gave the email  address that Halifax  
had used, but the August  letter gave a blank email address  ().
Mr W complained  to Halifax about the August  letter not giving an email address. He said 
hed had to check  that his email address was registered with them. Halifax later accepted  
theyd made  a mistake  when the letter was generated, and confirmed they held the right 
email address for Mr W.
Mr W also complained that Halifax refused to resend the emails he hadnt received. 
He wanted them to provide further  information  so he could  investigate  why he wasnt  
receiving the emails. 
Mr W decided  to change his email  address to try and find out what  the problem was. 
Halifax sent notification  emails to both of his addresses, but only the one to the new address 
was received. Mr W established that the emails to his original address had been blocked by 
his internet service  provider. He complained to Halifax that the emails had been  rejected 
because they contained a link to another website  that was unsafe.  
In response to Mr W, Halifax  said their emails had been received by the vast majority of 
customers. They said theyd consider  Mr Ws comments about the website  link, but advised 
him to contact his internet service  provider to resolve the issue.  Halifax offered Mr W £50 in 
compensation for failing  to include an email address in their August letter, not using his 
correct title and previously giving him incorrect information about  removing links in their 
emails.
Mr W complains that Halifax  should  have agreed to remove the website link promptly,  but 
they didnt. He says Halifax sent him another email  in January 2019 to his new address and 
he can see the same link is still there.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint. She thought Halifaxs  offer of £50 in 
compensation was fair and reasonable. Mr W disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision. He thinks Halifax  should  be told to remove the link in their emails 
and should pay him a fee for identifying the problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators findings on Mr Ws complaint.
The first point Ive looked  at is what  the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account  say about 
how Halifax would communicate with him. The relevant  term says:  
Ref: DRN05439152if you have registered to use our online service we will ordinarily send all written 
notices and other communication to you by email to the latest  email  address that you 
have given us. Emails  will be treated as arriving immediately upon  sending by us.
Halifax have provided  evidence that the August 2018 email was sent to Mr W. And although  
theyve been unable to provide similar evidence  for the July 2018 email, Ive no reason to 
doubt it was sent.  
I think Halifax sent Mr W emails about  the corporate  actions in line with the terms and 
conditions of his account. Halifax have said the vast majority of customers received  the 
emails. But when Halifax didnt receive confirmation that Mr W had read the emails,  they 
wrote to Mr W. So I think Halifax did what they should have.  
It seems  that Mr W didnt  receive Halifaxs emails because they were rejected by his internet 
service provider. Mr W says that was because the emails included  a link to another website 
that was unsafe.  
I cant be sure that Mr W is right about the reason why he didnt  receive the emails. 
Were not IT experts and, even if we were, it would be difficult to be certain  about  what  had 
happened. Having said that, I accept that Mr W has looked into this matter  and provided  
evidence to support  what hes said. 
But, even  if I were  to agree with Mr W about why he didnt receive the emails,  I wouldnt be 
telling Halifax to put things right in the way hes suggested. 
The ombudsman service  is not the regulator. We cant tell a business  what they should 
include, or not include, in their communications with customers. Nor is it our role to punish 
businesses for any mistakes. 
Instead, where something has gone wrong,  we look at the impact its had on the consumer 
and whether the business has put things right in a fair and reasonable way. 
I understand that Mr W feels strongly about  whats happened, and doesnt  think Halifax  have 
taken his concerns  seriously or provided  as much  information as he would like about  how 
their IT team  would  deal with the matter.  
But I think Halifax have acted in line with the terms and conditions  of Mr Ws account.  
And Ive not seen  any evidence Mr W lost out financially by not receiving the emails he was 
sent. So overall I think the compensation of £50 is reasonable for the impact  of Halifaxs 
actions on him.
I realise this wont be the decision Mr W was hoping for, but I wont be asking Halifax to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Halifax Share Dealing 
Limiteds offer of £50 to be fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN05439153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0543915