K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001 alongside  a credit card. Miss D says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS)  mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Miss D didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. Ive seen  a copy of the application  form which shows Miss D selected  PPI. 
Although the form shows a printed  X rather than a manual selection, Miss Ds 
personal details  have also been completed electronically and as the PPI was sold 
during a branch meeting I think its more likely that the information and choices on 
the form reflected  the discussion between Miss D and the representative. Miss D also 
signed this form and so if she had any doubts about  PPI at this time,  she could have 
raised this with the representative.
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss D has said - including what she has said about her other 
means of making  repayments and the financial difficulties  she was facing. But these points 
dont change my decision.  The PPI would  have paid out in addition  to Miss Ds sick pay and 
for a longer  period of time.  It would also have paid if she lost her job. And I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI was unaffordable to Miss D at the time of the 
sale.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss D paid for it. But BoS has already  offered to give Miss D back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Miss D now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt done 
so already.
Ref: DRN03916242my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0391624