K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds unhappy with the exchange  rate Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA used when 
converting her money into Euros.  
background
Mrs D cancelled a fixed term sterling  deposit account and asked for the money to be 
converted into Euros and sent to another of her accounts abroad. She says she wasnt told, 
as she shouldve been, the exchange rate that would be used. She says if she had been 
told, she wouldnt have  made the transfer  when she did as shed have  waited for the rate to 
improve. 
Banco Bilbao said in its final response that when Mrs D asked for the exchange of her 
money into Euros, she said she hoped the exchange rate would be favourable. Mrs D says 
she assumed the exchange rate used would be the rate set by the Bank  of England  but 
Banco Bilbao uses its own daily published  commercial exchange rate. Thats available  
before the transaction is made in branches, online or if a customer  asks. Its commercial  
exchange offered  doesnt necessarily coincide with the published Bank of England rate. Its 
apologised for any misunderstanding which led to Mrs Ds deposit being  cancelled a few 
days before  it matured and has paid Mrs D some  interest and compensation for this.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
In her communications with Banco Bilbaos handler Mrs D said she would like the 
transfer of her money to be made in Euros and she hoped there would be a good 
sterling/euro exchange rate on the day. In a number of conversations  Mrs D clearly 
asked for the transfer to go ahead and there  wasnt any question  about the rate of 
exchange to be used. The handler  wasnt required to do anything more  than she did.
Banco  Bilbao never  told Mrs D that the Bank of England exchange rate would apply. 
And a customer should never assume  the rate will apply. Rather the customer  should 
check the rate that would be used either by looking at the terms and conditions or 
querying it with the bank before  the transfer happens. Mrs D didnt do either  of these 
things and its not fair to say Banco Bilbao did something wrong that needs putting 
right. 
Banco  Bilbao has compensated  Mrs D for closing her investment early and the loss 
on interest on her money from the date of transfer to the date of maturity and offered 
her some  compensation.  This is fair and reasonable. Not least as the banks 
exchange rate was less favourable on the date of maturity.  
Mrs D doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  She says her claim is that 
due to a lack of information from Banco Bilbao  she hasnt received the total mount  of her 
money transfer. The bank shouldve provided  her with information  so that she could phone 
about the rate of transfer on the day before it was made. The handler didnt tell her to phone  
the bank and it didnt occur  to her that it would apply a different rate to the Bank of England. 
Her employee status also wasnt considered.  She consulted the Bank  of England  rate and 
finding it to be reasonable she decided to give the transfer order. Banco Bilbao is at liberty  to 
apply the exchange rate it wants but it shouldve told her. It should've  been  more clear and 
transparent. And it should now refund €1,605.32  due to the difference in the exchange rate 
applied.
Ref: DRN07511652my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banco Bilbaos general terms and conditions say that if a customer  asks it to make a 
payment in euro it will use its daily reference exchange rate for that currency.  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest it ever agreed that this rate, or any rate it would use, would be 
guaranteed to match the Bank of Englands rates. As Mrs D accepts its up the Banco Bilbao 
to set its exchange rate and Ive seen  nothing to say it didnt apply its actual daily reference 
£/€ exchange rate on the day Mrs D asked it to make the transfer.
The terms and conditions  also say Banco  Bilbao will provide the daily reference exchange 
rate to you (including  in our branches  or by telephone) when you request the payment. 
I've no doubt the daily rate the bank used  was available  in branches,  online and wouldve 
been disclosed if Mrs D had asked  about it.
In this case the bank's handler  didnt  mention  the exchange rate when she spoke to Mrs D. 
But by then Mrs D had given clear instructions to go ahead with the transfer and she didnt 
question exactly what the likely rate would be. All she said to the handler was that she hoped 
the rate would be a good one on the day. It also appears she didnt check the rate online or 
in a branch as she couldve reasonably done.  
Instead Mrs D says she checked the Bank of England  rate which  of course Banco Bilbao 
never promised or was bound to match.
Mrs D says her status as an employee also wasnt considered by the bank. But given that 
status I think its reasonable to have expected Mrs D to have been more  aware  of how 
Banco Bilbao operated  and how and where to get information, than its average customer.
Taking everything into account  I don't  think I can fairly conclude that Banco Bilbao did 
anything wrong  by going ahead with the transfer when it did and in doing so applying  its daily 
reference exchange rate. And I think Mrs D couldve reasonably mitigated any suggested  
loss she says she suffered by simply checking  the exchange rate that would be used by 
Banco Bilbao when the transfer was made.
Consequently although I understand Mrs Ds frustration I don't think I can on balance fairly  or 
reasonably ask Banco Bilbao to do anything more than its already done, including paying  
€1,605.32, or any more  money, to Mrs D as shed  like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0751165