K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). 
background
Mr and Mrs B jointly took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2009. At the same  time they took 
out a regular premium  MPPI policy to cover  their mortgage payments. The policy  wouldve  
covered repayments  on the mortgage if Mr and Mrs B couldnt work  due to sickness or 
accident or lost their jobs for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  She thought Mr and 
Mrs B wouldve  understood they had a choice  in taking the policy  and thought it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for them.
Mr and Mrs B disagree. So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
NatWest had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice in taking the policy. Mr 
and Mrs B say this wasnt done, but they havent given us much  detail  about  why they 
thought this which is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. So 
Ive had to proceed  on the basis of what information I have and what I think  is most likely to 
have happened.
NatWest have given  us a print out of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application. I can see on it 
there is a section that deals with MPPI that has the option of either  applying  for or declining 
MPPI. I can see that the application shows Mr and Mrs B wished to apply  for MPPI to cover 
them both and the cost of the premium is also listed.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage declaration signed and dated by Mr and Mrs B which  
confirms with a tick in the relevant boxes  that insurances that were discussed and selected  
at the time they took out their mortgage. And on the offer document in the insurance section 
it highlights that MPPI  is optional and shows the cost of the monthly premium. 
So on balance I think Mr and Mrs B were  given enough information  to understand MPPI was 
on offer and was optional.  And I think Mr and Mrs B chose to take MPPI because  Ive seen a  
completed separate direct debit mandate for MPPI titled in bold font Mortgage Repayments  
Protection Insurance. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest NatWest advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy.  
What this means is that I dont think it recommended MPPI to Mr and Mrs B based on their 
individual circumstances,  it just gave them information about  MPPI and it was up to them to 
Ref: DRN06525462decide if they needed it. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make an informed  choice  about taking out the policy.
I dont know if NatWest  gave all the information as it shouldve.  But I think that Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve still taken out the policy if NatWest had done more  because:
They were eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like they wouldve been caught  by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs B say they were entitled  to sick pay and their 
parents wouldve helped with their mortgage  payments if they couldnt  work. But 
there is no guarantee their parents could help and the policy wouldve paid out on top 
of any work benefits and for potentially longer. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs B in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy wasnt affordable for them.  And if they 
decided they no longer wanted the policy they couldve cancelled it.
This means  Mr and Mrs B arent  any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by NatWest.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0652546