K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains about the quality of a kitchen  installation  he paid for through an agreement  
with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi Capital).
background
Mr V had a kitchen fitted in August 2018.  He paid for it through  a fixed sum loan with Hitachi 
Capital but he complained  that it had not been  fitted properly as the sink was 20mm out of 
alignment and therefore  not central to the window or properly aligned with the kitchen unit.
Hitachi Capital didnt  agree to take any further action  as they noted that Mr V had signed  off 
the templates  provided by the worktop fitters.
So Mr V referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. She 
noted that the claim had been brought to Hitachi Capital under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 which said that Hitachi Capital, as the supplier of finance,  were jointly  liable 
for any misrepresentation or breach of contract of the suppliers. But she didnt think  there  
was evidence of any breach of contract here as Mr V had explained  to her that hed agreed 
to the sink being moved over slightly to accommodate the positioning of a hinge.  So she 
couldnt say the fitters  had done  something wrong  and therefore couldnt say Hitachi Capital 
needed to take any further action.
But Mr V disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr V but I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr V made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
Ref: DRN07794102against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
But for a claim to be successful there needs to be a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation and here Im not persuaded that was most likely  the case. Mr V has 
explained that he agreed to the sink being moved  a little and as the sink is only 20mm  off 
centre it sounds like thats what the fitters  have  done. Im not persuaded that sufficient 
evidence has been provided to show the position  was moved  more  than was decided. So it 
wouldnt seem  fair to suggest the fitters have done something that wasnt agreed and I 
therefore think that Hitachi Capital have been fair and reasonable in rejecting Mr Vs claim 
and that they neednt  take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0779410