K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains the vehicle with which he was supplied  under a hire agreement  from Arval 
UK Limited  was misrepresented. He also complains  he wasnt  properly informed  about  his 
cancellation rights  relating  to a cooling off period. He wants to reject  the vehicle and cancel 
the agreement.
background
Mr S tells us he originally signed a hire agreement with Arval on 19 October 2018. He says 
this had to be altered,  as a service pack had been omitted, and a new agreement  was 
signed on 26 October.  Mr S states  the vehicle was delivered on 9 November and that he 
notified Arval of his intention to withdraw from the agreement on 10 November. He says this 
was due to the vehicle  not being  of the specification he ordered.  He says it wasnt supplied 
with the heated seats and sat nav hed required.
Arval told us that the vehicle with which Mr S was supplied was in accordance  with the 
agreement hed signed. And that the cooling off period had expired on 9 November. It said 
in those circumstances Mr S wasnt entitled  to withdraw from the agreement.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She said the terms of the 
hire agreement had read:
Once you have signed, you will have for a short time a right to cancel the agreement.
She said the agreement  didnt  specify how a short time was to be defined. She felt Mr S 
had notified Arval of his intention to cancel the agreement on 10 November - the day after 
delivery. She considered this to be within a short time.
Arval did not agree and said Mr S had not ordered the vehicle  with the additional  
accessories hed claimed. And it said he wasnt entitled to reject the vehicle as the lack of 
these items  did not render  the vehicle faulty.  As its not been  possible to resolve the 
complaint an ombudsman has been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr S has suffered the inconvenience of the vehicle he agreed to hire not being  
what he expected.
I should explain that in dealing with a complaint I do not apply the law - directly  - but I do 
take it into account.
And where  evidence is unclear - incomplete or contradictory - as some of it is here I make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. That is I decide what  I think  is the most likely 
explanation to account for whats happened.
Ref: DRN03092662It seems  this complaint  turns on two main issues.
 
a)If the vehicle was supplied in accordance with the agreement and as ordered by 
      Mr S.
b) If Mr S was able to cancel the agreement without being  liable to pay charges 
including cancellation charges.
Ive seen two agreements,  dated  19 October  and 26 October. The difference between the 
documents is that the second document includes a service pack  as part of the deal. Neither 
agreement refers to the additional accessories,  heated  seats and sat nav system. Mr S has 
said he made his requirements  clear  to the broker but not directly to Arval.  
I think its up to a customer  to ensure the agreement which  hes signing is in keeping  with his 
wishes. And the order forms contain  no mention  of the additional items. I do not doubt Mr S 
when he says he told the broker of his requirements. To some  extent  that is supported by 
the need for a second agreement - as it appears  the service  pack  was also omitted from the 
original agreement. But Id have thought this might  reasonably have prompted a further  
check. If one item had been omitted  it would seem only logical to think  that there may also 
have been other errors. So I dont think Arval did anything wrong in supplying  the vehicle  in 
accordance with the second agreement.
However, that does  not resolve the issue. Mr S noticed what  he thought were missing 
accessories and he promptly sought  to cancel the agreement.
Im going  to take the second (amended)  agreement as the operative version. As this was 
signed on 26 October,  I think  the statutory cooling  off period expired  on 9 November - that 
is after 14 days from the agreement. But whilst a business is required to offer consumers at 
least the level of rights that are contained  in statute - there is nothing to prevent a business  
from offering increased benefits.
The pre-contract information and the agreement itself refer to the consumers rights to 
cancel. It says within the key information section:
Once you have signed this agreement you have a short  time in which  you can cancel it. 
Details of how to cancel  it will be sent to you by the owner.
Arvals position is that the statutory cooling off period and the short time to cancel 
provision are the same. I dont think the agreement makes this clear. Its not for me to tell 
Arval precisely how it should word  the terms and conditions within its agreements.  But it is 
for me to say if I think relying  on those  terms and conditions is fair and reasonable. And that 
includes considering  if theyve have been  made  sufficiently clear  to a customer.
On any reasonable  interpretation, I think Mr S seeking to cancel  the agreement  within  one 
day of delivery falls within the description  short time. Although  that term applies to the date 
on which agreement began, in reality it wasnt possible  for Mr S to be aware of any issues  
with the vehicle until after it was delivered.  Ive not gone into details  of the delivery  itself - 
and how the circumstances of this might  have further delayed Mr Ss response. I think  he 
indicated his intention  to cancel within a short  time, irrespective of these issues.
Ref: DRN03092663It seems  to me that if Arval wished to define  short time as having the same  meaning as 
statutory cooling off period it would have been easy to amend the agreement so as to 
make this clear. And by not doing so it leaves open  the definition  of the phrase short time 
to a wider interpretation.
The other significant point is that the right to cancel was not subject  to any restriction on 
cause. In other words  Mr S didnt require a reason,  good or otherwise, to withdraw.
Based on the evidence  with which Ive been  provided I think  its a fair and reasonable 
outcome to decide  that Mr S was entitled to cancel the agreement. And that he should  not 
have to pay any cancellation charges in order to do so. Its equally fair he should have to pay 
for the use hes had of the vehicle. Mr S has indicated  he agrees with this conclusion. 
For clarification, the agreement also required  Mr S pay a deposit  and Im aware hes not 
done so. But as Id have  ordered this to be refunded then it should not be taken into 
consideration in assessing the monthly payments due.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
Subject to Mr S making payments - at the rate detailed in the agreement of £354.65 per 
month and pro rata for any incomplete  month - up to the date of his last using the vehicle, 
Im ordering  Arval UK Limited to:
1.Cancel the agreement without further  payment  being due from Mr S.
2.Arrange to have  the vehicle collected at no cost to Mr S.
3.Arrange for details  of the agreement to be removed from Mr Ss credit  file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0309266