K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss M say HSBC Bank  UK Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them  a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M and Miss M bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  The policy was increased  in 2003 at the 
same time as Mr M and Miss M took out a further  advance. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M and Miss M for accident, sickness, and unemployment   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £300 a month  towards Mr M and 
Miss Ms mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £17.82  a 
month, but it was free for the first six months, so Mr M and Miss M only paid one premium  for 
the policy before it was amended in 2003. At this time, the monthly benefit increased  to £450 
and cost £26.73. Mr M and Miss M only paid one premium at this price  before the policy was 
cancelled the following  month.
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a production worker in a supervisory role. He told us he 
was entitled to at least  six months  sick pay and redundancy pay. He also said they had 
around £200 in savings.  Mr M has said he was in good health at the time of sale but had 
some pre-existing  medical  conditions. 
Miss M was employed as an administrator. She also told us she was entitled to at least six 
months sick pay. Miss M has said she was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Mr M and Miss Ms circumstances were  similar in 2003, when the policy was amended.
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account information  is no longer 
available, which means it must have  closed no later than 2005.  
Mr M and Miss M previously used  a representative who made lengthy and substantial  
representations on their behalf.  I have thought  about the points they raised.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr M and Miss Ms representative said:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M and Miss M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr M and 
Miss Ms representatives believed there to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN05048062The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr M and Miss M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and Miss M and 
the impact they would have had on their chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr M and Miss M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr M and Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr M and Miss Ms. I dont intend  to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Miss Ms 
complaint.
The sales  took place  in 2002  and 2003  before the sale of general insurance  products like 
this became regulated by the FSA in January  2005. So the FSAs  and the FCAs overarching  
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  no later than 2005. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
Ref: DRN05048063There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
The sales  were made  during a period of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance  
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr M and 
Miss Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sales took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr M and Miss Ms complaint.  
Ref: DRN05048064key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr M and Miss M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr M and Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M 
and Miss M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr M and 
Miss M suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and Miss 
M and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr M and Miss  M know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I havent seen  an application form for the PPI when it was first taken in 2002, but HSBC has 
provided notes from the time of sale and its adviser  recorded that PPI was discussed  and 
agreed to during the meeting. Mr M and Miss M didnt pay for the policy  until after the free 
period of six months had passed  and I think its more likely than not they would  have 
received information  about the PPI before  then.  If Mr M and Miss M hadnt agreed to it, I 
would have expected them to have  queried  it with HSBC sooner. 
HSBC has provided  an application form that was completed for the further  advance  in 2003. 
This has a section about PPI and shows that Mr M and Miss M chose to increase their cover. 
Mr M and Miss M have  both signed the form, confirming  they agreed  with the selections on 
it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M and Miss M knew the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN05048065did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC says it provided advice during the sales. Mr M and Miss M have said that it didnt but 
based on the evidence Ive seen  from the time  I think it did. This puts more  responsibility 
on HSBC, so in fairness to Mr M and Miss M, Ive considered the case on the basis  that 
advice was given.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr M and Miss M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HSBC took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr M and Miss M. The adviser  had information  about some of Mr M and Miss Ms 
financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and 
needs statement  was completed to try and establish whether Mr M and Miss M had a need 
for the policy  by asking questions about  their wider circumstances such as any health 
issues and existing means  I dont think  it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable 
because I dont think they asked enough questions about those circumstances. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M and Miss M given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded HSBC advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr M and Miss M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M and Miss M met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr M and Miss M had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr M and Miss Ms 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if Mr M or Miss M was not working  for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for the employee benefits  they say they would have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr M and Miss M. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M and Miss M. 
There was nothing  about Mr M and Miss Ms employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for either  of them to claim.  And Miss M hasnt told us about any 
pre-existing medical conditions that could have  affected her ability to claim. 
Regarding Mr Ms pre-existing medical conditions, Mr M has told us about three 
conditions he had previously, but he only missed a couple of days  off of work, some  
years before  the policy was sold, so I think the policy was still suitable for him. There  
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr M and 
Miss Ms circumstances.
Ref: DRN05048066Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr M and Miss M 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what HSBC was recommending to them  and make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M and Miss M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M and Miss M were  unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr M and 
Miss M would have taken  out the policy without  any sense  of what the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of both sales doesnt  tell us whether HSBC  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr M and Miss M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M and Miss M, Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr M and Miss M all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr M and Miss Ms representative raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr M and 
Miss Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr M and Miss Ms representative considered  
to be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business 
rather than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M and Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr M and Miss Ms previous representatives views on this. The duty of 
utmost good  faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract  to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr M and Miss M have suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that HSBC ought  to have done either. 
Ref: DRN05048067what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr M and Miss  M? To what extent did 
Mr M and Miss M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr M and 
Miss M. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr M and Miss M suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr M and Miss M would have  still taken  out the policy,  had HSBC done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M and Miss M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M and Miss M have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if HSBC  had explained  things 
properly, Mr M and Miss M would have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mr M and Miss M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M and Miss M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr M and Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of both sales that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M and Miss M knew  they would have to 
pay something for the policy, its not clear  whether  HSBC told them the exact premium  at the 
point Mr M and Miss M applied  for the policy. But Mr M and Miss M didnt pay for the policy 
for the first six months and chose  to increase the cover (which increased the cost) after they 
paid their first premium.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M and Miss M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN05048068In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr M and Miss M would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr M and 
Miss Ms expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M and Miss M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical conditions  or symptoms that 
occurred within the first 12 months of the policy that Mr M or Miss M knew about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;
 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M and 
Miss M werent  permanent  employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M and Miss M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in the sales, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M and Miss M from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr M and Miss Ms circumstances at the time of both sales shows  
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr M and Miss M were 
eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, 
couldve proved  valuable to them should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mr M and Miss M wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Miss M didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and was in 
permanent employment.  Mr M did have some pre-existing medical conditions, but he doesnt  
appear to have been affected by them for a few years before the sales  took place and he 
hasnt said that any of the conditions reoccurred  within the first 12 months of the policy  start 
date. Mr M was also in permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good  reasons 
to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M and Miss M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
HSBC may not have  told Mr M and Miss M that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 12 months  was a longer period than Mr M and Miss M would have received full sick 
pay for, and their statutory  redundancy entitlement  would also have been significantly less 
than 12 months income.
Ref: DRN05048069In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M and Miss M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr M and Miss M be unable  to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, 
it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home 
was not placed at risk and might potentially  help preserve Mr M and Miss Ms sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M and Miss M would still have taken  out the policy  and later amended it. The 
policy was suitable  for them, was sufficiently  close to what  its likely they thought they were 
getting and provided benefits  that would help them manage the consequences if Mr M and 
Miss M were made redundant,  or unable  to work  through  accident or disability. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr M and Miss M would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr M and Miss Ms representatives  said the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M and Miss M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr M and 
Miss Ms circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr M and Miss M found themselves in as a result  of the sales  was the same  position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M and Miss M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M and Miss M in the position they would  have been  in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN050480610That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr M and Miss M compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M and Miss M think HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information HSBC gave Mr M and Miss M, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2002 and 2003 when providing information  about  an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr M and Miss Ms representative said a court  might  
take if it were to find HSBC negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr M and Miss M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that HSBC  had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M and Miss M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0504806