K822xcomplaint
Mr W is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) refused to repair his 
property after he made a claim under his home insurance policy for damage caused  by a 
water leak.
background 
In September  2018, a few months  after buying  his property,  Mr W discovered a water  leak in 
his kitchen. The leak was repaired. He made a claim to RSA for the water damage  to his 
home.
RSA appointed a restoration company to dry the property and a loss adjuster to manage  the 
claim.
After receiving its loss adjusters report,  RSA said it wouldnt  cover  repairs  to the property. It 
said the damage had been caused by a pre-existing issue and that the leak must have been 
ongoing for a considerable  amount of time. It thought that a taped pipe leading to a stop tap 
was evidence that the previous owners were aware of the problem prior to Mr W purchasing  
the property. It said he wasnt covered for something  that had happened  before his 
insurance cover at this property had started.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator upheld it. She wasnt persuaded 
that it was a pre-existing leak or that Mr W would  have  been aware of an underlining issue. 
She thought  RSA should pay the claim with interest  on top of a cash settlement.
As RSA didnt agree, the matter has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy covers damage  to his home  from a number of insured events, including  an 
escape of water. Its not in dispute  that theres been an escape of water. There  are also a 
number of exclusions. One of these is:
Any loss, damage, liability,  cost or expense  of any kind occurring, or arising from an event 
occurring, before the insurance period starts.
Another exclusion is for gradually  occurring damage.
Where an insurer wants  to rely on an exclusion,  its up to it to show,  on balance, that the 
exclusion more likely  than not applies  to the claim. So in the case  of the first exclusion its for 
RSA to show that the damage arose from an event that occurred before his policy started. 
The key pieces of information that RSA relied  upon  are the reports from its loss adjuster  and 
the restoration company, so Ive thought carefully about their conclusions.
RSAs loss adjuster  seems to have placed  a lot of weight on the fact that according to Mr W 
there was an incorrectly fitted connection  from the mains water pipe to the stop tap under  the 
sink and this had been taped over a number of times. The loss adjuster thought this 
suggested that the previous owner had been aware of a defect.
Ref: DRN03436712I can understand why the loss adjuster thought this was a sub-standard repair. But the fact 
that it wasnt a long-lasting repair  doesnt necessarily mean it had never worked or that the 
pipe would have  been leaking when Mr W bought  the property.  The restoration company 
wasnt sure that this was the cause of the leak anyway. 
I note that in his invoice  Mr Ws plumber referred to excavating the concrete floor and 
repairing a fractured pipe.  Having seen a photo  of the excavated  pipe, I dont think the pipe 
laid in the concrete would  have had to be exposed  and repaired, if the leak was in the 
connection to the stop tap above  the flooring. Im not persuaded that RSA has shown  a 
faulty connection to the stop tap was the most  likely cause of the leak.
The restoration company reported:
On our inspection visit we have  found  water damage to the kitchen/lounge diner/ toilet and 
garage, where we are able to access the concrete pad to the kitchen the concrete has signs 
of long term exposure to water to the point  where you can push your finger into the 
concrete.
Mr W didnt have a full survey carried out before he bought the property. But his lender did 
have a mortgage valuation done. The surveyor  who carried out the valuation ticked  a box in 
his report confirming that there was no serious  dampness and no specialist reports were  
required in this respect.
Mr W also provided RSA with a letter from his local water company. This confirmed that leak 
detection had been carried  out in Mr Ws local area in April 2018.  It involved listening to stop 
tap valves and other  fittings. The letter said that a further survey had been  carried  out in 
June/July 2018 which involved sending signals to detect leaks. The writer said that theyd 
found numerous  leaks in the area but none  at Mr Ws address or any other property  along  
his stretch of road.
No one has been able to determine how long thered been a leak.  RSA accepted  that it 
couldnt be completely sure that the leak had happened before Mr W took the policy out. Its 
loss adjuster thought most  of the damage  had happened after the policy had been  taken out. 
The only convincing evidence Ive seen  that the leak might have been  going on for some 
time is the fact that the concrete under the kitchen ceramic floor tiles had become spongy. 
But even so, I havent seen any evidence as to how long the pipe must have been leaking 
for the concrete to get to this stage.
RSA later raised the point that its also not liable to pay gradually occurring damage. I accept 
that on a strict application of the policy terms, thats  the case. But I dont  automatically  say 
that its fair to rely on such an exclusion.  I also look at whether a consumer should have 
been aware of the damage  occurring.  In this case most of the damage was to the concrete 
floor underneath ceramic  tiles. Until a problem with his washing machine  alerted Mr W to the 
fact that there was a water leak, I dont  think  there  was sufficient evidence of damp in his 
home that he should have realised there was a water leak. Since he couldnt  be expected to 
have done anything more in this respect,  I dont  think its fair for RSA to seek  to rely on this 
exclusion either.
As I dont think RSA acted  fairly in relying on the exclusions mentioned above to decline this 
claim, in order to treat Mr W fairly  I think it should accept the claim and if it makes a cash 
Ref: DRN03436713settlement, it should add 8 per cent simple interest  on top from the date of its final response  
letter to the date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to settle Mr Ws claim 
for an escape of water  and if it makes a cash settlement, it should add simple interest* at the 
rate of 8 per cent to that from the date of its final response letter to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr W a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0343671