K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains about the format Leeds Building  Society uses  on its cheques. 
Background
Mr C has a savings account  with Leeds  Building  Society. Mr C says the cheques Leeds  
Building Society issues contain  unusual features which increase processing times and costs. 
Mr C complained and Leeds Building  Society  issued  several responses.  Leeds  Building 
Society didnt agree  to change its cheque design as a result of Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said Leeds Building Society is free to decide 
what features it includes on its cheque design. Mr C didnt accept and asked to appeal  so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I get into the specifics  of Mr Cs complaint I want to set out what our service  can and 
cant do when dealing  with a complaint. One of our key concerns and focuses is whether a 
mistake by a business has led to a loss for its customer. If I think a customer  has lost out 
financially as a result  of a business mistake  I can tell it to pay compensation to cover  the 
loss. But the Financial Ombudsman Service cant tell a business to change  the way it 
operates. And, key to this complaint, I cant tell Leeds Building  Society  how to design  its 
cheques. But I can look at whether its existing design has led to a loss for Mr C. 
Ive seen no evidence  of any loss caused  by the cheque features Mr C says are 
unnecessary. On 13 August 2019 Mr C responded to the investigator  and confirmed he 
hasnt suffered a financial  loss as a result of Leeds  Building Societys  actions. As Mr C has 
confirmed there has been  no loss and I cant tell Leeds Building  Society  to change the 
cheque design  the outcome here is somewhat  limited. 
Leeds Building Society emailed Mr C on 15 May 2019 and apologised that it didnt respond 
to his initial message  raising concerns about  its cheque format in September 2018. I think  
Leeds Building Societys apology was reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive read and considered everything that Mr C has said and provided in support of this 
complaint, including his emails  in response to the investigators view.  I havent responded to 
each point hes made and have focused on what I think  are the key issues. I hope  Mr C 
wont take that as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal  nature of this service.  
As Ive said above,  I cant tell Leeds  Building  Society how to operate or what  format  its 
cheques should  follow. I understand Mr C has genuine concerns, but I havent found 
anything to show hes been treated unfairly or Leeds  Building  Society  has made  a mistake.  
So Im not upholding this complaint or telling Leeds Building Society to take any further 
action. 
Ref: DRN04196072My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0419607