K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) caused additional damage 
to his property  when dealing with his claim for an escape of water. 
background
Mr R had a home insurance policy with RSA. In March 2018 he discovered an escape  of 
water from a burst water tank had caused  extensive  damage to the property. He made a 
claim on the policy.
RSA initially accepted the claim  and work  began  to strip out and dry the property. However,  
during this work questions were raised about  an invoice that Mr R had submitted for 
payment. Subsequently RSA avoided  the policy due to a fraudulent claim. As cover was no 
longer provided,  this meant all work on the claim stopped. RSA took steps  to recover the 
money spent on the claim from Mr R. 
Mr R raised a complaint  through this service and a final decision was issued in 
December 2018  which said RSA had acted fairly by avoiding the policy. 
However Mr R felt that RSA had left his property in an unacceptable  state.  He said its 
contractors had caused unnecessary damage to the kitchen units  due to poor working 
practices and they should therefore pay for a replacement kitchen. Further, he said contents 
that had been declared  beyond economic repair had been destroyed by RSAs agent  without 
his permission, so RSA should  cash settle  these items. And some  items returned from 
storage had been damaged and these should be replaced. He made a new complaint to 
RSA.
RSA didnt uphold  the complaint. It said in regards to the kitchen, the damage had been 
caused partly by the escape of water  and partly by work carried  out by its contractors. 
However it said this damage was unavoidable and it had agreed  to cover 80% of the cost of 
a new kitchen to cover the damaged  units.  However  this was before the policy  was avoided 
and this would no longer  be covered. Further RSA said that Mr R had given his agreement  
for the items  of contents that were beyond  economic  repair to be destroyed. Finally RSA 
accepted that some  items had been damaged while in storage so asked for more information  
about these items so it could offer compensation.
Mr R didnt think this was fair as he said the damage  to the kitchen had been caused  due to 
poor work by RSAs  contractors. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He 
said that most of the damage to the kitchen  units was caused by the escape of water and the 
subsequent drying.  Further  he thought RSAs agent acted fairly by destroying the items that 
were beyond economic  repair.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He said that most of the damage to the kitchen units  
had been caused by RSAs contractors. He also said he hadnt agreed to the items being 
destroyed so RSA should pay for them. He asked for his complaint to be looked  at by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN01802172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has already  decided that RSA acted fairly by avoiding  Mr Rs policy following a 
fraudulent claim. So I wont be re-visiting this decision or RSAs  decision to pursue its costs.  
However the avoidance does have an impact on this complaint. 
The policy states  as follows:
If Your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated We will not pay any benefit under  this 
policy All cover will be cancelled  with effect from the date of the claim
Mr R says RSA has caused damage  due to negligence  and poor workmanship of its 
contractors. So this didnt  form part of the claim that would have been covered by the policy. 
I need to decide whether this damage  falls outside of the policy cover.  And therefore if RSA 
has acted fairly in its response to Mr Rs complaint.
Kitchen units damaged
Mr R has said that the reason his kitchen units needed to be replaced was because  they had 
been damaged  by RSAs workmen, rather than by the insured peril  the escape of water.  
So he says it falls outside the direct  policy cover and RSA should  pay.
In order to say that the damage  falls outside the policy cover   and therefore that RSA 
should pay for it  I need to be persuaded that damage caused  to the units  was caused due 
to poor working  practises by the workmen and this alone led to some units  needing to be 
replaced that wouldnt have done otherwise.
I have looked  at the reports that were produced by RSAs loss adjuster at different stages 
throughout the claim, to try and understand the damage and how it was caused. The first 
report notes some damage to kitchen  units, including the following comments:
kitchen wall is cracked where it goes into the utility room 2 end panels have blown. 
Kickboards appear affected
So there was damage to the kitchen right from the start of the claim, although at this stage it 
seems that not all kitchen  units  would need  to be replaced.
From looking  at subsequent reports it seems  further damage was caused during strip out 
works and drying,  including a number of scratches  on the doors  of the units.  
Further, in the final report, before the settlement  was agreed at 80%,  the loss adjuster 
stated:
 the PH [policy holder  Mr R] argues that a few of the carcasses/doors are 
swollen/twisted and that the doors will not close and/or are causing damage to the walls 
when the drawer  is opened. As the kickboards are also affected, the PH estimates that 70%-
80% of the kitchen  is affected
Ref: DRN01802173The description of swollen and twisted doors describes damage that would be expected  
when there  has been  an escape of water. This suggests  that although there were scratches, 
a considerable  amount of damage was caused  by the insured peril. And that Mr R agreed 
with that.
Having said that, from looking at all the reports over the time of the claim, it seems  that some 
of the damage  was caused by the workmen while they were drying the property. However  
the damage described seems to be no more than I would expect to be caused when drying 
and stripping out takes place following an escape of water. This was largely  scratches to the 
front of units. I have seen no evidence to suggest that the damage  was greater than to be 
expected and therefore caused by poor workmanship or negligence as Mr R suggests.  
Further, RSA instructed the company  in charge  of the workmen to carry out its own 
Investigation. This concluded that its workmen followed industry best practise and found no 
evidence of negligent work.  
Finally Mr R reported that RSAs workmen caused a second  leak from his washing machine 
while they were carrying  out the strip out works. Although I can see this was reported, the 
damage appears to be very limited. And I havent seen anything to persuade me that the 
leak from the washing machine caused  any part of the kitchen to need to be replaced that 
wouldnt have needed to be otherwise.  
For these reasons I am more persuaded that the damage to the kitchen units was caused by 
the insured peril and as a consequence of the work  required  relating  to this. I therefore think 
RSA has acted fairly by not agreeing to pay for replacement units as the cover is no longer 
in place.
Items of contents destroyed
Mr R is also unhappy that RSAs agent  destroyed  items of contents  that were  beyond 
economical repair, rather than returning  them to him once  the policy was avoided. He says 
he wasnt informed that the items would be destroyed so he hadnt  given  his consent. 
I have looked  through  the notes provided  by RSA that relate to the claim. On 11 April 2018, 
the loss adjuster noted that Mr R agreed to the disposal of the items. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that this wasnt the case. I am therefore more persuaded that Mr R was 
told they would be disposed of and agreed.
Further, at this stage,  I am unsure what RSA could  do to be of further assistance with this 
matter. All items that were  disposed  of were beyond economic  repair so would have been of 
little or no value. Before  the policy was avoided, RSA agreed to cash  settle these items. 
However as the policy is no longer in place,  I cant say that RSA are required to pay anything 
towards these items. I therefore think RSA has acted fairly and wont ask them to do anything 
differently.
Damaged items
Mr R has said that there  were a number  of items of contents that were returned from storage 
damaged and RSA should pay for these  to be replaced. RSA has looked at photos  of these 
items and has agreed that damage was caused  while in storage to all except for the 
headboard. It has said it will look at compensating Mr R for these items, but requires  further 
Ref: DRN01802174information regarding  their value. I think this is a fair offer from RSA and therefore wont 
interfere with its decision here.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I wont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do 
anything differently or in addition.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0180217