K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she didnt receive the spouses pension  she believed  her late husband 
had included  in his annuity  when  he set it up. She says that, as her late husband told her he 
had ensured she would receive an income  for the rest of his life on his death, it should have 
been included.  She wants the spouses pension to be paid and backdated in accordance 
with the option she says would have been  selected.  
background
The late Mr M took out a stakeholder pension plan in 2003 with a selected retirement age 
(SRA) of 65. But in 2007, he decided  to draw his benefits. He took a tax free lump sum of 
£21,349.76 and agreed to a yearly  pension of £3,251.66 which  was paid monthly in advance  
and had a five year guarantee attached.
Unfortunately Mr M died in December  2016  and, following  his death, Mrs M contacted 
Scottish Widows. She repaid an amount that had been overpaid  to the late Mr M and asked 
about her options  going  forward  as she said the late Mr M told her she would be the 
beneficiary of his pension after his death.  
Scottish Widows  explained that the annuity  had been set up as a single life plan with a 
guarantee until 2012. As that deadline  had passed  it explained  that there was no further  
provision for her. 
In June 2018 the adviser who had originally set up the annuity complained to Scottish 
Widows. He said that Mrs M hadnt  received  a spouses pension  following her husbands 
death, despite having received written  correspondence  to confirm she was entitled to one. 
He also complained about the way Mrs M was treated when she made her first enquiry to 
Scottish Widows.  
Scottish Widows  said it couldnt find any evidence to suggest  the late Mr M had asked for a 
spouses pension  to be included within his original quotation so it didnt think  it had made an 
error by not including it. But it did agree it should have provided a better  service  to Mrs M 
when she contacted it in 2017,  by way of a clearer explanation. It sent a payment of £100  for 
any distress and inconvenience caused.  
But Mrs Ms adviser wasnt happy  with the outcome and brought  the complaint to us where  
one of our investigators  looked into the matter.  She didnt recommend the complaint was 
upheld as she didnt  think there was any evidence  to suggest a spouses pension should  
have been included within the annuity, therefore  she didnt think  Scottish Widows had done 
anything wrong.
Mrs M didnt  agree as she said her husband had always  believed  she would inherit his 
pension on his death. She asked for her complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman  so its 
been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
Ref: DRN08581602Ive looked carefully  at the pension  annuity proposal form that was completed in 2007. 
Within the section which required Mr M to make  a choice of annuity  both option  numbers 
four and two were  chosen. Number two related to the tax free cash and annuity option that 
the late Mr M did receive, whereas number four obliged Scottish Widows to pay the tax free 
cash and buy an annuity with a different provider. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that 
the late Mr M had discussed this option  and theres no evidence of another provider from 
whom the annuity  was to be purchased being  noted  on the documentation.
In addition Ive also seen a telephone note from that time when the late Mr M hadnt  received 
his tax free cash. During the call the issue of both options being  noted on the form was 
discussed and it was stated he said this quite clearly option 2 his IFA helped fill in the form 
and ticked the option 2 box. So I think the issue of what option  was required was resolved 
and I think Scottish Widows set up the annuity according to those instructions. 
But that only allowed  for options  around  drawing the tax free cash  and taking an annuity with 
Scottish Widows  or other providers  or delaying talking  the benefits. They didnt confirm the 
type of annuity  that was required such as single, joint, and with or without guarantees for 
example.
I understand that Mrs M thinks the late Mr M would  have intended his annuity  to provide an 
income for the rest of her life on his death. But theres no evidence to show that Scottish  
Widows was instructed to do that and it was required  to continue paying  Mr M the annuity 
hed requested in 2007.  So, once hed died, if this was more than five years after
the annuity had started,  there were no further payments to be made, and no spousal
payments to follow. I think Scottish Widows  carried this out as it should  have  done.
The late Mr M wanted to take his benefits  before his SRA.  So he wasnt  approached by 
Scottish Widows  with a retirement  pack with all of his retirement options. Instead Scottish 
Widows would have provided quotations based on the instructions  Mr Ms adviser gave.
Ive seen that Scottish Widows wrote  to Mr M and his adviser on 15 March 2007  with details 
of the annuity  it had set up. It noted  the amounts involved and that a five year guarantee was 
included. No mention was made  of Mrs M on the letter or any suggestion of a joint annuity.  I 
would have expected either Mr M or his adviser to have queried the fact that Mrs M wasnt  
part of the annuity details,  if they believed a spouses pension should have been included.  
Its not now possible to know what conversations  the late Mr M may have had with Scottish 
Widows in 2007  or what may have given him the impression that Mrs M would receive  a 
pension for life on his death. Its possible that he may have  understood the five year 
guarantee to mean that Mrs M was guaranteed to receive his pension  on his death and that 
he explained  it to her in that way. But its not possible  to do any more  than speculate  as 
theres no evidence  from 2007 to confirm what was discussed prior to taking out the annuity. 
The late Mr Ms adviser says he would always tell his clients to include a joint life option  
within an annuity so its not clear why this wasnt considered here.
But Scottish Widows wasnt the late Mr Ms adviser,  it simply administered  his pension plan 
and then his annuity when  he retired. It provided  some information so that the late Mr M was 
aware of the various annuity options available, but it wasnt responsible  for advising the late 
Mr M on what he should do. In the circumstances, and based on the evidence  Ive seen, I 
cant safely say Scottish  Widows did anything  wrong here as theres no persuasive evidence  
to show that it set up the annuity incorrectly and that it ignored the instructions it was given. 
The fact that the annuity  included a five year guarantee would indicate that Scottish Widows 
Ref: DRN08581603were given some instructions on which to frame the annuity that the late Mr M and his 
adviser requested.
And as I dont believe Scottish  Widows  set up the annuity incorrectly, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I cant say it acted unreasonably by ceasing payments after Mr M died. I dont 
think it had any obligation to pay a spouses pension to Mrs M, as the option chosen only 
allowed for a pension to be paid to her for five years from the date the annuity began  in the 
event of Mr Ms death.
Mrs M also complained about the way she was treated in 2017  when  she contacted Scottish  
Widows to try to understand  her annuity options  following Mr Ms death. I have no doubt this 
was an upsetting and worrying time for Mrs M and Scottish Widows has acknowledged that it 
could have provided clearer, fuller information at that time and has paid Mrs M £100 for any 
inconvenience caused. 
Looking at the impact  this had on Mrs M, at a difficult  time, I think she would have been  
concerned to have  needed to contact Scottish  Widows again for the correct information,  so I 
think the payment  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  and within the range of what I 
would have expected to see for this level of distress and inconvenience.  
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mrs Ms complaint, in so much  as I think the 
£100 Scottish Widows Limited has paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0858160