K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to her alongside a store card. 
I know that PPI was sold to Mrs M in a clothes store. But FICL is responsible for complaints 
like this. So to keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL for the rest of this decision.  
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Mrs M disagreed with that view. She said that when she bought this cover,  she was on a 
three-month probationary period with a new employer. And she didnt think shed have been 
able to make  a successful  claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M, but I havent  upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
As I said above, PPI was sold to Mrs M in a clothing store. I cant  know  what  was said to 
Mrs M at that time. To help me decide whats  likely  to have happened,  Ive looked at what  
Mrs M told us about the sale. And Ive also considered the paperwork that is available  from 
the time.  
Ive looked initially  at whether Mrs M would have known she could have refused PPI. Mrs M 
told us that she accepted  the cover because  she trusted the advice she was given in the 
store. Then she also said that she didnt ask any questions because  she thought the PPI 
was part of the credit agreement. I dont doubt that what  Mrs M told us about the sale is what 
she honestly remembers about it. But its not entirely  clear to me how she could have 
thought the PPI was part of the agreement if she was also advised to buy it. I can see this 
cover was sold over 15 years ago and it is difficult to recall what  happened such a long time 
ago. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing the credit agreement that Mrs M signed. I can see theres  a 
box for her to sign if she wanted  PPI cover  and she has signed it. I think the wording on 
the form is sufficiently clear to indicate  she had a choice about  buying the cover.  And I think  
the person selling the policy would have similarly  made it clear.  I can see that there were 
other financial products  available  on the application  form and Mrs M has refused those. With 
all of this in mind, I think its likely that she would have known she could turn the cover down 
if she wanted to. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that this particular PPI cover was recommended  to Mrs M 
after consideration of her personal circumstances. But FICL still had to make  sure that 
Mrs M was given  enough information about the insurance so she could decide for herself 
whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be clear,  fair and not 
misleading. 
Ref: DRN00175702Looking at the paperwork, I dont  think the cost of the PPI is set out clearly. And it isnt clear  
that Mrs M would have to pay interest  on top of her premiums if she didnt repay her balance  
every month. So the question for me now is whether Mrs M would have changed her mind 
about buying the policy if FICL had told her everything it should have done. To help me 
decide what she would have done,  Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And 
Ive thought carefully about what we were  told about her personal  circumstances  at the time.
As I said above, Mrs M told us that when she bought this cover, she was on a probationary 
period with her employer.  She thought she wouldnt have been  able to make a claim 
because of that. However, Ive looked carefully  at the terms and conditions. And I cant  see 
anything that would  have excluded her from making  a claim because of it. Mrs M simply had 
to be working for more  than 16 hours a week. I can see she had a very short break  between  
jobs and I cant see that would have affected her ability to claim either. 
I can see that if shed  had to make  a PPI claim, 15% of her card balance would have been 
repaid for every month she was out of work for up to a maximum of 12 months  for each  
claim. Mrs M told us that she would have only received sick pay from her employer after 
shed passed  her probation period. And then shed have  received between three and six 
months full pay after that time. It follows then that I think the PPI would have covered her for 
longer than her full sick pay would have lasted. 
Mrs M also told us that a family member would have been  able to assist her if she lost her 
job. I dont doubt  that it would  have  been  the intention  of Mrs Ms family  member to help. But 
circumstances can change and theres  no guarantee that assistance would have been 
available to Mrs M as and when she needed  it. 
Mrs M appears  to have been in good health when she took this cover out. So I dont think 
shed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I 
havent seen anything else that was unusual about her employment circumstances that 
would have stopped her from being able to make  a successful claim if she needed to. 
Taking all of these things into account, I think PPI could have been  helpful to Mrs M at what 
would have no doubt been a stressful  time if she was out of work. Although I appreciate  she 
doesnt now remember, I think she probably  chose this policy   so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. It follows that dont think more or better information about the PPI would  
have put Mrs M off buying it. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M, but after taking everything into account,  I havent upheld her 
complaint. I dont need to tell FICL to take any further action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0017570