K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK plc processed a payment  after she told it that the details 
were incorrect and shed  declined the payment authorisation.
background
Ms N went  to a Santander branch in October 2018 to make a payment of £800. She told 
Santander that it had entered the account number  incorrectly and she declined the payment 
authorisation. But the payment was made.  Santander recalled the payment later that day but 
wasnt able to contact  Ms N that day to let her know that it had been recalled. The payment 
was then made correctly  two days later.  Ms N complained to Santander.  It upheld  her 
compliant and credited £30 to her account for the distress and inconvenience that shed 
been caused. She wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
Santanders offer of £30 was a fair way to say sorry for the error and the impact  that it had 
on Ms N. So he said that he wouldnt be asking it to do anything  further.
Ms N has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that when  she phoned Santander after it had left her a message she was told that 
it didnt have any further information  about  the recall. And she doesnt think that errors  like 
this should be happening and that if shed caused the error she would be held responsible 
for it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander accepts  that it made an error  in connection with Ms Ns payment. Its apologised 
for that and has paid her £30 compensation. The payment was recalled the same day and 
Santander left a message for Ms N asking her to call it. Ms N says that when she phoned  it 
she was told that it didnt have any further information about  the recall.  But she was aware 
the following  day that the payment had been recalled. And she was able to make the 
payment successfully a day later.
These events will have  caused Ms N some  distress and inconvenience. But I consider that 
the £30 that Santander  has paid to her is fair and reasonable compensation for that distress 
and inconvenience.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve  complaints by customers 
about financial businesses by looking at what we consider  to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. We have  no regulatory  or disciplinary  role over those businesses.  So Im 
unable to require  any of them to change the way that it conducts its business. And our role 
isnt to punish a business if its done something wrong.
So Im unable to require Santander to change the way that it deals with payment requests. I 
consider that Santander has responded to Ms Ns complaint  fairly  and reasonably. And I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require  it to pay any 
further compensation to Ms N  or to take any other action  in response to her complaint. 
Ref: DRN05123892my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0512389