K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Ms T complain that they couldnt  take out a new fixed  rate product on their 
mortgage with TSB Bank Plc. 
background
Mr W and Ms T had a fixed rate on their TSB mortgage which was due to end in July 2018. 
They contacted TSB on multiple occasions from April 2018 to ask about taking a new fixed 
rate product,  but TSB wasnt able to arrange  this because it had experienced issues  with its 
IT systems.  This meant  that Mr W and Ms Ts mortgage was moved to TSBs standard 
variable rate (SVR) from 1 July 2018  and Mr W and Ms Ts monthly mortgage payment 
increased until they took out a new product in September 2018.
Mr W and Ms T raised a complaint with our service because they werent happy with how 
TSB had handled things.  They said the matter had had a significant impact  on them; for 
example, theyd needed to travel around  550 miles to a TSB branch, made multiple 
telephone calls, and had to put retirement plans on hold until they knew  what their new 
monthly payment  would be. Mr W and Ms T said that TSB had made many promises  about 
putting things  right, but had failed  to. 
Following our involvement, TSB offered £1,000  compensation,  as well as £150 for any 
associated costs Mr W and Ms T incurred, making a total offer of £1,150. It also agreed to 
refund Mr W and Ms T the interest they had over paid between  July and September  2018 
based on the difference between their new rate and the lowest rate available to them during 
that period, as well as simple interest at 8% per year.
Our investigator said that TSBs offer to put things right was enough. But ultimately, Mr W 
and Ms T said that offer fell short of their expectations given what had happened.  They  said 
that an offer of £2,000  would be reasonable. Neither our investigator nor TSB thought this 
would be fair, so Mr W and Ms T asked for an ombudsman to review the case, and its been 
passed to me to decide what a fair amount would be. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
The issue  at the heart  of this complaint is that Mr W and Ms T were delayed  in fixing  a new 
rate on their mortgage  which  caused  their monthly  payments to increase between 
July and September 2018. 
TSB has accepted that this happened  due to issues it experienced whilst  upgrading its IT 
systems. It agreed to refund the interest Mr W and Ms T had unnecessarily overpaid,  as well 
as interest on that. This effectively puts Mr W and Ms T back in the positon  they otherwise  
wouldve been in, had TSB not experienced issues with its systems.  I think  thats fair, and in 
line with our general approach in putting  things right. As a result,  its left to me to decide  
whether or not the compensation  TSB has offered is fair given whats happened.  
Ive no doubt that being  unable to fix a new interest  rate on their mortgage would have been 
a frustrating situation for Mr W and Ms T. Ive carefully considered all of the points 
Ref: DRN02392942Mr W and Ms T have  made  about  the impact  the situation has had on them,  and I accept 
that they were  unnecessarily  inconvenienced. I also accept this wouldve been particularly 
frustrating as Mr W and Ms T were proactive in contacting  TSB well before their fixed  rated  
ended. I do however think its worth pointing out that Mr W and Ms T could have moved their 
mortgage to an alternative  provider as they were  aware of the issues  before their fixed rate 
ended. So I think  they couldve mitigated the impact  the situation  had on them. 
However, having taken  all of this into account,  like our investigator Im satisfied that the 
£1,000 compensation TSB offered for the trouble and upset caused is fair in the 
circumstances. And based on the evidence Ive been given, Im also satisfied that the £150 
TSB offered to cover  costs (such  as travel expenses  and phone calls) is fair. 
Overall, for the reasons  explained above,  Im satisfied that TSBs offer is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plcs offer to pay Mr W and Ms T the unnecessary 
interest they paid between July and September 2018, 8% interest*, as well as £1,000  
compensation for trouble  and upset caused  and £150 for costs is fair and reasonable. 
I understand that TSB Bank Plc may have already paid some of the above to 
Mr W and Ms T, if this is true it need only pay the balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires TSB Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. TSB Bank Plc must  
give Mr W and Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN0239294