K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Experian  Limited  has included incorrect data on her credit file.
 
background
Ms H says her ex-partner has used her late mothers death  certificate  to record  her as 
deceased within her credit file. And she says Experian has provided poor service, including 
failing to use her middle name when writing to her. Ms H says these mistakes have impacted 
her ability to apply for a number of things, as well as caused her frustration. So she wants  
her records  updated  and a refund of any payments shes  made.
Experian said it completed a thorough search  and found no records that said or suggested 
Ms H had died. It gave her a copy of her credit  file that showed this, and it asked her to 
provide any conflicting evidence  she had so it could consider this. Experian  also said it didnt 
have a requirement to include middle  names  when  writing  to customers.
But Experian  said it did make a mistake after Ms H called to query information on her report. 
It said following the call it sent 14 identical letters  to Ms H (as there  were  14 companies it 
wrote to) which was unnecessary. So it paid Ms H £50 to apologise for any frustration.
Ms H brought her complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into what  
happened. She said shed  reviewed Ms Hs credit  file and nowhere within it did it say shed  
died. And she said Experian will take its records from third parties, such as Ms Hs local 
council. So any complaint about  the accuracy of the data provided would need to be taken 
up with these parties directly.
The investigator also considered that Experian had sent Ms H multiple unnecessary letters. 
And she said while this may have  been frustrating, she said the £50 offered  was more than 
she wouldve recommended. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms H disagreed so the complaint has been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  this complaint I am only able to consider the actions of Experian. Having 
done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Experian is a credit reference agency.  This means  it stores information about individuals, 
including Ms H. But it is lenders and other  account  providers  that will tell Experian  what to 
record and its their responsibility to ensure the information theyve supplied  is correct. 
Where a customer is unhappy about  information  recorded about them, they need  to 
complain directly to the company that provided  that information.
Ms H brought her concerns to Experian  and from what Ive seen it was quick to respond. 
Experian investigated and provided Ms Hs credit file, and after reading this carefully  Ive 
seen nothing to say or suggest she is deceased. And in any case, I cant  see how any third 
party couldve made amendments to Ms Hs credit  file.
Ref: DRN07729042Ms H has been given multiple opportunities to provide any conflicting information  for us to 
consider but weve  not received anything.  So Im satisfied Experian hasnt made a mistake.
Ms H has complained that Experian hasnt used  her middle name  when writing  to her. 
Experian has said it isnt required  to. Ive seen nothing to suggest this has caused  an impact 
for Ms H. For instance, it appears she is receiving her post from Experian. So Im satisfied 
Experian has handled this request fairly. 
Ive seen Experian has apologised for sending multiple letters to Ms H at one time following  
a query  about  her data. Experian has apologised and awarded £50 to Ms H. In the 
circumstances I think this award was fair and Im not asking it to do anything  further.
If Ms H has more  general concerns about the way Experian processes data, she may want 
to raise this with the Information Commissioners Office  (ICO). 
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0772904