K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says the loan repayments caused her to struggle to meet her ordinary expenses. She 
says her financial situation was poor and Sunny shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. Sunny disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Ms complaint should  be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings, are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
Sunny, and Miss M, received my provisional  decision. Miss M didnt have  anything  to add to 
my provisional decision. 
Sunny, didnt agree with my provisional  decision. It, said that:
It wasnt clear  that Miss M was having problems  managing her money  when it 
approved loans 5 and 6. She hadnt had repayment problems, the loan repayments 
were reasonable in respect of her disposable income and other credit  commitments 
and she applied for a smaller amount than she had borrowed earlier. So Sunny 
thought the checks it had made for these loans were proportionate. 
Sunny  said that it also made proportionate  checks before approving loans 7 to 12. 
These showed the loans were affordable. There was no evidence of financial 
problems until after the last loan was approved. And there  was also no evidence that 
Miss M was using the loans to cover  any hole in her finances  previous lending had 
made
In respect of the pattern  of lending Sunny also said that
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) does not mention the number of previous 
loans a customer has had (or pattern of loans)
Sunny  is restricted to the scope of each individual  creditworthiness  assessment to 
the six months of the prospective loan.  It is not required  to undertake  any 
assessment of the overall sustainability of Miss Ms borrowing.
CONC 6.7.22G provides that a firm should  not enter into consecutive  high-cost short-
term agreements if their cumulative effect  would be that the total amount payable is 
not sustainable. But this doesnt  apply here.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I outlined in broad  terms what the business needed to do. But Ive 
provided some further detail here about this and the broader regulations and 
communications from the regulator. 
Ref: DRN03276782The regulations are quite clear  that Sunny needed  to assess the whether the credit it agreed 
was affordable in a sustainable manner. 
CONC 5.3.1(2) stated:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
The previous  regulator, the Office of Fair Trading set out its guidance in the Irresponsible  
Lending Guidance  (ILG). Paragraph 4.2 said:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. We 
consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrowers likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
The current  regulator  has highlighted relending as a serious concern. It said in a recent letter  
(March 2019) to the CEOs of high cost credit providers that:
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio: 
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may 
not be able to afford.
CONC 6.7.21 stated  A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit  where  to do so 
is unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Paragraph 6.25 of the ILG stated Repeatedly  refinancing (or rolling over) a borrowers 
existing credit commitment for a short-term credit product in a way that is unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. 
The OFT considers that this would include a creditor allowing a borrower to sequentially 
enter into a number of separate  agreements  for short-term loan products, one after another,  
where the overall effect is to increase  the borrowers indebtedness in an unsustainable 
manner.
Sunny told us it undertakes eligibility, creditworthiness  and affordability checks  before 
deciding as to whether  to provide a loan. I can see it asked Miss M for details of her income 
and expenses as well as carrying  out a credit  search. 
But by loan 5 I think Sunny should have been doing  more than relying  on the information 
Miss M was providing and instead  it ought  to have been fully reviewing  her financial 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN03276783This is because shed had a lending relationship  with Sunny for over three  months and she 
was making a commitment to make repayments  for another six. The amounts she borrowed  
were a bit lower than before but not by much.  
This is a product  that is meant to be used over the shorter  term and Miss M was clearly  
moving towards a longer term lending relationship. Whilst Miss M was making the 
repayments so far Sunny  needed  to get to the bottom of why Miss M wanted the lending to 
last for a longer period of time. I dont think it did enough here. 
That said,  as I said in my earlier decision, I dont have enough  to say what Sunny would 
seen had it made better checks, so Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about  these loans. 
And by loan 7 Miss M had been borrowing from Sunny for over six months.  The loan amount 
itself wasnt large but the she still had two loans outstanding with Sunny and one of them 
was for £300. So I think this was a clear indication  that Miss Ms lending  was now 
unsustainable and she was failing to reduce the amount she owed. As I said in my earlier  
decision these problems  did come  to fruition later on.  
In my view, its unlikely this situation arose  simply because Miss M had a short-term cash 
flow problem and instead its more likely that there  was a more  fundamental  underlying 
financial issue. So I think it was evident that continuing to lend to Miss M as a responsible  
lender, I think Sunny  would have realised this and not agreed  to lend.
putting things right  what I currently  think Sunny  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans 7 to 12;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 7 to 12 should be removed from 
Miss Ms credit file.
If Miss M still owes  Sunny any of the principal  balance she borrowed on her final three loans 
Sunny should  remove all the interest  and charges applied to the outstanding balance.  Sunny  
should then re-work  the account as if all payments made by Miss M went  to towards the 
principal. But importantly,  Sunny needs  to make sure that Miss M doesnt repay more than 
the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Miss M hasnt repaid  the principal she borrowed Sunny can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Miss M has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if Sunny no longer  owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction  due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Miss M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN03276784my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Ms complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03276785extract from my provisional  decision
This complaint is about  12 instalment loans Sunny provided to Miss M between September  2016 and 
August 2017.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 01/09/2016 £250 6 16/12/2016
2 20/09/2016 £50 6 16/12/2016
3 23/09/2016 £50 6 16/12/2016
4 25/10/2016 £50 6 16/12/2016
5 16/12/2016 £300 6 26/04/2017
6 18/12/2016 £50 6 25/04/2017
7 24/03/2017 £50 6 05/08/2017
8 25/04/2017 £100 6 18/01/2018
9 28/04/2017 £200 6 05/08/2017
10 23/06/2017 £50 6 outstanding
11 05/08/2017 £200 6 outstanding
12 25/08/2017 £50 6 outstanding
I understand loans 10, 11 and 12 were  sold to a third party. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought Sunny was wrong  to approve loans 4 to 12. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the checks it made were proportionate and 
took into account  all of Miss Ms income  and expenditure. And these  checks showed the loans were  
affordable. It said the varied loan amounts indicated that she was borrowing to meet her needs rather 
than an unsustainable pattern of lending.  
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on 
our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Miss M could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN03276786the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments  being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably  make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow 
this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. Ive provisionally decided  to uphold Miss Ms complaint in 
part and have  explained why below.
loans 1 to 4
At the start of the lending Miss M borrowed £250. She increased this by a further £100  very shortly  
afterwards and by another £50 around seven weeks later. She didnt repay  her existing  lending when 
she took these further loans. 
Ive seen a record of the information Sunny  had when  it approved this lending. And whilst Miss M did 
have some other short term lending  I think its reasonable  to say that these loans wouldve  seemed 
affordable to Sunny. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Sunny was made  aware of any financial 
problems Miss M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate her 
circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information it obtained.
I can see a pattern of lending was emerging here, but I dont think its enough to uphold the complaint 
on this basis alone at loan 4. And whilst Miss M clearly had a short term need for money I dont think  it 
wouldve been  apparent  at this early stage of the lending that she was having longer term problems 
with her finances.   
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  Sunny did for these  loans were  
proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend for loans 1 to 4 were reasonable. So Im not intending 
to uphold Miss Ms complaint about loans 1 to 4
loans 5 and 6
Miss M repaid loans 1 to 4 and she took loan 5 straight away. Again she increased  this in a similar 
way as she had earlier over the coming  weeks and months. So its a reasonable assumption that Miss 
M was having problems repaying her borrowing  sustainably. 
Given the time she had been in debt, and the length of time she was committing to going forward,  I 
think that it wouldve  been proportionate to fully review Miss Ms financial situation. And I think  that 
Sunny needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to make sure Miss M was 
in position to make the repayments sustainably.
Ref: DRN03276787I dont think Sunny did this. But Miss M hasnt been able to provide  any further information  that would 
allow me to say with any degree of confidence what Sunny wouldve seen if it had made  better  
checks. So Im not intending  to uphold Miss Ms complaint about loans 5 to 7. 
loans 7 to 12
I havent recreated  individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans  8 to 12 because I dont think  
that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss M, 
with a view to seeing if there  was a point at which  Sunny  should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 7. I 
say this because:
At this point Sunny  ought to have  realised  Miss M was not managing  to repay her loans 
sustainably. Miss M had taken out 7 loans over around a six month period  and she had been 
indebted to Sunny for the same time. So Sunny  ought to have realised  it was more likely  than 
not Miss M was having to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying  her previous lending  was 
leaving in her finances  and that Miss Ms indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably. Sunny 
ought to have known  that Miss M was not likely  borrowing  to meet a temporary  shortfall in her 
income but to meet  an ongoing need. 
Right from the outset Miss M was provided with new loans before she had settled earlier 
ones. This continued going forward. 
Miss M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Miss M. Her first loan was for 
£250 and this was increased shortly afterwards. Loans 8, 9 and 10 were  for £350 and loan 7 
was also running at the same time. Loan 12 was taken out just under a year after Miss Ms 
first. Miss M had paid large amounts  of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
I think  that Miss M lost out because Sunny continued to provide  borrowing from loan 7 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length  of time over which Miss M borrowed  was likely to have 
had negative implications  on Miss Ms ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im intending to uphold  the complaint about loans  7 to 12 and Sunny should  put things right.
Ref: DRN0327678