K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont  refund disputed  cash 
withdrawals made from his account. 
background
Mr T says that fraudulent transactions totalling £18,566.54  were  made  from his RBS current 
account on 9 June 2017. They all occurred over a 24 hour period. 
Mr T says that he logged into his internet banking and noticed that his balance  was 
significantly less than it shouldve been. He says he called RBS and became aware he had 
been the victim of fraud and was advised  to cancel  his card and visit an RBS branch with 
identification  which he did.
RBS investigated  and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. At first it said the 
transactions were  made using the genuine card and PIN, but following a closer  look it 
thought Mr T had authorised the withdrawals  or allowed  his card to be cloned because:
it was unclear how a third party got hold of Mr Ts card in order  to clone it
the spending wasnt typical fraudster pattern
their system had identified some  of the transactions  as suspicious, and they had 
called Mr T to confirm the transactions using the mobile phone number they had on 
file for him. Someone  had called back and used  their automated  system to confirm 
the transactions as genuine.  They couldnt see how a third party  wouldve  had 
access to Mr Ts phone  in order to reply to them
As Mr T didnt agree with RBSs decision,  he asked us to investigate.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  that the withdrawals had been  made fraudulently and was persuaded 
they were most likely authorised by Mr T. 
Mr T responded saying  that he never received  a call from RBS asking him to confirm the 
disputed transactions  as genuine. Mr T asked for the answer to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And where there is a dispute  about what  
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  to have happened 
in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, RBS can hold Mr T liable  for the disputed withdrawals  if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Ref: DRN08808252In this case it seems most likely  that the transactions were done using a cloned card, that 
has Mr Ts account information on its magnetic strip. The evidence provided by RBS shows 
that the magnetic strip was read in the processing of the transactions, it doesnt show  that 
the genuine chip was read or that a PIN was entered.  Also, I can see that Mr T was using his 
card for genuine transactions in the UK at the same time as the disputed transactions were 
being completed overseas  and these  transactions were  chip and PIN.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for RBS to conclude  that Mr T authorised 
the transactions. This is because  I think its more  likely than not that Mr Ts confirmed  some  
of the disputed transactions as genuine, and because of this, I think  on balance  its more 
likely than not that the transactions  overall  were made with his authority.
RBS say they contacted Mr T on his registered  mobile phone  number to confirm some  of the 
disputed transactions  as genuine at the time they were being  made.  Their  records show that 
someone called them in response  to them contacting Mr Ts mobile number, and that person  
confirmed the transactions as genuine using their automated system. 
RBS have provided a mobile phone number they have  for Mr T which matches  with the 
mobile phone number that he has provided to our service  and this is the number they used 
to contact Mr T. RBS says the automated system  wouldve required the person calling to 
provide either Mr Ts sort code and account  number or card number in order  to confirm the 
transactions.
While Mr T says he didnt  receive this call, I can see that Mr T was contacted twice in the 
prior month  and once  in the month  before that to confirm other transactions  as genuine on 
his account, after they flagged on RBSs  system  as potential fraud. I think  that if Mr Ts 
contact number was incorrect  its unlikely RBS wouldve been able to contact  Mr T on the 
previous two occasions to confirm transactions on his account as genuine. And I havent 
seen anything that suggests  Mr Ts phone was out of his possession and I cant see how a 
third party wouldve had access  to Mr Ts phone without his knowledge or couldve passed 
security on the automated  call without  Mr T knowing, given the information needed to do to 
this. 
 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr T authorised the disputed 
withdrawals. It follows  that RBS is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0880825