K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS) reported 
adverse information  to the credit reference agencies and refused to accept her payment plan 
offer.
background
In March 2016 Ms K was supplied  with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with MBFS.
Ms K contacted MBFS in November 2016 to advise that the car had been written  off.
The insurance company  issued  a cheque to Ms K and she mistakenly thought it was a 
personal injury settlement. Ms Ks complaint against the insurance company has already 
been determined  by this service.
The amount  outstanding under the agreement with MBFS is approximately £20,808.50.
Ms K is unhappy that MBFS reported adverse  information to the credit  reference agencies 
whilst her complaint was still being considered.  Shes also unhappy that MBFS has refused 
to accept her offer to pay £100  per month.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said that whilst MBFS should respond 
positively and sympathetically to a customer who was experiencing financial difficulties, this 
didnt mean  that the business  was obliged to freeze interest or accept any particular level of 
repayment. The investigator noted  that Ms K had advised this service that MBFS was no 
longer reporting  adverse information  to the credit  reference agencies  so this aspect  of her 
complaint didnt need to be considered further.
Ms K didnt agree. She felt that shed made  a reasonable offer to repay  the debt given her 
financial circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer gets into financial difficulties a business should treat them in a positive 
and sympathetic way in line with the relevant guidance.
Ms K told MBFS she was unemployed  and having  difficulties repaying  the balance.  I can see 
that MBFS (through its solicitors) responded to Ms K advising  her to seek  debt advice  and 
provided her with details  of organisations which might be able to provide advice.
Theres no obligation on MBFS  to freeze  interest simply because a consumer is in financial 
difficulties. Nor is there any obligation on MBFS to accept a particular offer of repayment.
I understand that Ms K has offered to pay £100  per month and feels that MBFS should 
accept this amount  as shes unable to pay any more due to being unemployed. Whilst I dont 
doubt that Ms K has the best of intentions  in making such  an offer,  I can see that it would 
Ref: DRN09170922take approximately 17 years to repay the balance  at this level of repayment. So I cant say it 
was unreasonable of MBFS to decline the offer.
This service isnt able to require a business  to accept a particular level of repayment 
whatever the circumstances.  So whilst I would expect MBFS to consider any offers put by 
Ms K, its ultimately up to the business  to decide whether it accepts the offer or not.
Based on the available information, I dont think MBFS  has acted unfairly  or unreasonably so 
I wont be asking it to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0917092