K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank plc hasnt helped  them  recover  money they spent 
as a result  of a timeshare  and holiday club scam.  
background
Mr and Mrs S have  explained that they first bought a timeshare in the 1990s.  When the 
timeshare arrangement turned out not to be working  as theyd been led to believe it would, 
they were persuaded by a company, E, to relinquish  it and replace it with a holiday club 
membership. But, they say, E didnt do what it said it would either. 
In 2014, Mr and Mrs S say, they were contacted by another company, C, offering to arrange  
the sale of their timeshare  and help them recover money from E. They  signed an agreement 
with E and paid them  a total of £5,580 - £1,500 by debit card and the balance by bank 
transfer. 
However, C didnt do what it had agreed  to do either, and last year Mr and Mrs S contacted 
Barclays seeking help to get a refund. The bank  said that there was nothing it could do, 
however. It explained that it was too late to seek a refund through the relevant card scheme 
(Visa) and that, since theyd made  the payments willingly, it couldnt  help any further. It 
acknowledged that it hadnt  explained things very well to start with and paid Mr and Mrs S 
£70 in recognition of that. But it wouldnt agree to refund any payments.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators  
considered what  theyd said but agreed  with the bank. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept his 
conclusions and asked  that an ombudsman review  things  as the final stage in our process.              
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
the same  conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I should say first of all that I have a good deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs S. They  have, at 
the very least,  been victims  of sharp  practice  on the part of a number of companies  and 
individuals in the timeshare and holiday club market. Theyve not only lost out financially as 
a result,  but theyve been caused a huge  amount  of stress and worry over many years.  And 
the time they should have  spent  relaxing on holiday has instead been spent worrying about 
timeshares and holiday clubs.
The issue  I have to decide however is whether  Barclays should  refund any of the money 
theyve spent as a result of this. And on that point I agree  with the bank  and our investigator. 
In some cases card payments can be recovered where the goods  or services paid for have 
not been received. But thats  subject to rules, including  time limits,  set out by the card 
scheme concerned   in this case, Visa. Those  time limits vary depending on what is to be 
supplied, and when,  but on any basis the relevant  time had passed  long before Mr and Mrs 
S contacted Barclays. Any attempt to claim through the scheme would therefore be almost 
bound to fail, and I dont believe it would be fair to ask the bank to attempt to make such a 
claim. 
As far as direct transfers are concerned, there  is no such scheme. Mr and Mrs S made the 
payment willingly,  although  I accept they were misled about the service they could expect in 
Ref: DRN08976062return. Im afraid there is therefore no basis on which I could properly require Barclays  to 
make a refund.  
As I say, I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs S, who have been treated  badly  by a number of 
people. But I dont  think it would be right to make Barclays responsible for that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank plc to do anything  further  to resolve 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0897606