K821x#15complaint
Mr O says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2001. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Os complaint  because  I dont  think Santander adequately took 
into account his circumstances when recommending the cover.
This policy wouldnt pay benefit for a disability that is the result  of existing medical 
conditions. Mr O says he had an existing  medical condition when he was sold PPI. So I think 
the most  likely cause of any future need for him to claim  on the policy  wouldnt be covered  
significantly reducing the usefulness of the policy for him. Santander shouldve  taken  this 
into consideration when makings its recommendation. And I dont think it did this.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr O so it was its responsibility  to ask sufficient 
questions to ensure  the policy was suitable. And if it had identified  that Mr O did have  an 
existing medical condition it needed to tell him that the policy might not be suitable  for him 
needs because  of this. I cant see that Santander did this.
Santander has asked  for evidence  confirming  when Mr Os condition  commenced and how it 
was managed at the time of sale. I dont think this is necessary - Mr O has been consistent 
throughout about his condition and I have no reason to doubt what hes said about it. And 
while the condition  appears to have  been  under control at the time the policy was sold  hes 
told us he was receiving  regular check-ups in relation to his condition and was on 
medication. 
So overall, I dont  think Santander did enough  to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr O. I 
think this wouldve mattered to him because he had a medical  condition  when he bought the 
PPI, which  wouldnt have  been covered. And had Santander  asked  the right questions, this 
wouldve been clear.
I dont think Mr O wouldve bought the PPI if Santander had pointed  out that it wasnt  
suitable for him because of his medical  condition. So I think Mr O has lost out because  of 
what Santander has done wrong.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr O in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Ref: DRN05539162Pay Mr O the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
Santander has told us that Mr O made some claims  and he was paid for these claims.  
Santander can take off what he got for the claims from the amount it owes him. Mr O 
should be aware that the total value of these claims could exceed any compensation he 
is due. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. Santander UK PLC should  pay back 
the compensation to Mr O as set out in the putting  things right section above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0553916