K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly  reduced the overdraft limit on his account.
background
Mr M says his received  a letter  from Lloyds telling him that his overdraft limit was being  
reduced from £4,500  to £800. He says that decision was unfair and that Lloyds should have 
spoken to him before  making  that decision.  Mr M would like Lloyds to reinstate the original 
overdraft limit and says it should be up to him to decide if he wanted to keep  the original 
limit.
Lloyds says it acted  in line with the account  terms and conditions  and gave  Mr M one 
months notice that it intended to reduce the overdraft limit. It says it takes a number of 
factors into account when  making such decisions and says Mr M is able to apply for a new 
overdraft limit if he wishes.  Lloyds says in any event Mr M hasnt used his overdraft over the 
last 12 months.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator  didnt think Lloyds had made a mistake 
or acted  unfairly.  The adjudicator thought Lloyds had given Mr M one months  notice, in line 
with the account terms and conditions, that it intended to reduce the limit and those terms 
and conditions allowed  Lloyds  to review an overdraft limit.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and remains unhappy  with Lloyds decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr M will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
Ive looked at Mr Ms account  terms and conditions which I think  he would  have agreed  to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied those terms and conditions  allow  Lloyds to 
review the overdraft limit and, if it wishes, to reduce that limit by giving  one months notice.
Im satisfied thats what has happened here, that Lloyds has reviewed  the account and given 
Mr M the correct notice period. So I dont think Lloyds has made a mistake and Im also 
satisfied its up to a business to make  decisions on these  sorts of matters when exercising its 
commercial judgement and its not something I can fairly  interfere in. In any event I can see 
from Mr Ms account  statements over the last year that hes not used the overdraft facility 
and over the last few years only infrequently.
I appreciate Mr M says it should  be up to him to decide on such matters. But Im satisfied,  for 
the reasons Ive explained, I think its up to Lloyds  to make such decisions.
Im satisfied that overall Lloyds has acted fairly here and has explained what Mr M needs  to 
do if he wishes to apply  to increase  the overdraft limit
Ref: DRN06579042my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0657904