K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Tandem Bank Limited (Tandem)  when 
he tried to register his credit card on various websites only for it to fail. Despite calling 
Tandem and being reassured  the issue had been  fixed, the problem persisted. Mr C is 
seeking compensation for his wasted  time and effort,  Tandems failure to reply  to his 
complaint, as well an explanation  for the problem.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr C and Tandem so I wont  repeat it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
In late 2018 Mr C experienced some difficulties when he was trying to register his credit  
cards on a number of businesses web sites. He called Tandem and was told by their agents  
that the problem did not lay with them. The agents  Mr C spoke to tried removing all fraud 
and security checks to check whether the error was theirs, but even though they did that 
they could find no fault. The agents also thought  that the fault could  be because the details 
the merchant  had didnt match Tandems which had then triggered the security system  and 
blocked the transaction. Mr C disputed this explanation and thought Tandems  systems  were 
not fit for purpose.
Tandem did accept that when this type of problem occurs their system will normally send a 
text message to the customer with a pass code  to use, but on this occasion it didnt because 
of a system error. In the light of that error Tandem offered Mr C £50 compensation.
Tandem also said that they had replied  to Mr C by letter on the 15 February 2019 and so 
didnt accept they had done  anything wrong. Mr C was unhappy with Tandems response 
and so the investigator looked into the complaint.  He thought that the most likely  explanation 
for the difficulties Mr C experienced was that the information the merchant had didnt match  
that which Tandem  held, and as such didnt  think Tandem had therefore acted unfairly. But, 
he thought there had been a failing in the level of service because Tandem had failed to 
provide a text passcode. As such he thought  the compensation offered to Mr C should be 
£100. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate. Im 
not the industry regulator, and I dont  have power to make rules  for financial businesses, 
direct that they change  their processes, or punish them. That is for the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
I need to consider whether Tandem  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C. I 
aim to address  all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the evidence before me. I take into account both sides  views. But, where evidence 
is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory, then I have to come  to a decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  I consider what is more likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances of the case. 
Ref: DRN01619402Mr C told our investigator that the information  the merchant had sent was slightly different. 
This of course means that it was not exactly the same as that which Tandem held, so on the 
balance of probabilities I think this is the most likely  reason  for the problem which arose.  I 
understand how this would  lead to the difficulties  Mr C faced, but thats not the fault of 
Tandems systems. So in this respect I cant say Tandem has done  anything wrong.
Tandem have also provided evidence that they did send a response to Mr Cs complaint in 
February 2019. I appreciate Mr C did not receive it and I have no reason to doubt him when 
he says he didnt. Equally I have  no reason to doubt  Tandem when they say they sent it. So 
Im satisfied that Tandem  did respond to Mr Cs complaint.
Tandem have accepted their failings in so far as not sending out a passcode  and have 
offered £50 compensation to Mr C. I know Mr C feels this is too low and has asked for £500  
based on all the time and wasted effort he has had. So, the sole issue  is what the correct 
level of compensation  ought to be. I would agree with our investigator that the £50 offer of 
compensation made to Mr C was too low and that £100 is a more  fair and reasonable sum. It 
is in line with the awards this service would make  for distress and inconvenience in 
circumstances like these, and I think it is enough to put matters  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do uphold the complaint against Tandem. 
So my decision is that Tandem Bank Ltd should  pay £100  to Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0161940