K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC unfairly rejected two 
claims he made under his minor  damage protection insurance policy.
All references to Amtrust include its agents.
background
When Mr M bought his car, he bought  a minor  damage protection  policy.  In November 2018  
Mr M made two claims for two incidents  that had happened in October  and November 2018. 
Amtrust rejected both claims. Our investigator  thought Amtrust  acted  reasonably by rejecting 
the first claim as it wasnt  covered under Mr Ms policy.  Mr M accepted this. 
But she thought  Amtrusts  policy wasnt clear  enough to justify  its decision to reject Mr Ms 
claim from November  2018. So she recommended  Amtrust reconsider this claim.  
Mr M believed the policy  was mis-sold to him and said he wanted a premium refund. Our 
investigator explained that as Amtrust  didnt  sell the policy to Mr M, hed need  to raise his 
complaint about  that with the business  which sold it to him.
Amtrust didnt agree  with the investigators  view. So the case  has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key term under Mr Ms policy with Amtrust says; 
In the event that you suffer damage during the period of cover  to the bodywork of 
your vehicle, including wing mirrors  and bumpers which falls within  a 30cm  diameter 
and can be repaired using  minor damage repair  techniques, see definition below, we 
will cover the cost of the repairs up to £1,000  per individual claim. 
It defines minor damage  repair as; one where a technician can complete a repair  within two 
hours using  minor damage repair techniques  (also  known  as small medium  area repair 
techniques) and will be to industry standards and best endeavours. 
But it excludes cover  if the damage is greater than 30cm in diameter  and covering more  
than 2 body panels.
Mr M provided photos of the minor damage  to his car under his second claim. He said this 
damage happened in a car park in November 2018.  The damage is in two areas very close 
to each other. Separately  the measurements  of the damage are less than 30cm  diameter  
each. But together  they come to over 30cm. Mr M said hed asked Amtrust if he could  claim 
for one of the scratches   but Amtrust said he couldnt because  both were caused in the 
same incident and therefore had to be treated as one claim. So because the damage under 
the one claim exceeds 30cm diameter, Amtrust said it correctly rejected Mr Ms claim.
Ref: DRN08388242I dont think Amtrusts policy terms are clear about how the damage should  be measured  if 
there are two areas  of damage  from one incident. I dont think  Amtrusts interpretation is 
what a consumer would reasonably expect  when reading the policy terms.
The two separate areas of damage  are under 30cm each - so I dont think  Amtrust can fairly 
rely on the exclusion to reject the claim for this reason. And from the photos, the damage 
doesnt appear to cover  more than two body  panels. So I think  Amtrust should deal with 
Mr Ms November  2018 claim for damage to the passenger side wheel arch area under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to deal with Mr Ms claim for damage caused  in November 2018 under 
the remaining  terms and conditions of his policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0838824