K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain because Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) hasnt paid a 
curtailment claim  under  their travel  insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs D held a travel  insurance policy, underwritten by ERV.
Unfortunately Mrs D fell while on holiday and, as a result, Mr and Mrs D missed the rest of
their planned  itinerary.
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim under  their policy for medical expenses and their unused
holiday costs.
ERV paid the medical expenses claim but said Mr and Mrs Ds claim for unused costs wasnt
covered because the curtailment section of their policy only pays  for any additional
expenses in returning to the UK.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and originally said she thought  ERV was entitled
to decline Mr and Mrs Ds curtailment claim. However after considering further  information
from Mr and Mrs D she changed her opinion  and said she thought the limited  curtailment
cover available under ERVs policy  was unusual and should  have been highlighted to
Mr and Mrs D. She therefore recommended that ERV should settle Mr and Mrs Ds claim as
if the curtailment  section of their policy did cover the missed proportion of their trip.
ERV didnt agree with our investigators  opinion  but said it was prepared  to pay 50% of the
curtailment claim  as a gesture of goodwill. However, Mr and Mrs D didnt accept this offer so
the complaint  was passed to me.
I sent my provisional decision about this case in April 2019.  In it, I said;
Section 6  Curtailment of Mr and Mrs Ds policy  says cover is provided  for the following if
the policyholder  needs  to return home before  the trips scheduled return date;
All reasonable additional travel expenses incurred by You in returning to Your  home
address in the United Kingdom  where such return is urgently necessitated...
I understand Mr D didnt return home earlier than planned  and Mrs D returned one day
earlier than originally scheduled. But I think it would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances for ERV to consider their holiday  as being effectively curtailed from the point
of Mrs Ds accident.
There was a very specific, dominant purpose  to the whole of Mr and Mrs Ds trip. Given the
nature of Mrs Ds injury, and the fact she returned to the UK via an alternative  means  of
transport, Im satisfied she was unable to participate  in the rest of the planned itinerary. And I
dont think it would have  been fair or reasonable to expect Mr D to carry on with the rest of
the trip as originally  booked without his wife.
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ds policy dont cover the unused costs  theyre
Ref: DRN06769212claiming for. But I also need to consider whether I think ERV has fairly and reasonably
applied these policy terms to Mr and Mrs Ds claim. And, in the circumstances, I dont think it
has.
Mr D has pointed out the cover ERV provides  for curtailment differs  from that of many other
insurers. I agree with what Mr D has said. Most  other travel insurance  policies  which Ive
seen provide cover for unused, prepaid  expenses (such as accommodation, meals  and
excursions) which the policyholder cant recover from another source if a holiday is cut short.
So, I think the limited  cover provided  under  the curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ds policy
is unusual. ERV is entitled to decide  what level of cover it wishes  to provide under its
policies. But I think it would be fair for an unusual limitation like this to have been clearly
highlighted to Mr and Mrs D at the point of sale before  they entered into the contract with
ERV, so they could  make  an informed decision about whether or not to buy the policy.
Ive looked at the sales information ERV has provided. I cant  see the sales process contains
any mention of this limitation. The sales process contains a link to the Key Facts document.
But the Key Facts document doesnt  contain any mention of this limitation either.
The limitation also isnt mentioned within the schedule of benefits set out in the policy terms
and conditions. Instead, the policyholder has to look at page 22 of the policy  documents to
find out what is covered  under the curtailment section.
ERV has mentioned Mr and Mrs D had a cooling-off period within which  to check  the policy
was suitable for them.  However, for the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont think  this is a
fair stance  for ERV to take.  And Ive borne in mind insurance industry  guidance which says
cancellation rights  dont affect  what  information  it is appropriate for insurers to give to a
customer to enable them to make an informed decision.
Mr and Mrs D have said if theyd realised the extent of the curtailment cover under their
policy theyd have looked for insurance elsewhere. So, Im satisfied  Mr and Mrs D wouldnt
have bought this policy if the limitation had been clearly highlighted to them.
This means  I dont  think its fair or reasonable for ERV to rely on the policy terms and
conditions to turn down  Mr and Mrs Ds curtailment claim in the circumstances.
So I said I intended to uphold the complaint and to recommend that ERV should accept 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim.  
Mr and Mrs D accepted  my provisional decision. ERV responded to say it feels the 
curtailment cover provided is clearly set out in Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the level of cover  is 
reflected in the premium paid. ERV also referred again to the cooling-off  period under the 
policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what ERV has said in response to my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN06769213I understand the terms and conditions of the policy set out the limits of the curtailment cover  
provided, and the price  of the policy may reflect the level of cover  which ERV has decided to 
offer. But I think the limitation in question is unusual  and it wasnt  highlighted to Mr and 
Mrs D before the contract was entered into. Ive already addressed ERVs argument about  
the cooling-off period. 
So I wont  be changing my provisional  findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Europaische Reiseversicherung AG must treat Mr and Mrs Ds trip as having  been 
effectively curtailed from the date of Mrs Ds accident and accept their claim for unused, 
prepaid expenses  which cant  be recovered  from another source under the curtailment 
section of their policy. This is subject  to any applicable limit and/or excess.   
Interest should  also be paid on the settlement amount at 8% simple  per year from the date of 
the claim until the date the settlement is paid1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
1 If Europaische Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs D how much it has taken off. It should  
also give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0676921