K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a secured personal loan with Halifax in 2004 and the PPI was added 
to their account at around the same  time.  They paid a monthly  amount for the policy.  It 
wouldve covered  their loan repayments  for up to 12 months if Mr W lost his job and for up to 
60 months if he was off work because of sickness or an accident.
Mr and Mrs W say theyve never knowingly  taken  out PPI with any financial products. They  
say they werent  aware it had been  added to their loan. And they say they didnt need it 
because theyve always been in full-time employment with the associated benefits  of long-
term sick pay and decent redundancy  payouts.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs W 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely Halifax made Mr and Mrs W aware  the PPI was optional and they agreed to 
it knowing they didnt  have to. I say this because on the loan agreement  they signed  there  
were Yes and No options  next to the question: Do you want Personal  Loan Repayments 
Insurance?.  The Yes  option has been  typed with a cross. The agreement,  including  the X 
saying Yes  to PPI, has been pre-populated. But I think its likely to reflect discussions       
Mr and Mrs W had at the time with Halifax. And I would have expected them  to read the 
agreement  which included their agreement to take out quite a significant loan  carefully 
and to query anything  that wasnt right. Ive seen nothing to suggest they did this in relation  
to the PPI, which is clearly being  taken out in addition to the loan.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to make  sure it was right for 
them. From what  they say of their circumstances at the time and the policy details Halifax 
has given us, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr W was eligible  for the PPI. And I dont think he wouldve been affected by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover, for example any unusual  employment terms 
or known  medical conditions. So there was nothing to stop him claiming  on the PPI if 
hed needed  to.
Ref: DRN05419272Mr and Mrs W say Mr W wouldve got good  sick pay from his employer if he was 
unwell. And they also say they had some  savings they could fall back  on. But, as Ive 
said, I think Mr and Mrs W agreed to the cover and I think theyd have done this 
knowing their circumstances.  The PPI wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Ws loan 
repayments for up to 12 months  if Mr W lost his job and for up to 60 months if he had 
an accident or became  too ill to work.  And this wouldve  been  in addition  to his sick 
pay. So I think the PPI gave them useful  protection.
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement. So I think  Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve understood how much theyd need to pay for it. And I havent seen anything 
to make me think the cover was unaffordable  for them. 
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs W, Halifax  also had to give them 
enough clear information  about  it so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its possible 
some of the information  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  been. But 
for the reasons Ive given  above about why I think the policy was right for them,  I dont think 
clearer information (if it had been needed) wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs W buying it. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of anything Halifax may have done wrong, 
so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0541927