K820x#14complaint
Mr J says St Andrews Insurance Plc, mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr J bought the policy in 2001 around  the same time as he took out a loan for a car. 
The policy was paid for with monthly  premiums of £38.76. It covered Mr J against not being 
able to work due to an accident or sickness. In the event of a successful claim it could have 
paid a monthly benefit of £331.65  for up to 12 months. Itd also pay the outstanding balance 
if Mr J died.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr J has said the PPI was sold to him as part of a package with the car loan and it wasnt 
made clear it was optional.
Ive thought about this but the Mr J applied for the car loan and the funds were released to 
him on 25 June 2001. St Andrews has sent us a copy of a letter  titled  CreditCare  Plus 
Acceptance Form.
The form gives brief details of the cover  and sets out the monthly premium and the monthly 
benefit.
The form made it clear that the PPI cover  could not begin until the form was completed and 
returned. I can see that Mr J completed the direct debit and signed it on 6 July 2001. I can 
also see that it was received  by St Andrews  on 10 July 2001.
So when Mr J completed and signed  the direct debit and returned  it to St Andrews his loan 
had already been agreed and the funds released.
Taking all this into account I think its most likely  Mr J completed  the form to take out PPI  
knowing he could have  the loan without it. Although I can understand why he may not 
remember after so many years.
Mr J took out the PPI by post.  Ive not seen anything  that suggests  he spoke to St Andrews  
about PPI before completing the application.  So I dont think St Andrews  advised  Mr J to buy 
the policy. This means it didnt have to make  sure it was right for him. But it did need to 
make sure Mr J had enough information to make a decision  about  whether PPI was right for 
him.
Ref: DRN00580532Its possible that St Andrews didnt  give all the information it should  have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr J would have 
changed his mind about buying the policy if hed been given better or clearer information.        
I cant say he would  have  done. 
Mr J was working and was eligible for the policy. Mr J wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions in the policy that couldve made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim. For 
instance hes told us he didnt have any medical conditions  that wouldnt be covered.
In the questionnaire  Mr J completed for this service he said that he had no sick pay as he 
was self-employed  and had no other  means  to make  the repayments if he was unable to 
work. So I think Mr J would  have  found the policy useful if he became too unwell to work. 
I understand Mr J later recalled that he did have insurance policies in place but was unable 
to provide us with any details so I cant fairly take these into account.
Mr J has asked to see a copy of the loan agreement.  But owing to the time that has elapsed  
there is not a legible copy  available.  But that doesnt  make  me think  the policy was sold as 
part of a package. I say this as the CreditCare acceptance form was sent after the loan was 
arranged and if it had been sold together with the loan I think  all the paperwork would likely 
have been completed together.
Overall I think  St Andrews couldve given Mr J better information about  the policy. But I think  
Mr J was interested in this type of cover, and it seems to have been  right for him. So I dont 
think clearer information wouldve stopped him buying it.
Ive taken into account Mr Js comments,  but these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint, and I make no award against           
St Andrews  Insurance Plc.
  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0058053