K820x#14complaint
Miss V complains  that Admiral Insurance Company Limited took too long to deal with a claim 
she made on her motor insurance  policy and provided her with poor service overall.  
background
Miss Vs car was damaged in a collision  with another  vehicle in January 2018. Garage C - 
one of Admirals approved  repairers - did the repair work. When  Miss V collected the car, 
she noted there were  faults with it. Garage C did more work on the car in March 2018,  but 
Miss V said further repairs were  needed. 
In May 2018, Admiral  asked an independent assessor to review  the repairs.  He agreed that 
further work  was necessary. Miss V didnt want the car to go back  to garage  C, so she got 
an estimate from another garage. The assessor  said the new estimate was inflated. He said 
garage C and the other garage should discuss the repairs to agree on a price.
Meanwhile, Miss V had found  further faults with the car. As the cost of repairs wasnt agreed, 
Admiral asked the assessor  what sum in lieu of repairs he thought  it should  offer Miss V. 
She didnt  accept the sum he proposed and said shed get more estimates. In the end, 
Admiral took her car to another garage  for an estimate and gave Miss V a hire car. Shortly 
afterwards, garage C offered to buy Miss Vs car from her, due to the problems it had 
caused. And it offered her a courtesy  car whilst she replaced her own car. Admiral also 
offered to buy Miss Vs car. She accepted garage  Cs offer.
Miss V remained unhappy with the time taken to deal with her claim, the poor repairs and the 
service from garage C and from Admiral. Admiral  accepted all the points set out in Miss Vs 
complaint to it. It offered her £400 compensation for trouble and upset, plus a further £50 for 
the time it took to deal with her complaint. Miss V said she also wanted  to be paid the 
difference between  the cost of petrol she used in the hire / courtesy cars and the diesel 
shed have used  in her own car. She wanted the £80 fee for removing  her cherished 
registration plates,  plus the cost of getting  to the garage to collect  items from the car as well.  
One of our investigators  assessed Miss Vs complaint. She thought  Admirals  settlement of 
the claim was reasonable. She didnt  think it should  pay for the fuel Miss V wanted,  because 
under the policy  she wasnt  entitled  to a like-for like car. Admiral said it wouldnt pay her any 
more. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral accepts it took too long to finalise Miss Vs claim and that its service  was poor. The 
repairs should have  been done properly the first time - and all the later problems stemmed 
from the fact that they werent.  I understand Miss Vs frustration that the garage didnt rectify 
matters properly when  given the chance. Admirals file shows that delays were also caused 
by the independent  assessor, despite Admiral regularly chasing him.   
Miss V was given a courtesy car or a hire car each time her car was off the road.  She was 
only entitled to a standard courtesy  car under the policy, but Miss V said she didnt want a 
Ref: DRN00806062car with a manual gearbox. Admiral and garage C complied with that request - although it 
wasnt something they were obliged  to do  and Miss V benefitted from that action. 
I dont think Admiral should have to pay Miss V the difference between the diesel shed have 
bought for her own car and the petrol she had to buy for the courtesy / hire cars.  The policy 
didnt provide for a replacement diesel vehicle similar to Miss Vs car, so her fuel costs  were 
always likely to be different.  
I think Miss V faced a good deal of trouble and upset, largely due to the poor repairs  by the 
garage and the time taken to deal with the claim. So I think  the question  is whether Admiral 
did enough to try to put matters right. 
Admiral didnt have  to offer to buy Miss Vs car from her, nor did garage  C. The independent 
assessor said it was repairable for just over £1,000. But they both did so to try to make up 
for the upset Miss V had faced and to limit further  inconvenience for her. Garage C didnt 
have to offer her a courtesy car in October  2018,  as her car wasnt then being repaired by it. 
It looks as though Admiral  may have kept her in hire if it hadnt. Garage C also provided a 
car to Miss V in November 2018. She kept it for three weeks  whilst looking for a new car. 
I think it was of great help to Miss V to have the offers to buy her car from Admiral and from 
the garage. I think it was also of much benefit  to her to be offered the courtesy cars.  
Although Admiral paid Miss V £450 compensation as well, she wanted another  £250 for the 
stress and anxiety shed  faced. She hasnt commented on Admirals decision not to pay the 
£80 fee for the cherished plate removal or for the trip to the garage. 
I think its usual for consumers to take any personal  items  from their car before it goes in for 
repair or assessment.  So I dont  think Miss Vs trip to the garage is something that Admiral  
should have to compensate her for. The £80 fee is an expense  that wouldnt have been  
incurred had the repairs been  done  properly. In other circumstances,  I might  have said 
Admiral should pay more compensation to reflect that. But given all the steps Admiral  has 
taken to try to resolve  the complaint, I dont think it should be required to do more.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Miss V to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0080606