K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mrs W says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs W says PPI wasnt mentioned during the sale and she didnt know she had taken it 
out until much later.
Barclays has sent us a copy of Mrs Ws application  form for the credit  card.  This included  a 
section on PPI with yes and no boxes to be ticked  to show whether she wanted to take it 
out. And the yes  box has been  ticked.
Consumers have a responsibility to read any documents  before  signing them.  If Mrs W didnt 
want the PPI, I think she could have ticked the no box. And if Mrs W didnt agree with what  
the form said, she shouldnt have signed  it.
So based  on the evidence I have, I think Barclays did make it clear  to Mrs W that she had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Mrs W chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
While Mrs W may not have remembered  about  the PPI some years later, this doesnt 
necessarily mean she wasnt aware  of it during  the sale. And, as Ive explained above, I 
think Barclays did make  her aware of it during the sale.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs W, so it had to check that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been  entitled 
to sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her friends  and family to make 
her repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Barclays had to give Mrs W clear information  about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have  been  useful for 
Mrs W if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put Mrs W off taking  it out.
Ref: DRN07612092My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0761209