K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from Metro Bank PLC.
background
Mr P has raised a number  of complaint points against Metro Bank PLC. In summary hes 
unhappy that;
On the 7 November 2018 he received a message from Metro asking him to contact 
its fraud team about a transaction  that had been attempted from his account some  
five weeks earlier. 
Following this incident he was advised  to visit his local branch to get a new debit 
card. He did this, but a transaction he tried to make online on the 12 November 2018 
was blocked. He contacted Metro but it said that it couldnt see any reason for his 
card not to work.  The call then got disconnected. However on the 20 November  2018  
Metros fraud team  contacted  him to ask if hed authorised this payment, suggesting 
that it had been  blocked by Metro.
On the 20 March 2019 a transaction he tried to make online using his card was 
declined. He contacted Metro but it wasnt able to confirm  it had stopped  the payment 
or tell him why this happened. 
In April 2019 Metro  said that it couldnt  record notes on his account to advise  that he 
would be travelling  abroad.  And that he would need to have access to his registered  
telephone number whilst he was away incase it needed to contact him about any 
transactions that flagged as suspicious.
Metro offered Mr P a total of £40 compensation to resolve these complaints. But Mr P didnt 
accept its offers and referred these issues to our service. 
During the course of our investigators enquiries  Metro increased its offer of compensation 
by £20. But our investigator  felt it should pay Mr P a total of £200 compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service it provided to him here.  Whilst she 
didnt think Metro had done anything wrong by not adding  travel notes to Mr Ps account, she 
said it hadnt sufficiently  notified him that his transactions had been blocked. 
Metro said it was prepared to pay £150 compensation to settle the complaint. But it thought 
£200 was too high as it had acted correctly when  it blocked the transactions.
Mr P wasnt  willing to accept its offer of £150  compensation.  So the case has been passed 
to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive reached broadly the same 
conclusions as our investigator  did here.
Ref: DRN08957882The majority of this complaint relates to the service  provided by Metro  when it blocked 
several transactions made by Mr P. Metro has advised that these transactions were  blocked 
by its system which flags suspicious payments. 
Banks and financial  businesses are required to have  processes and procedures in place to 
help protect customers accounts.  And I can see that in its terms and conditions Metro  
explains that it has systems to identify  unusual transactions, and that it may contact a 
customer if there is suspicious  activity on an account. 
Metro hasnt been able to confirm exactly why its system flagged  these transactions as 
suspicious. And it says there are a number of reasons why this might have happened. 
I appreciate Mr P wants to know more  about  why it stopped  these payments. But I wouldnt 
expect Metro to share specific details  of its security measures. And thinking about  the 
circumstances in which they were made, I dont find it unusual that Metros systems  flagged 
them. And Im satisfied that Metro was acting in Mr Ps best interests when it did this. 
However Mr P has raised concerns about the length of time it took for it to tell him that it had 
done this - even  though on two occasions he contacted it to query  what had happened.
In the case of the most recent transaction, although Metro wasnt able to confirm it had 
stopped the payment when Mr P first called, it has shown us that it tried unsuccessfully  to 
contact him the next day to let him know. However there were respective delays of 5 weeks 
and 8 days before it got in touch with him about  the other two failed transactions. And whilst  I 
wouldnt necessarily expect Metro  to contact a customer  immediately, I do agree with our 
investigator that these  delays were unreasonably long. Especially as Mr P had called it about 
the latter incident over a week earlier.
Metro says the team who deal with these  transactions was experiencing a large backlog in 
October and November 2018.  And that its likely  this is the reason  for the delay in it getting in 
contact with Mr P. 
I appreciate businesses have busy periods. And I note Mr P hasnt suggested that hes 
suffered any direct financial loss as a consequence  of what  happened. But I can understand 
why hes concerned that Metro took so long to notify  him about activity  on his account  that it 
felt was suspicious. Especially as hes said that he hadnt made  the first transaction himself.  
And why hes frustrated that, on more than one occasion when he contacted  it about a failed 
transaction, Metro  wasnt able to confirm what had happened. Mr P has told us that because 
of this he no longer  feels able to use his Metro account. 
Additionally I note Metro  has agreed  that it could  have provided Mr P with better service  
when he called. And that its apologised for failing to call him back  after his call was cut off 
on the 12 November  2018. 
Mr P is also upset that Metro didnt  add notes to his account to advise that he would be 
travelling abroad when he asked it to. I understand he wanted it to do this to try and reduce 
the risk of further  payments  being blocked.  But Metro has advised that its process  is not to 
add details like this to a customers record, and instead to contact  them in the event that it 
needs to discuss  any of the activity  on their account. 
Ref: DRN08957883I can understand why, given the previous problems hed experienced, Mr P doubted that 
Metro would get in touch  if it blocked  a transaction. I also appreciate  that in the past Metros 
procedure was to add travel notes.  And Mr P has suggested it initially told him it could do 
this here.  However  I cant say that Metro acted unfairly by following its current process 
correctly in this instance.  And I dont have the power  to ask it make changes  to its processes 
and procedures. So I havent upheld this particular part of Mr Ps complaint, or taken the 
upset this caused him into account  when considering the level of compensation Metro has 
offered here.
Metro has said that its willing  to pay Mr P £150  by way of apology for the level of service he 
received in relation to the blocked transactions. But Mr P wants it to pay the £200 
recommended by our investigator. 
As Ive explained, I dont  think  Metro acted unreasonably by blocking  these  payments. But 
its clear the poor service it provided  after this caused  Mr P unnecessary inconvenience and 
frustration. So overall I think  our investigators recommendation that it should pay him £200 
compensation is reasonable in these  individual circumstances. I say this because  of the 
cumulative effect  of the problems Mr P experienced here.
my final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr P a total of £200 compensation by 
way of apology  for the poor service  it provided  to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0895788