K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Mr A says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mr As credit card agreement.  This included a section on PPI, 
with a box to be ticked and a space for Mr A to sign, if he wanted to take out PPI. And the 
box has been ticked and Mr A has signed  in the space.
Halifax has also sent us a copy of Mr As application  form for the credit  card,  which has a 
box to be crossed to show whether Mr A wanted to take out PPI. And there is a cross in the 
box.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Halifax made  it clear  to Mr A that he had 
a choice about the PPI. And that Mr A chose  to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr A, so it had to check that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example, he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  And the policy  couldve 
paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve  received full sick pay.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr A off taking it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr A.
Ref: DRN05642782my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0564278