K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about the fees charged  by Phoenix Wealth  Services Limited 
(Phoenix) in relation to her self invested personal pension  (SIPP). Shes  also unhappy that 
she cant access the value of an illiquid investment  held in the SIPP.  
background
Mrs H has a SIPP with Phoenix. In 2009,  on advice from her financial adviser, Mrs H 
invested some of her SIPP fund in a Stirling Mortimer investment (the Stirling  Mortimer UK 
Land Fund Number 8). 
By June  2016  Mrs H wanted to access her pension funds. But she wasnt able to withdraw  
the money shed  invested in the Stirling Mortimer  Fund because it was illiquid.  
Mrs H complained to Phoenix. As she couldnt encash her investment her SIPP remained 
open and she continued to incur  charges. Phoenix  confirmed it couldnt  release the value of 
Mrs Hs investment due to illiquidity  which was outside of its control. In light of this, it had to 
keep the SIPP account open  and continue to report on the investment, and in doing  so it 
would deduct  its charges  as outlined in its terms and conditions.  
One of adjudicators investigated the complaint.  He didnt  uphold it. He said Phoenix hadnt 
given the advice to invest and had acted reasonably in its role as a SIPP provider. Given  that 
the SIPP account had to remain  open  to hold the illiquid investment, Phoenix  was obliged to 
continue reporting  on it and so could deduct  its charges in line with the terms and conditions 
which had been  agreed. 
The adjudicator accepted  the situation wasnt ideal  but the position Mrs H was in was always  
a risk with the type of investment shed taken  out, and this shouldve  been explained to her 
by her adviser. 
Mrs H didnt agree. Amongst other things she said shed instructed Phoenix to close  the 
SIPP and refund the money. Phoenix had no right to withhold the money and keep 
deducting its fees. Shed retired and she couldnt see that shed ever get her money back. 
Mrs H wanted us to order  Phoenix to close her SIPP and return  her money to her.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs husband has made a similar complaint about his SIPP  provider. As in the main  the 
issues are the same  theres  some overlap between what Ive said on both complaints. 
I have considerable  sympathy for Mrs H. Shes unable to realise the value of her holding as 
the Stirling Mortimer Fund is illiquid.  Not only is she being kept out of that money but the 
illiquid asset means  that her SIPP cant be wound up and shell continue to incur charges for 
the foreseeable future. 
Sometimes in this sort of situation  where weve looked into a complaint against the adviser  
who recommended  the investment and upheld  that complaint, well include in our award a 
payment to meet the SIPP providers  on going fees.  Thats on the basis  that the SIPP cant 
Ref: DRN09550132be closed because of the illiquid investment which the consumer wouldnt have had if shed 
been given suitable advice.
But thats as against the adviser, not the SIPP operator. Im only considering here a 
complaint against  Phoenix as the SIPP provider/operator. 
We can only make an award against Phoenix if we think it has done  something wrong. I can 
understand why Mrs H feels shes being  unfairly treated. But Phoenix isnt responsible for 
the suitability of the investment  it wasnt made  on Phoenixs advice. 
Sometimes a SIPP operator will be prepared to write off a particular investment as having 
no value. Thats where its clear that the investment has failed and no funds will be available 
to return to investors. Similarly where  a fund has been wound up and any final distribution  
has been made to investors the SIPP can then be closed  and further  fees avoided. 
But I dont think thats the situation  here.  Phoenix  has looked into the current  status of the 
Stirling Mortimer Fund  an external investment  which isnt managed by Phoenix and is 
outside its control. Phoenix is satisfied that it continues to have  a value. 
The Fund invests in property and the investment object  was to sell the property portfolio for a 
profit. The aim was to achieve  that by December 2016 but that timescale was extended. 
Mrs H holds shares in the investment. Her shares  can only be redeemed when the Funds 
assets are sold and that money is released to investors. It appears that the Fund is being 
actively managed  and efforts are being made  to sell the remaining assets. Phoenix wont be 
able to pay Mrs H the value of her holding (or part thereof)  unless  and until payment is 
received from the Fund. 
Phoenix has explained that in the meantime it still has to undertake work in connection with 
Mrs Hs SIPP (although  as there  isnt enough money  in the SIPP  to pay them the fees are 
deferred until cash is received).
I accept that in the circumstances  outlined above  the SIPP will remain  open. And that 
Phoenix will continue to administer it. So I dont think it is the case that Phoenix is charging 
fees but not doing anything in return.  
On balance, although Mrs Hs situation  is very unfortunate, I cant say that Phoenix is 
responsible for what has happened or is acting  unreasonably. Or that Phoenix isnt entitled  
to continue to charge  fees for continuing to administer Mrs Hs SIPP.  Im also unable to 
agree with Mrs H that Phoenix is required to pay her the value attributed  to her Stirling  
Mortimer investment. Unfortunately Mrs H can only get her money back  as and when the 
Funds assets are sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Im not making any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.   
Ref: DRN09550133Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0955013