K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss B bought  the policy  in 2003  at the same time as taking  a credit card. She applied  for 
the card and PPI at a branch meeting. Miss B was employed at the time as a post office  
worker. Shes told us shed been there  for two years. She cant remember  her work benefits, 
but from whats she told us of her length  of service I think she was entitled to statutory 
sickness and redundancy pay. Miss B has told us she didnt have any other means with 
which to pay her card if she couldnt work and that she was in good health at the time.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and also had life 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful unemployment  or disability 
claim, it offered to repay 5% of Miss Bs credit card balance each month for 11 months and 
clear her outstanding balance if the claim lasted 12 months. The life cover would, subject to 
its terms, clear  the account  balance  on death.  Lloyds has told us the policy  at the time cost 
no more than 79p per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance  and the premium  would  
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim and did attract interest.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the credit  card account closed in 2006.  
Miss Bs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf. I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Miss Bs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss B wouldnt have taken 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Miss Bs representatives believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Miss B about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss B and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
The information Miss B received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN05498622opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Bs. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN05498623The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Bs 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Bs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss B suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss B and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss B know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Miss B has said she had no interest  in PPI 
and says it was just included on her card as part of the package.  But her card application 
form had boxes to tick to say either Yes or No to the PPI. By the No box it says:  If you do 
not wish to protect your payments, tick no. On Miss Bs form, which she signed,  the Yes  
box is ticked. I think she wouldve known  No could be ticked  instead  if she didnt want  the 
cover. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Miss B knew the policy was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN05498624did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Miss B has said Lloyds didnt give advice. But 
if Lloyds did give advice,  it had to do more. With this in mind, I think its fair to proceed on the 
basis that Lloyds  provided advice. This means Lloyds had to advise Miss B with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs  
and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss B. There is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Miss Bs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Miss B would  have been  caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
her needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Miss B had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Lloyds did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss B given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss B met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Miss B had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  her ability to continue to meet  her card 
repayments would have been  put under strain if she was not working for an extended 
period  even  allowing for the statutory  work  benefits she was entitled to. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss B. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which would have made  it difficult  for her to 
claim. And she hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
affected her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover  for 
mental health or back problems.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss B.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Bs circumstances 
and the fact the policy couldve  cleared her outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN05498625Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss B was given a very broad description  of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, that the policy would protect  her card payments in 
the event she was unable to work through disability or unemployment).  Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss B would  have been  told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss B would have taken the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was. Also the application form she signed  said the cover was 
so you can continue to meet your minimum credit  card payments  even  if you cant  work  due 
to accident, sickness  or unemployment which would have given her some  idea of what  
the policy was for. Im also satisfied Miss B wouldve realised the policy  wasnt free and its 
likely she wouldve had some understanding of how much it cost before agreeing to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss B 
agreed to take the policy. Even  if that information  were in a leaflet or policy summary Miss B 
might have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based  her decision on the 
things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss B, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Miss B all the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Bs representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Bs representative considers to be poor value   and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Miss B has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
Ref: DRN05498626what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Miss B? To what extent did Miss B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss B, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss B would have  acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken the policy  in any 
event.
Miss B says she would not have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  I have considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Miss B had some interest  in taking PPI. By this I mean  
that when Lloyds offered the PPI or advised her there was a suitable product she could buy 
that would  protect  her card payments in the event she was unable to work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. But she made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she thought she was getting is 
not exactly what she got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Bs circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss B ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Miss B 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims for illness or injury  occurring within 12 months of the start if 
related to a health issue Miss B knew or shouldve known about at the start or for which 
shed seen  or arranged to see a medical practitioner in the 12 months before the start;
Ref: DRN05498627The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Miss B wasnt 
a permanent  employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim Miss B be unable to do 
her own job or any work which  in the insurers view she was or might reasonably become 
qualified for in view of her education, training and ability.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss B pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss B from taking the policy.
But, the evidence  about Miss Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss B didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think  she still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Miss B 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Miss B had known  she could only claim for disability if she were  not only unable to do her 
own job but also unable  to do any job which the insurer thought she was or might reasonably 
become qualified for in view of her education,  training and ability, it might have played  into 
her thinking  about  what  to do. And I accept it may have given her pause  for thought   
although given  Miss Bs circumstances,  on balance I think she would  still have been  
interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Miss B would  still have  taken  the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to what  she 
thought she was getting and I think the policy couldve  provided  a useful benefit in a difficult  
time, notwithstanding her statutory employment benefits  and taking  into account her lack of 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that she would 
have taken the policy in any event.  
Miss Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. 
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
Ref: DRN05498628were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  that the position  
Miss B found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Miss B wouldnt  have taken  the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  the 
PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Miss B compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Miss B thinks Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Bs representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss B and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss B in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN05498629Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0549862