K821x#15Complaint
Mr T, who is represented  by his wife, Mrs T, complains that FirstRand Bank Limited refused 
to pay for repairs to a faulty car.
Background
In June 2018 Mr T acquired a second had car costing £19.990 funded  by a deposit of £1,250  
and the balance by a hire purchase  agreement. It was some  six years old and had done  
32,000 miles.
Shortly after acquisition Mr T thought the car wasnt running properly and he took it to be 
inspected. A number  of faults were  identified and Mr T took it to another  garage  and further  
issues were found. He contacted the seller  and FirstRand in September  2018.  The former 
refused to assist and the latter asked for quotes  so it could liaise  with the selling dealer.
Mr T was due to go away on holiday and he had the repairs carried out. This meant  
FirstRand was unable  to be satisfied that the faults  had been present  at the point  of sale.  It 
said that despite unauthorised repairs being  carried out it offered to pay £580 towards the 
cost. It rejected Mr Ts complaint and so the brought the matter to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who initially didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mrs T submitted further evidence and this persuaded him to change  his mind  and 
recommend that FirstRand  cover  the costs for the water pump, drive shaft, brake  discs  and 
horn. He noted  that the problems arose  shortly  after the point of sale and he thought they 
were likely to have  been present at that time.  
Mr T said the cost of replacing  the tyres should be covered  since  the problem with the 
driveshaft had caused them to wear. FirstRand queried the basis on which the investigator 
had changed his mind.  I issued  a provisional decision as follows:
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard  to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards  and codes of 
practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider  to have  been good industry practice at the 
time. 
I said the finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case  is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN01200692Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I identified two keys issues  in this complaint. Firstly, was the car fit for purpose at the point of 
sale and secondly  what has been spent on repairs. Normally I would have expected  the 
dealer to be given  the opportunity to address any faults, but this didnt happen and Mr T 
went ahead  and allowed  the car to be repaired without  authorisation. I gathered  he later sold 
the car and so we were left in a position  whereby it was impossible to have it inspected due 
to it having been repaired and then sold. I said I thought that was regrettable  and I could 
appreciate the stance  taken by FirstRand which owned the car.
However, I reviewed the health check carried out by the main  dealer to which Mr T took the 
car and I could see that the car had issues. The health check  identified that the washer  jets 
werent working, the anti-freeze was contaminated, rear discs  were scored, a wheel bolt was 
missing, undertrays damaged, an exhaust clamp was corroded, the brake  fluid was due to 
be renewed and issues with the tyres.
Mrs T said her husband took it to his garage which  I called S, and it replaced certain parts. 
The invoice from S, which  isnt VAT registered and has no web site, referred  to the removal  
and refitting of parts, an EPA specialist charge and checking of the oil. Mrs T has provided a 
handwritten receipt  for parts, namely,  drive shafts, shock absorbers,  wheel  bearings,  control  
arms and ball joints. This was paid for in cash.  I said I had also seen  an invoice from a VAT 
registered supplier  for a brake disc, a brake  pad set and a ball joint.  This showed the parts  
were to be delivered to S. I said I could only presume these two lots of parts  were  the ones 
fitted by S.
Mrs T had also supplied  a video and photographs of repairs being carried out to a car. 
Unfortunately, these do not identify the car, but I presumed  they were  of the one acquired by 
Mr T. I added that the dates of the various invoices tied in together  with the parts being 
bought shortly before the repair was undertaken.
I considered it more likely than not that the car required  repairs and due to the fact these 
became apparent shortly after acquisition I thought it reasonable to conclude that these were 
present at the point of sale. However,  I explained  that I had seen no explanation  as to why 
the driveshaft  was replaced. This was not identified as an issue  by the main dealer and I 
couldnt see why Mr Ts garage replaced it. I had not seen any explanation which showed 
this was necessary  work. 
I had some concerns  about the claimed costs and the lack of evidence to show that 
driveshaft was faulty at the point  of sale. I gathered Mr T borrowed cash  from his mother  to 
pay for the £920  worth of parts and as she had been ill he had been  unable to provide any 
evidence of this. As for the tyres  I didnt consider these should  be the responsibility of the 
business. Mr T had the opportunity to inspect  these before purchase and I wasnt persuaded 
that any of the other claimed issues were  the cause  of the damage.
In short,  I said I could  accept there  were  some issues with the car and I was able to accept 
that the cost of repairing  those identified by the main dealer should be covered by First 
Rand. I was open to considering the other  costs if persuasive evidence was put forward  to 
show that they were  incurred to repair faults which were present at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN01200693Mrs T responded to say that half the facts in my provisional decision were incorrect, but she 
didnt want to spend any more time on the complaint.  FirstRand  reviewed the history of the 
complaint and noted that it had seen  no evidence that repairs had been carried out as 
suggested by the main  dealer. It listed these  as follows:
Windscreen washer  jets 
Anti-freeze contaminated
NSF wheel  bolt missing
Undertrays damaged
Centre exhaust clamp  corroded
Brake fluid overdue
It also said that Mr T had repairs carried out at an unauthorised third party non-VAT 
registered garage. It doubted some of the evidence put forward  by Mr T and said it had been 
fair in its handling of the complaint and in the payment it had already  made.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T, acting on behalf of her husband  has decided that she doesnt wish to take up my offer 
to supply further evidence in support of the complaint and hasnt explained which  facts  I 
have got wrong.  On that basis there are no grounds  that would allow me to alter my 
provisional decision in favour of Mr T.
FirstRand has outlined the history of the matter and has said that it has tried to support Mr T, 
but he hasnt allowed  it to do so. It referred to its initial offer of £580 to contribute to various 
repairs.
I have reviewed the various submissions again  and I cannot see that I have misunderstood  
the claims put forward by Mr T. I am satisfied that FirstRand has tried to assist  Mr T and I 
consider its offer of £580 was a reasonable response. It is not clear that it has paid this sum, 
but if not, I consider it should do so and that will satisfy my provisional  decision  that the cost 
of the main dealers recommendations  be covered.
My final decision
FirstRand Bank Limited has already made an offer to pay £580 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that FirstRand Bank Limited 
should pay £580, if it not already done so.
My Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0120069