K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Virgin Money plc unfairly and unreasonably disclosed information to 
her former partner. She wants more compensation.
background
Miss B had a mortgage with Virgin, held jointly with her partner.  The relationship ended and 
Miss B contacted Virgin  to change the mortgage into her sole name. She said that she told 
Virgin that thered  been issues with abuse and it promised  to keep her information 
confidential. But Miss B also said that Virgin did disclose information to her former partner 
about the application shed made  to remove him from the mortgage.
Miss B complained to Virgin. It said it had told Miss Bs former  partner  about  the progress of 
her application.  But Virgin pointed out that as a party to the mortgage,  Miss Bs former 
partner was entitled to information about  the mortgage while it was in his name and that it 
didnt give him Miss Bs contact details. It agreed  that it hadnt  given  the same  information to 
Miss B when she found out her former  partner had made a similar application;  Virgin offered 
£250 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss B complained to us, saying that she felt fobbed  off and had been caused  such  
distress that more compensation should  be paid. The investigators view was that Virgin did 
give Miss Bs former partner information about her application, and also had given  Miss B 
conflicting information about whether this was a breach of data protection  law. But the 
investigator said that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable to give the information as both parties  
to a mortgage were  entitled to information. He said the offer made was fair and reasonable.
Miss B disagreed. She pointed out that twice Virgin had refused to give her the same 
information about her former partners application,  and she felt that we had ignored  the 
ICOs view. The investigator said that Virgin had given Miss B conflicting information about  
whether data protection law has been  breached, which  was partly why he thought the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable. Miss B said that she wanted more  
compensation, but also commented on the general handling of her application by Virgin.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Complaints about alleged breach of data 
protection law are for the Information Commissioners Office to consider (ICO)   Miss B 
has already been  in contact with the ICO, but the ICO has refused to speak  to this service  
about the case, but has been dealing with Virgin. It appears that the discussions between  
Virgin and the ICO have concluded but this is an issue outside my role. I can though  look at 
whether Virgin  has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Miss B and her former 
partner and the information that was and wasnt disclosed. I wont look at the application  
itself as Miss B didnt  complain about this when she contacted this service originally.
Ref: DRN09069792Its relevant to note that at the time Virgin spoke  to Miss Bs former partner, he was a party to 
the mortgage and entitled to information. It wasnt unreasonable or unfair for Virgin  to 
confirm that Miss B had made an application or the likely timescales involved, particularly as 
for the application  to complete, Miss Bs former  partner would have to consent  to be 
removed from the mortgage and the title deeds of the property. Provided Virgin didnt 
disclose Miss Bs new contact details,  it was fair and reasonable to provide the information 
that it did to her former  partner. Ive listened  to the call and am satisfied that nothing was 
disclosed about Miss Bs new contact  details.
Where Virgin  went  wrong was when it refused to give similar information to Miss B when she 
called to find out about her former  partners  application to remove  her from the mortgage. 
Miss B says provision of the information  to her former  partner was a breach of data 
protection law, but also wanted  the same information  its clear that the error was a failure 
to treat both parties to a mortgage equally and provide the same  information. And Virgin  also 
gave Miss B conflicting  information about  whether  a breach of data protection law had 
occurred, which was also unfair and unreasonable. But I cant say Virgins actions caused  
any domestic abuse as the evidence doesnt  support  such a conclusion  (the call with the 
former partner was after the police visited the property for example).
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered. I have to bear in mind the 
guidelines set by this service  and only compensate for the trouble and upset caused by the 
failings of Virgin, not for the general  stress  Miss B was suffering due to her personal 
situation. I think £250 compensation is fair and reasonable for Virgin refusing to give the 
same information to each  party and giving  conflicting information  about whether a breach  of 
data protection  law had taken  place. Much of Miss Bs distress is about her general position, 
not the failings of Virgin, and Virgins disclosure of information didnt increase Miss Bs risk. 
The fact that the former partner was told about  the progress of the mortgage  isnt a failure on 
Virgins part and isnt something for which I can award  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Miss B whether to 
accept the £250 offer from Virgin Money  plc. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0906979