K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).  
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs G had a meeting in a Halifax branch  with one of its advisors. They  took 
out PPI alongside a joint mortgage as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP) to 
protect their mortgage repayments. The policy covered them  in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  their mis-sale complaint. Mr and Mrs G 
disagree. In summary,  Mr and Mrs G told us it wasnt made sufficiently clear that the policy  
was optional and not a condition of acceptance  for the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs G also told us 
that the PPI costs werent properly explained  and they had other means they couldve relied 
on to pay the mortgage  if they werent working.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. Halifax hasnt been able to provide anything  
signed by Mr and Mrs G to show how they agreed to take out the PPI. But I dont  think thats 
surprising. This mortgage account has been  closed for over ten years.  I wouldnt expect 
Halifax or Mr and Mrs G to have kept the paperwork for this long. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs G can remember about the sale 
after all this time  and its not surprising that they told us they couldnt  recall all the sales  
details. I have to look at all the available information  and decide  what I think  is most likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used to sell PPI to its 
mortgage customers around the same time that Mr and Mrs G arranged  their mortgage. And 
we already know from looking at other cases what the process was when Halifax sold 
TMPP. Ive no reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal  sales process 
here. So I think its likely that PPI was discussed  and recommended  for Mr and Mrs G.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a number of years.  
Mr and Mrs Gs home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly repayments were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs G were persuaded of the need to protect  
their home by taking  out PPI. And they decided  to buy accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. 
Ref: DRN00613192They also took out some  other cover as part of the TMPP. Im just looking at their complaint 
that Halifax mis-sold them the PPI. 
Halifax recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs G. So it had to give them important policy  
information in a clear  way and also take reasonable steps to make sure the cover  it 
recommended was suitable.  
It doesnt look like PPI was an unsuitable recommendation based on what Ive seen  of 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time.  
Mr and Mrs G were both eligible for the policy and they both had jobs and contributed  to the 
monthly mortgage repayments. So, I think it was appropriate for the policy to be taken out in 
both their names and the way the benefit was split between them seems reasonable to me. 
The policy couldve  paid out for up to 24 months per claim if either of them was unable  to 
work because of accident or sickness. This gave Mr and Mrs G cover for their mortgage 
monthly repayments for a lot longer than if theyd  just been relying on their sick pay. PPI 
couldve also paid out for up to 24 months  if either of them  became unexpectedly 
unemployed. And repeat claims  were possible giving Mr and Mrs G long term cover for their 
mortgage.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs G mentioned being  able to rely on some critical 
illness cover  and death in service  benefits  but PPI provided a different sort of cover and 
paid out in different circumstances. So this doesnt affect my decision. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G werent affected by any of the main conditions limiting the policys benefits.  So 
I think it unlikely that better information about  the policys  exclusions and limitations  wouldve 
affected their decision to take out the cover.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the policy and appear to have wanted 
this type of cover. Ive seen nothing  to suggest  it was unaffordable for them. Taking  into 
account the cost and the monthly  benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made  
I think the policy couldve provided Mr and Mrs G with a worthwhile benefit.  
Overall, I think it unlikely  that Mr and Mrs G wouldve been put off taking out PPI if Halifax  
had given them better information.  So, even  if there  were failings in the way Halifax  sold 
them PPI, I dont find theyve lost out as a result of anything that Halifax mightve done 
wrong.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give back  to Mr and Mrs G some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
Ref: DRN00613193my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN0061319