K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his business  that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined 
its claim on his business  insurance  for losses sustained from a break-in. And he complains 
about AXAs  delays  and said its loss adjuster colluded with the parties to his other  claim.
background
Mr A suffered  a break-in  at his business and personal accommodation in January  2018 and 
he claimed to his respective insurers. From AXA, Mr A claimed  for business losses  of over 
£5,000 worth of money and cheques from a safety  deposit box and stolen equipment. AXA 
said it declined parts of the claim which were excluded by the policy. 
Mr A complained to AXA. AXA responded saying  monies had been  held in a cash  box bolted  
into a timber unit but should have  been in a safe.  And the security of the room  holding the 
equipment was inadequate. AXA said Mr A had stated that his business  was open 24 hours  
a day, but its website  showed this not to be the case. AXA said the business  was closed 
when the theft took place and the policy stated that cover for money is restricted to £500. 
AXA said the claim was delayed for several  weeks following Mr As notification of his loss, 
while it waited for information from him to consider the claim further. AXA said there was 
nothing to support  Mr As complaint  that the loss adjusters for his claims were  sharing his 
information. It said its loss adjusters acted upon  information Mr A had provided.  AXA said it 
couldnt comment on Mr As unhappiness with the cover provided by the brokers.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service.  He said that his business is open 24 hours  a day. 
And he said a professional is always present  in case of callouts,  and one was present when 
the theft happened, but werent aware of the break-in at the time.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part. She said AXA had restricted  
the claim for the stolen money under  a term of the policy that limited liability  for money not 
within a locked safe to £500 when the business is closed. She said the business website 
confirmed that the business was on call 24 hours  a day. She said this was confirmed by 
AXAs loss adjusters and so this part of the claim should  be reconsidered.
Our investigator said the policy  has security standards that require all doors to be fitted with 
locks to a specified standard. She said the equipment  room  door was only secured by a 
padlock and didnt meet the requirements.  And she thought  it reasonable for AXA to decline  
this part of the claim. She said AXAs loss adjuster had spoken  to Mr As home  insurer  but 
there was no impact on his claim or indication that any false  information was shared. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. He said that a padlock was broken to gain access to 
his equipment room,  but it did have adequate security. 
AXA disagreed with the investigator.  It said the advertised hours of the business are on its 
website with a 24-hour emergency service. It said this meant the business isnt open  24 
hours a day and the premises  were locked and closed and so not open for business. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06431962I have looked  closely at AXAs handling  and decisions  about  Mr As claim on behalf of his 
business. I have  not considered Mr As complaints against the broker that sold him his 
business insurance policy, or the parties  involved in his home insurance policy.  
Mr As claim was partly declined because AXA considered  his business to be in breach of 
the terms of the policy. AXA said the business  was closed at the time of the theft and so it 
applied the restricted  cover for loss of money.  AXA also said the security on the equipment  
room was inadequate and declined this part of the claim.
AXA said the loss of the money by Mr As business  wasnt fully covered because  it wasnt  
kept within a safe as required by the policy when the business is closed. AXA said that when 
the policy started,  Mr A stated that his business was open 24 hours a day, but thats not 
what it says on the business  website. Mr A said it was open as it was always on-call. 
I can see from the information provided that the cash was kept in a safe deposit box rather  
than a safe. But I think it was reasonable for Mr A to describe his business as being open as 
a professional member  of staff was available on-call  and was at the premises  at the time. 
And the business  provided services all of the time. So, I think AXA should  reconsider the 
part of the claim for the loss of moneys without applying the restriction  in the policy  applying  
to businesses that are closed.
 
Mr A said that a padlock was broken by the thieves to gain access  to his equipment  room,  
but he said the room did have adequate security. The policy  clearly states the minimum lock 
security that is required. I havent seen anything to suggest that the business met the 
security requirement for the equipment room. And so, I think it was reasonable for AXA to 
decline this part of the claim.
Ive looked at AXAs case handling records to see if it caused  a delay in the handling of the 
claim. From what Ive seen AXA asked  Mr A for documents on 10 January 2018, but these 
weren't received until March 2018. Mr A responded to this by saying that he sent his 
documents in good time, but his broker sat on them for six weeks. I can't hold AXA 
responsible for the delays of a third party and so I dont uphold  this part of the complaint.
AXA said there was nothing to support Mr As complaint that various  loss adjusters were 
sharing his information. It said its loss adjusters acted  upon information Mr A had provided.
I havent seen  anything to suggest there  was collusion between  AXAs  loss adjuster and the 
parties to Mr As claim on his home  insurance.  Insurers are allowed  to share information with 
each other  and do so frequently.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to reconsider the claim for the loss of moneys in line with the 
other terms and conditions of the policy, but not the restriction  relevant to firms  that are 
closed for business.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Ref: DRN06431963Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0643196