K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited wont  pay her pet 
insurance claims and has added two specific exclusions to her policy. My references to 
Red Sands  include  its agents.
background
In January 2018 Miss R took out pet insurance with Red Sands for her puppy.  The policy 
gave lifetime cover.
In summer  2018 Miss R claimed for a foreign body being removed from her dog. Red Sands 
paid the claim but it saw from the vet notes  that the dog had been treated for stomach 
problems and vomiting within the first 14 day of the policy. So Red Sands added  an 
exclusion for all claims  with respect  to the digestive system with effect from the start of the 
policy. It declined Miss Rs subsequent  claims for her dogs treatment for chronic 
gastroenteritis by applying  the exclusion.
Later, Red Sands added another exclusion;  for all claims with respect to allergies of any 
cause with effect from the start of the policy. It said the specialist vet had now linked the 
dogs chronic gastroenteritis to an underlying allergy.
Miss R complained to us. She wants the exclusions removed and Red Sands  to pay her 
outstanding claims.  She sent us a letter from her vet which  said the dogs  symptoms  in 
January were likely  to be caused  by stress.
Our investigator said Red Sands should re-consider  the claims without relying on the 
exclusion for claims relating to the digestive  system.  She made  no comment  about  the 
allergy claims exclusion.
Red Sands  disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  as I needed  to address some outstanding issues.  I explained 
why I was intending to uphold this complaint  and say Red Sands should remove  the 
exclusions for claims for the digestive  system and for allergies  of any cause. It should 
reassess the claims in line with the remaining policy terms. I said:
The policy is clear  theres no cover  for any illness that first showed  clinical  signs  within  the 
first 14 days  of the start of the policy.
The policy is also clear that if Miss Rs dog first showed any clinical signs  of an illness  within 
the first 14 days of the policy  Red Sands  can apply  an exclusion to the policy  in respect  of 
the illness or condition.
Red Sands  has recently sent us its underwriting guidance. That shows if a pet vomits within 
the first 14 days of the policy  it will add the digestive system exclusion and if a pet has 
digestive allergies  it will also add the exclusion for allergies of any cause.
However, I need to decide if Red Sands acted fairly  in applying and relying on either of those 
exclusions to decline Miss Rs claims for her dogs  gastroenteritis.
Ref: DRN04416992Miss Rs dog was first seen by her vet for a routine check-up on 17 January 2018, about 
three days after she bought the dog home and took out the policy.  The vet notes say the dog 
hadnt eaten the night  before,  was lethargic and showed some creamy  faeces  on the 
thermometer. The notes  say it could be a bit of gastrointestinal upset but nothing to treat at 
the moment.
Importantly, the vet has given some  updated  evidence. She says although the symptoms  
could have been gastrointestinal they were  more likely due to the dog being stressed  due to 
a change of environment as hed only been  with Miss R for three days.
The dog did see an emergency  vet on 20 January as hed vomited in the morning and been 
retching. But he was seen by the local vet again  for a routine visit on 23 January and the vet 
notes say there were  no gastroenteritis issues. Miss Rs vet also says that as the dog wasnt 
treated again  until May for vomiting and diarrhoea  she could confidently say there was no 
underlying gastrointestinal condition in January.
Some of the symptoms the dog showed in January  were the same  as his later symptoms 
which were ultimately diagnosed  as chronic intermittent gastroenteritis.  But given Miss Rs 
vets evidence I think its more likely  than not that the January symptoms were  caused by 
stress due to the dogs recent  change  of home, not due to a gastrointestinal condition.
In those circumstances its not fair and reasonable for Red Sands to add the exclusion for 
claims relating to the digestive system.
From May 2018 Miss Rs dog did have several vet visits  for ongoing  vomiting and the 
removal of the foreign  body doesnt appear to be related. The specialist  vets report in 
June 2018 says the dogs  digestive problems are likely to be due to food allergy.
Red Sands  retrospectively added the exclusion for all allergies because  the dogs digestive  
problems related to a food allergy.  But as I think the dogs January symptoms  were 
unrelated to the later chronic  intermittent gastroenteritis diagnosis Red Sands cant  fairly 
retrospectively add that exclusion either.
Red Sands  must remove the two specific exclusions with effect from the start of the policy.  It 
cant rely on either of those exclusions to decline Miss Rs claims and it must reassess the 
claims in line with the remaining policy terms.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss R agreed to and Red Sands didnt respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss R agrees to and Red Sands hasnt responded to my provisional decision Ive no 
reason to change  my mind. For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional findings  and these 
findings I uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN04416993Red Sands  must remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to the digestive system 
with effect from the start of the policy. It must  also remove the exclusion for all claims with 
respect to allergies of any cause  with effect from the start of the policy. It must reassess 
Miss Rs claims  in line with the remaining policy terms.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to the digestive system with effect  
from the start of the policy, and
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to allergies of any cause with effect 
from the start of the policy, and
reassess Miss Rs claims in line with the remaining policy  terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0441699