K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2005.  Mr P applied  for his credit  
card when he was in the bank. Shortly afterwards, the policy was added  to Mr Ps credit card 
account during  a phone call with Barclays.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr P mainly  said that nobody ever talked to him about PPI over the phone  or recommended 
it and he wasnt aware he had it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Heres why I say this. 
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to 
look at everything and decide  what I think is most likely. And whilst Mr P is sure about what 
hes told us, what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  his complaint. 
I think Barclays made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr P to remember  in detail 
what was said as this call was a long time ago. But, based on what  this service  knows  about 
the way Barclays  sold PPI over the phone at this time, I think its likely  that during the call 
Mr P was persuaded  of the benefits  that PPI offered. And so he asked for it to be added  on 
to his credit  card account. 
And it looks like this is probably what happened because when Mr P had to pay a monthly 
premium for the PPI this showed  up on his credit card statements. So I think  hed have seen 
this information   and if PPI wasnt  something he wanted, or he hadnt  agreed to have it, 
I think its likely he wouldve  gone  back to Barclays to query it. Ive seen nothing  that 
suggests Mr P did this at the time. So, on balance,  I think its likely that Mr P felt PPI would  
be useful in his circumstances, and he was happy to have it then  even  if hes forgotten  this 
now. 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr P. Ive taken into account  that Mr P cant 
remember anyone ever talking to him about the PPI. But, Im aware that after successfully 
applying for his card in a Barclays branch he wouldve got his card in the post. And, before 
he was able to use it, he wouldve  had to speak to an advisor to activate his card.  Thats 
when PPI wouldve  likely been  recommended  to Mr P. 
Ref: DRN01030112If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has an extra obligation to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. I appreciate that what  happened during this 
phone call is an important part of Mr Ps complaint.  I think  PPI was suitable for Mr P  so 
even if Barclays didnt  recommend PPI to Mr P this wouldnt change  the outcome  of his 
complaint. I hope  this puts Mr Ps mind at rest on this point.
Ive taken into account that Mr P told us he mightve  had as much as 6 months worth of his 
pay saved up that he couldve used to pay his credit  card. Apart from this, he told us he had 
no significant other means he couldve  relied  on. But the policy wouldve protected  his credit 
card monthly repayments for up to 12 months  each time he made a successful claim. It 
wouldve paid out if he was unable to work as a result of illness or a disability or if he lost his 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. So I think PPI provided him with a useful benefit in his 
particular circumstances.  
Mr P was eligible for the policy.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt 
look like those applied in Mr Ps case when he took out the PPI. So, I dont think having 
more information  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Barclays  gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont think Barclays properly explained what the policy  would cost, or what  
it might  pay out if Mr P made a claim. But Mr P chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems  to have wanted  it at the time, even  if hes forgotten  this now. The 
policy seems to have been  affordable for him when  he took it out  and he couldve 
cancelled it at any time if his circumstances  changed  or he didnt want to keep paying for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr P wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means  that, even though Barclays may not have done  everything it shouldve done,  
I dont think Mr P lost out because of anything Barclays did wrong.  
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope  that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0103011