K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy with a finance agreement he had with Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc 
trading as Volvo Car Credit, used to acquire a car. He says he thought  the agreement  was a 
personal contract purchase (PCP). But when he tried to voluntarily terminate (VT) the 
agreement he was told he couldnt  do this. 
background
Mr P acquired a new car in May 2015, from a dealer Ill refer to as L, for a cash  price of 
£28,294. There was some earlier dispute over the amount of the deposit Mr P paid towards 
the finance, but it appears this totalled  £6,550  with £5,800 coming  from a car Mr P part 
exchanged and a £750 contribution by L. The remaining balance was financed  with 
Santander. 
The finance  Mr P took was a fixed sum loan agreement over 37 months, with a final balloon 
payment at the end. He also signed a sales agency  agreement. The sales  agency 
agreement said Mr Ps car could be bought back by Santander at the end of the term for a 
guaranteed price of £13,500. It also set a mileage allowance of 10,000  miles a year,  above 
which Mr P would be charged if he handed  the car back to Santander.
Mr P says that in around December 2017  he started to look around for a new car as it was 
clear the one he had was worth less than the balloon payment  due at the end of the term. 
Mr P says he spoke to L who told him to wait until around March 2018  to look into changing 
his car. Mr P said he began looking around this time, but L couldnt offer a good deal. So, his 
partner took out finance  with another provider for a different car, which was delivered in April 
2018.
Also in April 2018  Mr P says he contacted Santander to arrange to VT his agreement and 
give the car back. But at this point he was told this wasnt allowed under the terms of his 
agreement. He complained to Santander as he said he believed he had a PCP agreement  
which he thought  should allow him to VT. Santander issued its final response letter in 
May 2018. It said Mr P did have  a PCP agreement which was a Fixed  Sum Loan (Personal 
Loan) Personal Contract Purchase  agreement . It said this type of agreement  didnt allow  the 
right to VT.
Santander said Mr P had signed  for the agreement and received  a verbal explanation of the 
details. It also said Mr Ps initial application was converted by the underwriters to a different 
type of agreement to that which he applied for. But, it said L wouldve explained all the 
details of the new agreement to him. It said it wasnt upholding  his complaint.
When Mr P found out he couldnt VT his agreement, he said he couldnt afford to keep 
paying for two cars, so he returned the new one. He said he incurred administration costs as 
well as extra  insurance fees to do this. 
In June 2018 the car financed by Santander was collected at the end of the term. At this 
point Mr P was charged £1,065.05. This consisted of £930.05 for excess  mileage and £135  
for damage  to the alloy wheels. Mr P was unhappy with this as he believes if the VT would 
had gone ahead, he wouldnt  have  had to pay for the excess  mileage.  And he said L 
admitted it made a mistake with the mileage allowance on the agreement  and this shouldve 
been set at 12,000 miles a year.
Ref: DRN01122232Mr P then brought  his complaint to this service.  Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. He 
said he thought  the agreement had been misrepresented to Mr P as he didnt believe  the 
agreement Mr P took was a PCP. He thought Santander should put things right by 
reimbursing Mr P £240 for the costs  involved  in returning the car he acquired  in April and 
£75.34 for insurance costs he paid for this car. He also said Santander should pay Mr P 
£200 for distress  and inconvenience caused.
Mr P responded and said he was unhappy with this. He believed he couldve taken a newer 
car around  seven months sooner than he did and so should  be compensated for this. He 
thought he was due further costs back from his insurance premiums. And he said he paid 
more for excess mileage because he had the car for longer than he wanted.
Santander also disagreed with our investigator. It said Mr P did have a PCP agreement, but 
it was a personal loan PCP rather than a conditional sale PCP. It said the ability  to VT was 
not a feature  specific to all PCP agreements, only to certain PCP agreements.
Our investigator responded to Santander  and said what  it had told him didnt change his 
mind. He also responded to Mr P and explained he didnt think  Mr P wouldve handed the 
car back earlier as this wasnt the action he tried to take at the time. And he said he thought  
the insurance costs  hed recommended were  fair.
Mr P still disagreed and reiterated his previous points. Santander responded and also said it 
disagreed. It said it was Mr Ps responsibility  to ensure he read all the documents and 
understood what agreement he was taking.  The case was then passed for an ombudsmans  
decision.
While awaiting  to be allocated to an ombudsman, we asked L for some more information  
about the sale. It also said Mr Ps agreement  was a PCP. It said the type of agreement  was 
clearly on the documents Mr P received. And it confirmed  it had paid Mr P £894 as a gesture 
of goodwill  towards  the excess  mileage  charges.
The case  was then passed to me for a decision. I sent Mr P and Santander a provisional  
decision on 28 August  2020. This explained  I initially thought the complaint should  be 
upheld. Ive included  my findings  from this decision below:
This case is about a fixed sum loan agreement which is a regulated financial product. The 
agreement was sold by L on behalf of Santander. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 explains in certain circumstances a finance provider, Santander in this case, can be 
held responsible for representations made by a credit broker  which  is what L was doing  
when it brokered  the finance to Mr P. So, I can consider  Mr Ps complaint against  Santander.  
What I need to consider in this case is if the finance  was misrepresented  or misdescribed  to 
Mr P. For a misrepresentation to have taken place  I need to consider if Mr P was told a false 
statement of fact that induced him into taking the finance  when  he otherwise would not 
have.
Mr P believes hes lost out as he says the agreement wasnt  a PCP as he expected. 
Santander, and L, both say the agreement was a PCP.  There is quite clearly some  
significant confusion  here. So, Ill firstly  consider  if the agreement Mr P took was a PCP or 
not.
Ref: DRN01122233Ive considered what the Financial Conduct  Authority says about PCP agreements. In its 
work on motor finance, published on its website, it explains:
The majority of new car finance is now in the form of Personal Contract Purchase (PCPs), a 
form of Hire Purchase (emphasis added by myself)
The key feature  of a PCP is that the value of the car at the end of the contract  is assessed  
at the start of the agreement, resulting in lower monthly repayments
PCPs provide the flexibility to own the car at the end of the agreement  by paying the 
deferred value  (Guaranteed Future  Value,  GFV), or to enter into a new agreement  (using 
any equity built up over the course of the existing  agreement). The consumer also has the 
option to simply give the car back, but they will often incur any excess mileage and/or 
damage costs. Consumers may also be approached  prior to the conclusion of their PCP 
agreement with the offer of entering  into a new agreement, if equity has built up
The Finance  and Leasing Association (FLA), of which Santander is a member,  on its website 
under What finance options are available when buying from motor dealerships? says:
Personal Contract  Purchase (PCP) is a variation of a Hire Purchase agreement 
(emphasis added by myself).
Its worth  mentioning here that Mr P says he thought he was getting a conditional sale PCP. 
As above, both the FCA and FLA describe PCPs as a form of hire purchase.  There  are 
differences between  conditional sale agreements and hire purchase agreements. But, 
modern conditional  sale agreements are often set up to have very similar or the same exit 
options as hire purchase agreements. I dont  think I need to go into more detail here as this 
isnt in dispute. But, for the purposes  of this specific decision, Im satisfied I can take Mr Ps 
opinion that he thought  he was getting  a conditional  sale agreement  to also mean a hire 
purchase agreement.
Santander have  said that Mr Ps agreement was in fact a PCP, but it was a fixed  sum loan 
PCP. It said various agreements could  be PCPs, as long as the agreement had:
An annual mileage  restriction
A guaranteed/minimum future buy back value based on the mileage  restriction
Three options when  the agreement ends   to pay the balloon payment and keep the 
car, return the car and end the agreement or part exchange  for another car under a 
new agreement
I accept what Santander says here is quite similar to what  the FCA explains about PCP 
agreements above   although Ive noted  that the FCA specifically says they are a form of 
hire purchase. So, Ive gone on to consider the type of agreement Mr P had.
Its important to note that Mr P signed two agreements with Santander. The first was for a 
fixed sum loan. The second was for a sales agency agreement.
There are some key differences between a hire purchase agreement  and a fixed sum loan 
agreement. For example,  when a consumer takes  a fixed  sum loan for a car, the ownership 
of the car passes  directly to them. Under a hire purchase agreement, the finance  provider 
would initially own the car. Ownership would only be passed to the consumer if and when 
they paid the outstanding balance, including any balloon payment, in full.
Ref: DRN01122234This means  unless a fixed sum loan has a buy back  option, which  Mr Ps didnt, a consumer  
doesnt have the option to return the car at the end of the agreement. But, Mr P did have  a 
sales agency agreement  which  he signed  and which appears to have  given him this option.
Looking at the sales agency  agreement  I can see there are some features, which on first 
glance, look similar to those of a hire purchase PCP. I say this as the agreement  has a 
mileage allowance  and what  appears to be a guaranteed  future  value (GFV) for the car  
although this is described as The guaranteed price. Ive also noted the title of the 
agreement is PCP  Advantage FDC (SP).  
But, the key thing to note here is that the sales agency agreement doesnt form part of the 
credit agreement. It is a separate contract  entirely that allowed Mr P to sell the car back  to 
Santander if he chose  to. So, Im satisfied, because  this is a separate contract, that the 
existence of this agreement does not make Mr Ps fixed sum loan a PCP agreement. 
Section 99 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  sets out, in summary, that under a hire 
purchase agreement  a consumer has the right to VT. This means under a hire purchase  
PCP a consumer  can give their car back at any point during  the agreement, before the final 
repayment, and have their liability capped at one half of the total due under the agreement.  
But, this doesnt  apply to fixed sum loans. So, this means Mr P did not have the right to VT 
his fixed sum loan agreement.
Thinking about  all of this, Mr Ps fixed sum loan agreement did not include a buy back 
option, a GFV, nor a mileage allowance. Neither  did it provide him the option to VT the 
agreement. Im satisfied  the fixed sum loan Mr P took out does not meet  the FCAs, FLAs 
nor Santanders own explanation of what a PCP is. So, thinking about everything,  Im 
satisfied the finance agreement Mr P took out was not a PCP agreement.
Ill now consider if the agreement  was misrepresented or misdescribed to Mr P.
Mr P says he thought  he was applying for a PCP agreement. And Santander have said 
Mr Ps original  application was changed  to a fixed sum loan at the underwriting stage. Ive 
asked it for some  further information  about  this and evidence of what  Mr P originally applied 
for, but its only been able to say the change may have  happened automatically. Ive 
assumed, given what Mr P told us, that he originally applied for a hire purchase or 
conditional sale PCP.  When this was changed,  I wouldve expected  the key differences  
between this and a fixed sum loan to be clearly pointed out and explained to Mr P.
But, thinking  about this, Im satisfied its most  likely this wasnt done.  I say this as Santander,  
and L, both still now say that the agreement Mr P took was a PCP.  As Ive explained above, 
I dont think it was. I dont think its likely  that Mr P was told at the time that his agreement  
had been changed from a PCP to a different type of credit, and the key differences between 
them explained to him, when both Santander  and L still believe the agreement  was a PCP.
It follows that Im satisfied its most likely  Mr P was told the agreement was a PCP when it 
wasnt. Im also satisfied  this was a false statement of fact.
Ive gone on to consider what documentation  Mr P saw at the time and to see if this negates 
the incorrect information I think its likely he was told. Ive reviewed all of the documents 
provided by Santander.
Ref: DRN01122235Ive considered the credit agreement Mr P signed.  I accept this is titled  FIXED SUM LOAN 
AGREEMENT. And I also accept it doesnt  explain in the terms and conditions the 
traditional features  of a PCP agreement. But, I dont think this is enough to say Mr P 
wouldve understood that the agreement was fundamentally different to the PCP that I think  
its likely  he initially  applied for. I say this as I havent seen anything to suggest the 
differences between  the product Mr P initially applied for and the one he ended up with were 
highlighted  neither in the credit agreement  nor any of the other paperwork he saw at the 
time. 
Ive also considered that the sales agency agreement is titled  PCP  but as I explained 
above, this isnt a PCP agreement. So, thinking about this, Im satisfied the documents  dont 
make it clear  this agreement was different to the one he applied  for and was not a PCP.
So, Im satisfied Mr P was told a false statement of fact about the agreement.  Thinking about  
what Mr P told us about wanting  the option  to hand  the car back  and considering  his future  
actions towards the end of the term, Im also satisfied  that he wouldnt have entered into the 
agreement if it was made clear to him that it wasnt a PCP and that he wouldnt  have  the 
option to VT. I think its most  likely he instead wouldve taken a hire purchase PCP.
I dont know for sure if Mr P couldve been approved for a hire purchase  PCP agreement 
rather than a fixed sum loan with Santander  - as it appears this was changed  at the 
underwriting stage. If I assumed he couldnt, I may reach the conclusion hed have gone 
elsewhere for the car and finance. If so, I may consider that the starting  point for putting  
things right with the misrepresentation  would  be to treat the finance  agreement as though it 
wasnt entered into. But, I need to consider whats fair and reasonable here.  Mr P had use of 
the car for the term of the agreement. So, I dont think  this would be a fair approach.  And, 
ultimately, whether  or not Mr P couldve got a different type of finance with Santander 
doesnt affect what I think should  happen to put things right  which  Ill now explain.
When considering  what Mr P lost out on here,  Ive considered that I havent  been presented 
with any evidence to suggest the fixed sum loan he got cost more or less than the equivalent 
PCP. So, I have assumed  that if he was given a PCP agreement  this wouldve had the same 
interest rate, monthly cost etc. as the finance he was given. Ive also assumed that the GFV 
wouldve been set at the same amount as the value  listed  in the sales agency  agreement.  
So, considering this, I think its most likely  Mr P wouldve still handed the car back  at the end 
of the term rather than paying the balloon payment if he had a PCP  as Mr P explained  he 
believed the car was worth less than this.
Mr P says hes lost out by not having the ability to VT the agreement.  He says he wouldve 
done this around  seven  months before the end of the term if he had the ability to. But, I dont 
agree this is likely  the case. When considering if Mr P has lost out here,  I need  to think  about  
what he did  not what he might have done. It appears Mr P was under the impression he 
had a PCP agreement with the ability to VT until April 2018. Although he says he discussed 
changing his car earlier  than this, he didnt actually attempt this until April 2018.  So, I cant  
see this wouldve been any different  if Mr P did have a PCP with the ability  to VT.
That being  said,  I do think hes lost out by not having the ability to VT when he tried to. Mr P 
says he ordered  a new car on finance before he found out he couldnt VT his agreement.  He 
then had some costs to return  the newer car as he didnt want to pay for both agreements. I 
have thought about the fact that the new car and agreement were  in Mr Ps partners name,  
rather than his own. But, from what he said I think its most likely this was be used by Mr P 
as well as his partner.  Im satisfied it was intended to be used as a family  car and as a direct  
Ref: DRN01122236replacement for the car under this agreement. So, I think  its fair hes reimbursed for the 
costs incurred acquiring and returning  this car. Mr P provided an invoice for £240 from a 
document fee that he paid, which I think he should be refunded.
Mr P also says he had to insure the newer  car when  he had it. I think  its reasonable Mr P is 
reimbursed any costs  here as he wouldnt have had to cover two cars if nothing  went wrong. 
Mr P provided details of payments made towards his insurance, which are broken down by 
the relevant cars registration  number.  Our investigator said Mr P should be reimbursed a 
total of £75.34. This is made up of the insurance  costs for the newer  car Mr P acquired.
Mr P said he was also charged an additional  £41.43 by his insurer for temporary additional 
car cover and a change  of car administration fee. But these charges arent set out in the 
invoice Mr P provided. The document shows a charge for insuring his old car and doesnt 
break this cost down  any further. Mr P was always  going to have to insure one of the cars 
and I havent seen enough to make me think Mr P paid more here than he would have 
otherwise.
So, I agree  with our investigator that Mr P should  be reimbursed for the costs listed  for the 
replacement car on the insurance invoice  a total of £75.34.  But Im happy to reconsider 
this if Mr P can provide  further evidence.
Mr P says there was an issue  with L recording the wrong mileage  allowance   in this case  
presumably on the sales agency agreement. He said he shouldve been  allowed 12,000  
miles a year rather  than 10,000. But, it appears  L has compensated Mr P for this with a 
payment of £894.  So I dont think I need to make a finding about what  happened here.
That being  said,  Mr P says he still lost out as he didnt believe he wouldve  had to pay for 
any excess mileage charges if he had been  able to VT the agreement.  Looking  at the 
amount L compensated Mr P and what he was charged for excess mileage this leaves a 
total of around  £36 that Mr P paid.
If Mr P had been given  a hire purchase PCP,  whether or not he would be liable for any 
excess mileage charge would depend on the specific wording of the contract. Santander 
hasnt shown Mr P wouldve been responsible for this charge under a different agreement.  
Thinking about  everything thats  happened, I think its fair that Mr P should be reimbursed 
this cost.
Our investigator said he thought Santander should pay Mr P £200  to reflect any distress and 
inconvenience caused. But, he didnt explain what this was for. Ive considered what  
happened here and I think it must have been  very stressful  for Mr P to discover he had a 
different type of agreement than he thought and to discover he couldnt VT the agreement. 
Ive considered that Mr P spent time and effort finding and acquiring a new car. He then took 
time to arrange delivery, only to have to shortly return it which Im sure must have been 
stressful and disappointing. And, Ive taken  on board  that Mr P pointed out he couldve  been 
driving a newer  car for the final few months  of the agreement rather than his older  one.
Ive also considered that it appears  Santander have recorded negative  information on 
Mr Ps credit  file in relation to the excess mileage and damage  charges. Mr P says he didnt 
pay this as he was in dispute with Santander. Had everything gone as it should,  Im satisfied 
Mr P wouldnt have  delayed paying  this. So, I think Santander should remove any negative 
information from Mr Ps credit file.
Ref: DRN01122237Thinking about  all of this, I dont think £200 is enough to reflect what happened here. I think  
Santander should pay Mr P £300  for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
I gave Mr P and Santander  one month  to respond  with any further comments or evidence for 
me to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr P got in touch and said he was prepared to accept my provisional decision. Santander 
didnt initially  respond. Due to the current situation,  I gave Santander a further month to 
provide anything it wished for me to consider. But, it still didnt get in touch.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having thought about everything carefully  again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same  reasons I explained  in my provisional decision and which  Ive set out 
above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Santander Consumer (UK) plc 
trading as Volvo Car Credit to do the following:
Reimburse Mr P £240 for the costs from the new car from 05 April 2018*
Reimburse Mr P £47.34 for insurance costs  from 25 April 2018*
Reimburse Mr P £28 for insurance costs from 03 May 2018*
Reimburse Mr P £36.05 for the excess mileage  charge*
Remove any negative  information from Mr Ps credit file from April 2018 in relation to 
this agreement and/or the associated charges
Pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused
These costs should have  8% simple interest  added from the time of payment to the time of 
reimbursement. HM Revenue & Customs require Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr P a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 December  2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0112223