K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  refused to replace parts  of 
his car when  he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr Ks car was vandalised  and his car was damaged in several areas.  He made  a claim to 
his insurer, Admiral. 
Mr K complained that he asked the approved repairer (AR) not to begin repairs until hed 
agreed to them. But Admiral had allowed repairs to his car to begin. Mr K didnt believe all 
repairs were included in the ARs estimate.  He said there was damage to the drivers door 
which he believed could  be clearly  seen in photos  he provided.
Admiral instructed an Independent Assessor (IA) to review the estimate provided by the AR 
and inspect Mr Ks car. The IA agreed  with the ARs estimate for all but one of the repairs:  
the IA reported  that a nearside front pillar - which was a structural  component of the car - 
should be replaced rather than repaired.
Mr K was unhappy that neither the AR nor the IA identified damage  to the drivers door. He 
said he didnt have  any confidence in the AR continuing with repairs to his car  given that it 
failed to identify  the nearside front pillar required replacing. Mr K believed  all damaged  
panels to his car should be replaced rather than repaired. He said hed contacted  us for 
advice  and our advice supported his view.  
Mr K was also unhappy that Admiral didnt meet its own timescales  and failed to update him 
which meant he called for updates. He was unhappy with how long Admiral took to deal with 
his complaint.
Admiral agreed that its service to Mr K hadnt been  what it should have. For this it 
apologised and paid Mr K £170 compensation. This was £10 toward call costs, £60
toward travel costs while it dealt with his complaint and £100 for distress and inconvenience  
caused. 
Admiral didnt agree there was damage  to the drivers door. And it said it wasnt  required to 
replace parts  that didnt  need replacing. So to resolve Mr Ks complaint, Admiral  said it would 
either:
authorise the repairs and include a replacement  bonnet and rear quarter panel as 
a gesture of goodwill   in addition to replacing  the A pillar at its approved repairer 
with a new post repair inspection to be carried out by a different IA or;
pay Mr K a cash in lieu equivalent of the repair costs for £7,700.45 (this includes 
the goodwill  gesture repair estimate) less his policy excess of £560.
Mr K remained unhappy.  He believed his policy should provide for the panels on his car to 
be replaced and not repaired. And if the costs to replace them  were  more, Admiral should  
settle his claim by paying him a total loss settlement. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ks complaint  should be upheld. He thought  Admiral  
had acted reasonably. 
Ref: DRN09619392Mr K didnt agree. In summary he says:
He instructed the AR and Admiral  not to begin repairs to his car  but they started 
repairs anyway. 
Admiral didnt define comprehensive  cover  when he bought the policy. In its absence  
he asked us for advice. He said the advice he was given was that it was reasonable 
to expect Admiral to replace rather than repair the panels  on his car. 
Both the AR and IA missed additional damage and the AR missed structural  damage 
 so how could  he have any confidence in them  when they made basic  mistakes.
As Mr K didnt agree,  the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy  with Admiral is a fully comprehensive  policy. Like all insurance policies, it has 
terms and conditions and exclusions. Mr K says Admirals policy documents  dont define 
what it means by comprehensive  cover. So without it being  defined,  Mr K called us for 
advice. The advice  he says he received  was that it was reasonable to expect Admiral to 
replace the panels rather than repair them.
As the investigator  explained, we dont  have a recording of Mr Ks initial  call with us for 
advice. He explained that any information  this service gave at enquiry stage couldnt  be 
accepted as confirmation of how we would deal with any complaint Mr K intended to make. 
I can see Mr K told Admiral that our advice was that his car should  be reinstated to the 
condition it was in prior to the incident.  
Mr Ks policy  does  say what Admiral will do in the event of a claim.  It says it will either:
 pay to repair your car, or
  pay a cash  sum to replace the damaged  car or item. We may reduce  the
 settlement,  or ask you to contribute towards  the repair costs, if the parts replaced 
were already  worn  or damaged or for audio/visual  equipment that has been removed 
from your car
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers  recommendation.
Mr K provided an estimate from a dealership garage  which came to £13,051.24. Mr K said 
the estimate was to repair his car to its pre accident condition  rather than repairing the 
damaged panels. Admiral said the estimated costs  under this estimate were inflated.
I agree  that Admiral  should repair Mr Ks car  or pay a cash  equivalent sum - to put it back  
in the position it would  have been  in before the damage was caused. However, I dont agree 
that this means  it should replace damaged  parts that an engineer  deemed repairable.  
I think Admirals  AR should  have  identified that the A pillar  needed  to be replaced rather  than 
repaired. But although the AR had started repairs to Mr Ks car, Admiral says this isnt an 
area it had started  work on. 
Ref: DRN09619393The incident  happened  on 26 June 2018.  On 2 July 2018 Mr K asked Admiral  to inform him 
before any work started on his car. Mr K had concerns about  the amount of filler that would 
be used to repair rather than replace  panels. Mr K said Admiral  didnt do this. 
Admiral told Mr K  before it provided  the call recordings to us  that he didnt  object to the 
AR carrying out repairs until after the work started. Admiral said it authorised  the repairs  on 
the date the claim  was registered  subject  to the ARs estimate  showing it was economical 
to repair  his car. Admiral  says the AR stopped repair works after Mr K raised  concerns  with 
them about  the method of repair it intended  to use. 
Mr K doesnt  agree  that Admiral could have authorised the repairs on the day the claim was 
registered  because it took a few days for the estimate to be done and for his car to arrive 
at the AR. Mr K says he wouldnt have objected to the AR carrying out repairs  when he first 
reported the incident - as he didnt know what he might object to. I understand Mr Ks point 
here. But Ive no reason  to dispute Admirals  explanation of the agreement  it has with its ARs 
and the process  it followed. So I think its possible that the repairs  were authorised before 
the AR had provided an estimate  and had possession of Mr Ks car.
However, the recordings show that Mr K asked Admiral to inform  him before repairs  started 
on 2 July 2018. Admiral  didnt  do this. And I know Mr K is unhappy  because  he said he also 
asked the AR directly  not to carry out work  and it as Admirals agent  failed to contact him 
before it started  the repairs. So he believes this failure is also Admirals responsibility.
Ive considered whether Admirals failure to contact Mr K before repairs started  has made a 
difference to the outcome. I dont think it has. Mr Ks complaint is that Admiral  should replace 
parts of his car that were suitable for repair. In his opinion,  he believes Admiral  is failing  to 
provide what he believes  to be fully comprehensive cover. 
The AR stopped repairs.  It said no repair work was carried  out to the structural part of Mr Ks 
car. And as Ive said,  I dont think Admiral acted  unreasonably by deciding  to repair parts  
that were repairable. So even if the AR hadnt started repairs  as Mr K requested, this had no 
bearing on his complaint.  And while I can understand Mr Ks concerns that the AR didnt 
correctly identify that the A pillar should  be replaced,  I think  Admirals offer to pay Mr K a 
cash in lieu equivalent  sum - as an alternative  - was fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr K says  because the AR started repairs  its difficult  to find another 
repairer to carry out the repairs. But Admiral also said that if Mr K agrees for the AR to carry 
out the repairs, it will arrange for a different IA to inspect the repairs. So I think Admiral  has 
acted reasonably here. 
I realise Mr K will be disappointed with my decision.  But overall I think  Admiral  dealt with his 
complaint reasonably. So Im not asking  it to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN09619394Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0961939