K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited refused to pay his commercial
vehicle insurance  claim.
background
Mr M was in a supermarket car park and noticed  smoke coming  from his car. When he lifted  
the bonnet, he could  see smoke coming  from the front of the engine bay. A member of public 
got a fire extinguisher and put the fire out. Mr M then contacted Haven to claim for the 
damage caused by the fire.
Haven appointed an engineer to review Mr Ms claim. The engineer said the likely cause was 
an electrical short circuit in the low voltage  wiring behind the head light. Which could have 
been caused when a headlight bulb was changed,  if the person changing it wasnt  careful.  
Because of this Haven turned down Mr Ms claim. It said damage caused  by electrical faults  
isnt covered. Mr M wasnt satisfied with Havens response, so he complained. He said he 
isnt mechanically  minded  so doesnt  work on his own car, he said he always  had the car 
worked on by a manufacturing garage instead. Haven didnt change its position,  so he 
brought his complaint here.
As Haven  turned down his claim Mr M said he had to hire another car at a cost of £120 per 
week, so he could work. He also said he paid £1,500 to repair the damage caused by the 
fire. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ms claim and found that fire damage is covered by Mr Ms
policy, but electrical faults arent.  Because of this he recommended Haven pay Mr M the 
£1,500 he paid to repair the fire damage. He also recommended Haven pay Mr M £660 to 
cover the cost he incurred  when  hiring  another taxi, along with 8% simple  interest  per year to 
compensate him for not having the money.  Haven disagreed, it said the policy didnt cover 
electrical faults and because  an electrical fault started the fire the claim wasnt  covered.
As Haven  disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has a comprehensive policy with Haven. That means it provides cover  for damage
caused by fire. Havens  said as the fire was the result of an electrical failure  its not covered.
It relied on an exclusion which says the following isnt covered: Mechanical, electrical,
electronic computer or software breakdowns, failure, faults or breakage .
Ive considered the exclusion and I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint if I allowed Haven to rely on it to turn down this claim. I say this 
because Mr Ms policy  covers  him for damage  caused by fire. As theres damage caused by 
fire Haven  should  cover  the damage  caused by the fire. But I do think its fair and reasonable 
to not cover  the repairs to the electrical  fault itself, as its excluded under the policy. Haven 
should therefore not rely on this term to decline Mr Ms claim for fire damage.  
Ref: DRN07188072As Haven  incorrectly turned down Mr Ms claim, he said hes had to borrow money  to repair  
the damage caused by the fire. Mr Ms not said hes incurred  a cost when borrowing the 
money, so I dont think Haven need  to compensate him for not having this money. But 
Haven does need to pay Mr M the £1,500 he paid to repair his car. This is because Mr M 
wouldnt have had to pay this if his claim had been  dealt with by Haven. If Haven had dealt 
with Mr Ms claim  its likely he would have had to pay an excess,  so its fair and reasonable 
for Haven  to deduct  any excess  for fire damage  in line with the terms and conditions  of this 
policy. 
Mr M said he also spent  £120 per week to rent another  car while  his wasnt  roadworthy. He 
said he did this for seven weeks. As Mr Ms policy didnt  provide a courtesy car he would 
have always needed  to arrange transport  while  his was repaired. But I can see Haven 
delayed the claim  by five and a half weeks. Meaning  Mr M has paid for another car for longer 
than he should  have. Because of this Haven should reimburse Mr M five and a half weeks  of 
rental costs,  totalling £660. Haven should also add 8% simple  interest per year to this 
amount to compensate Mr M for not having  the money.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Haven
Insurance Company Limited  needs  to:
pay £1,500  to Mr M for his claim for fire damage, minus any excesses in line with the 
terms and conditions  of the policy
pay Mr M £660 to cover the cost of renting another car while his was repaired.  It 
should add 8% simple  interest  per year to this amount from the date Mr M paid it 
until the date it makes payment1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Haven Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0718807