K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs C complain about an early  repayment charge (ERC) applied by Santander  UK 
Plc. Theyd  like the ERC refunded.
background
Mr W and Mrs C wanted to move  to a larger property. They  applied  to Santander for a 
mortgage, hoping  to port the mortgage  from Mr Ws existing property. They  say that 
Santander caused unnecessary delays and wasnt able to issue a mortgage offer in time. So 
they applied to another lender. As a result they paid an ERC of about £14,600. Mr W and 
Mrs C say Santander caused delays so that it could profit  by applying the ERC.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He set out his 
findings in detail. In summary, he said:
it wasnt unreasonable for Santander to ask for information to help it to decide whether to 
lend. 
When Mr W and Mrs C started the application  in April 2018, Mr W didnt  have a buyer  for 
his property and intended to keep  it. Mr W applied for consent to let the property and 
paid the fee in early June 2018.
A buyer was found for Mr Ws property. Santander posted a sale of mortgaged  property  
form to Mr W to complete and return.  While  Mr W and Mrs C say they didnt expect  the 
form to be posted (and the portal  didnt  say this) and it didnt  arrive,  there were reminders 
about the form in the online portal.  So Santander made them  aware that they needed  to 
complete and return it. When the form didnt arrive, they could have asked Santander 
about it.
Mr W and Mrs C returned the completed form on 18 June 2018. An appointment to make 
a new application  on the basis Mr Ws property would  be sold was booked for 25 June 
and moved to 29 June  at Mr W and Mrs Cs request.  
There was only about three weeks for Santander to complete the new application  once it 
knew the basis on which Mr W and Mrs C were proceeding. Santander didnt cause  any 
unreasonable delays. It was entitled to apply the ERC.
If the mortgage had been ported, Santander would have received more in interest  in one 
year than the total ERC. Santander  said it would have offered the mortgage if Mr W and 
Mrs C had continued with the application. 
Mr W and Mrs C had applied to another lender. While this lender  made  an offer sooner 
than Santander,  this didnt mean Santander  made an error.
while Mr W and Mrs C were  unhappy  with Santanders complaint handling  process, its 
entitled to decide  how it manages  complaints.
Mr W and Mrs C didnt  agree.  They  say they were  given  contradictory information about 
whether the application was with underwriters, the information on Santanders portal  is 
messy and unclear, they spent hours on hold, Santander unexpectedly posted a form 
without telling them it was changing  its method of communication, and it offered limited  slots 
for interviews.
Ref: DRN09520152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The mortgage offer for Mr Ws mortgage with Santander said an ERC would apply if the 
mortgage was repaid  before June  2020. As the mortgage was repaid  during this period, I 
think Santander was entitled to apply  the ERC.  
There might  be circumstances  in which Id find it fair and reasonable to require a lender to 
refund an ERC. But thats not the case here. Mr W and Mrs C say that Santander  caused  
delays  they say deliberately  so that it wouldnt be able to offer a mortgage in time for 
their agreed completion date. I dont think the evidence here supports this. 
what happened?
Mr W and Mrs C contacted Santander in April 2018 about taking out a mortgage to buy a 
larger property. Mr W wanted to sell his property  and port his mortgage. But he didnt, at that 
point, have a buyer.  So the mortgage  application was made  on the basis  hed keep the 
property. Mr W applied to Santander  for consent to let the property.  He paid the consent  to 
let fee on 3 June 2018.  
In early to mid June  2018 Mr W accepted  an offer for the sale of his property. Mr W and 
Mrs C completed  an interview and application with a mortgage adviser  on 29 June  2018.  
Their application  was then passed  to Santanders underwriters. The underwriters asked 
Mrs C to provide up to date evidence  of her income  as some information  shed provided was 
for 2017. 
On 12 July 2018 Santander  received a request  for a redemption statement for Mr Ws 
mortgage. The mortgage was redeemed on 16 July 2018. Mr W says theyd applied to 
another lender to ensure they had a mortgage for their purchase. 
did Santander cause  unnecessary delays?
Mr W and Mrs C first contacted Santander about applying  for a mortgage in April 2018. But 
there was a significant change in their circumstances when Mr W found a buyer for his 
property in June  2018. I think it was reasonable for Santander to re-assess their application. 
Santander says it cant give a time scale to complete mortgage applications, but would 
normally require at least six weeks. Here,  there  was only about three weeks between  Mr W 
and Mrs C making the new application  and their sale and purchase completing. Santander 
was also waiting for outstanding information  from Mrs C.
Mr W says he didnt know Santander  needed him to return a sale of mortgaged  property 
form when he found a buyer for his property.  He says this caused  delays.  I dont think  the 
evidence supports this. Mr W accepted an offer for his property: he says this was around 10 
June 2018. Mr W cant remember when he told Santander hed accepted an offer for his 
property but thinks  this was early  June. Most  likely it was after 10 June if this was when the 
Ref: DRN09520153offer was accepted. The evidence Santander  provided includes a note made on 16 June  that 
Mr W hoped  to sell his property. Santander received  the completed form on 19 June 2018. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to post the form to Mr W. Its unfortunate that 
Mr W didnt receive  it. Santander then emailed the sale of mortgaged property form to Mr W. 
It was also noted  as required on the portal. 
Mr W and Mrs C say Santander didnt have  enough  interview slots.  But I dont think there 
was an unreasonable delay in Santander  offering Mr W and Mrs C an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser to complete the new application,  or an alternative when they couldnt make  
the first appointment. I dont think, based  on the available evidence, that Santander acted 
unreasonably or caused a delay in processing  Mr W and Mrs Cs application. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  its fair and reasonable to require Santander  to refund the ERC.
Mr W says he was given inconsistent information about whether their application was with 
the underwriters.  Mr W and Mrs C say Santanders  portal is messy  and phoning  is time-
consuming. I understand their frustration, but I dont think it changes  the outcome here.  And 
while I appreciate  Mr W is unhappy about  Santanders complaint handling process, this isnt 
something I can look into.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0952015