K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about the amount  Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  settled a claim 
on his motor insurance policy for.
In bringing this complaint Mr C has been  helped by a representative.  But in this decision, for 
ease of reading, I will refer to the representatives  comments as being  Mr Cs.
background 
Mr Cs car was stolen. It was recovered  but only its shell remained.  Admiral settled Mr Cs 
claim for the cars total loss, valuing it at £67,805.  Mr C thought that figure was too low and 
brought his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Cs complaint. She thought Admiral should increase  
its valuation to £69,544. So she said Admiral should  pay Mr C £1,739 to make up the 
difference in the valuations. She said it should  add simple interest  to that sum at rate of 8% a 
year. 
Admiral agreed with our adjudicators recommendation but Mr C didn't; so his complaints 
been passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it 
and my award will be the same as our adjudicator recommended.
Mr Cs policy  says that if his car was a total loss Admiral would pay its market  value.  And 
the policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing  your car, with one of a similar  make, model, year,  mileage and 
condition based  on market prices at the time of the loss.
Mr C said that owing to the cars rarity, condition and its extras the sum Admiral offered him 
wasn't enough to replace his car with a similar make and model. So I've looked carefully at 
what would  represent  a fair market value. 
Our usual  approach to complaints about  valuations is to look at the relevant trade guides for 
valuing second-hand  cars. We often  find these reliable as theyre based on nationwide 
research of likely selling  prices. And I find them more persuasive than figures cars are 
advertised for, as those  are often inflated to allow for negotiation and don't reflect the actual  
sale price.  
When Mr C brought his complaint to us he sent us a valuation report from an engineer hed 
instructed to value the car. That engineer said that as Mr Cs car was rare and had additional 
extras, which the trade guides didn't take into account, then the valuations they provided 
were unrealistic. He also provided a number of adverts for similar  cars to Mr Cs to 
demonstrate that. And having  considered various  other sources of information,  which  did 
include one of the trade guides, the engineer  said he thought a reasonable valuation  for 
Mr Cs car was £72,000.
Ref: DRN05009402I agree  with the engineer  that the basic  valuations  - that is the online  valuations obtainable 
using the standard tools available from two of the trade guides - did seem too low when 
considering the adverts for cars similar  to Mr Cs. That's because both guides, when using 
the correct mileage, gave valuations of less than £60,000. And the prices  that cars similar  to 
Mr Cs were advertised for - even allowing for negotiation  - would indicate they would likely 
sell for considerably more  than the two trade guides basic  valuations. So I think it was 
reasonable to disregard  those basic valuations.  But its worth noting that Admiral didn't  use 
those basic valuations either when coming to a final valuation. Instead it asked one of the 
guides for a bespoke valuation based on the details of Mr Cs car including some of its 
optional extras. The trade guide concerned provided  a bespoke valuation  of £67,805. And 
that was the figure that Admiral initially used to value the car when it settled Mr Cs claim. 
Although I think its worth  noting  that valuation was based on the car having travelled at least  
15,000 miles fewer  than Mr Cs car had actually done.
One of the other trade guides (which Ill refer to here as TG) gave a valuation of £71,284. 
But Admiral  didn't consider this valuation when it initially settled Mr Cs claim. Mr Cs 
engineer said that TGs  figure provided  a reasonable starting  point for the valuation. He 
also noted that TG provides reference  to the sale of specific cars from which it arrived  at its 
valuations. But it seems  that Mr Cs engineer felt that as TGs valuation  wouldn't  have 
reflected the increase in value of all the extras that Mr Cs car had, so he valued  Mr Cs car 
at £72,000.
In response to our adjudicators assessment, Mr Cs said the only way of identifying the 
market value of this car, is by referencing the independent engineers valuation report ". But I 
disagree. The engineers report is only one opinion.  And while some optional  extras  may 
improve the sale price  of a car, Im aware  that many  don't. And even where they do I 
understand that the increase in value for the car is only likely  to be a small fraction  of the 
initial cost of those  extras when ordering the car as new from the dealer. And much of the 
data the engineers referred to, when  arriving at his own valuation, is for the price  cars were 
advertised for. But as I've said above  the sums cars are advertised for don't  necessarily  
reflect their actual sale price. And its fairly common across the second hand  car market for 
the actual sale figure  to be lower than the advertised price. So I don't think its reasonable to 
simply accept  Mr Cs engineers opinion as being the only way of identifying the fair and 
reasonable market  value  of Mr Cs car.
Our adjudicator thought a fairer way of arriving at a valuation  was to take an average of TGs 
valuation and the bespoke valuation provided by the other trade guide. That average  was 
£69,544. And having looked at all the evidence,  including the engineer's report and the 
advertised prices I agree  that figure is reasonable. Thats because I've noted that some cars 
similar to Mr Cs are being  advertised  for figures  around the £70,000 mark. But as the actual 
sales figures are likely to reduced  following negotiation, then the valuation  our adjudicator  
provided, based on the average figure from two guides, seem  to be a fair reflection of the 
market value of Mr Cs car. Thats because it seems  likely that figure  would enable  Mr C to 
replace his car with one of a similar age, condition  and mileage  for that amount.
So, as Admiral has already settled  Mr Cs claim based on a valuation  of £67,805, I require it 
to pay Mr C the additional £1,739 to reflect a fair market  value of the car. Admiral should add 
simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it originally  settled the claim 
to the date it makes  payment.
Ref: DRN05009403my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay Mr C a further  £1,739 to fairly settle the claim for the total loss of his car. It 
should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it initially settled 
the claim to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0500940