K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc didn't appropriately refund her after 
closing a claim on her motor insurance  policy in her favour.
background
Mrs M had an AXA policy on which a relative was a named driver. In 2016 the named driver 
was involved in an accident that she accepted was her fault. In 2017  the named driver was 
in another accident. That accident wasn't  the named drivers  fault but the other  drivers  
insurer didnt accept  liability until 2019.  In the meantime,  in both August 2017 and 2018, 
Mrs Ms policy renewed and her premium was affected by the open  claim. 
After AXA closed the claim as non-fault in 2019 it recalculated Mrs Ms premiums for 2017 
and 2018 and paid her premium refunds totalling around £350. Mrs M didn't think  that went 
far enough. AXA looked again at its premium  calculations and paid Mrs M a further  refund  of 
about £104 for 2017. It also paid her £100 compensation to address the impact of things it 
could have done better while handling the claim.
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked  
into the complaint.  He thought AXA had responded  to it reasonably. Mrs M didn't agree so 
her complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs Ms made a number of detailed points. I've considered  
everything she's said but in this decision I will focus  on what  I see as being  the key 
outstanding issues  following  our investigator's assessment of her complaint.
Mrs Ms renewal  premium  increased dramatically, by around £892  in 2017 following her 
named drivers accident. Thats not surprising  as its standard  insurance industry  practice for 
insurers to treat open claims  as fault claims  until theyre settled. And every insurer  Im aware 
of will consider that a driver with a recent  fault claim is a higher risk than drivers without such  
claims. And insurers reflect that change in risk in the premiums  they charge.
The claim was still open when Mrs M renewed  her policy in 2018. At that time her premium 
was about £619 higher than the amount shed paid for her policy in 2016. Its apparent that 
Mrs M was expecting  the premiums to reduce by similar sums to the amounts it had 
previously increased by once AXA had closed  the claim  as not being  her named drivers 
fault. But while AXA did pay Mrs M refunds totalling around £454  that was around £1,057 
less than her premiums had initially increased  by in 2017 and 2018.  And I can understand 
why she thought that AXA hadnt refunded her appropriately. So, Ive looked carefully at how 
AXA recalculated her premiums after closing the claim as non-fault.
Setting an insurance  premium is essentially about  risk assessment. And I need to make it 
clear that were not the industry  regulator; that means its not my role to tell an insurer  how 
much it can charge for its policies. Neither  is it my role to tell an insurer what factors  it should 
take into account when assessing  risk. Different insurers will have different views  on what 
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial judgement 
Ref: DRN06314932and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere with. And we generally  take the 
view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
AXA has given us some  details showing how it calculated  Mrs Ms premiums before and 
after it changed the claim from fault to non-fault. That information is commercially  sensitive. 
Thats because the methods insurers use to assess risks and the premiums they charge to 
cover those risks will alter to respond  to the changing insurance market. As such, insurers  
do not want their competitors getting insight into their pricing practices  and risk assessments 
because that might result in them losing a competitive advantage. And our final decisions 
are published  on our website, which means that any information  we include in those 
decisions about an insurers  risk assessments or pricing practices will be available  to anyone 
who wants to read it. So, when an insurer provides us with details of its pricing  calculations  
and how it assesses risk, that is business sensitive information. And we will abide by 
insurers requests to keep  such information  confidential. That is standard  practice with all the 
insurers we deal with and isn't limited to complaints we look into against AXA. And that 
means that I can't share this commercially sensitive  information with Mrs M. 
As I've said above Mrs M was expecting  her premiums to reduce  more  or less  to the 
level that they were  at before her named driver  had the accident in 2017, once the claim was 
closed as non-fault. But that hasn't happened. It might help if I explain that many insurers will 
consider that drivers with recent non-fault claims pose a higher risk than drivers  who havent 
had any claims at all. Thats because insurers say their statistics  show that drivers whove 
had recent  non-fault incidents  are more likely to go on to be involved in fault claims later on. 
And insurers reflect that change of risk in the premiums  they charge, even though the drivers 
involved werent at fault for the claims. 
So, if AXA thinks drivers  whove been involved in a non-fault incident pose a greater risk 
than drivers who havent, its entitled to charge a higher premium. And that means  that while 
AXAs assessment  of the risk for Mrs M reduced  after the claim was closed as non-fault,  
AXA didn't  think  the risk level had reduced  to the level it was at before the 2017  accident. As 
a result,  the premium didn't reduce to that level. And as such  Mrs Ms premium would 
continue to be affected by the non-fault incident,  although not as severely as when the claim 
remained open and was therefore treated as a fault claim  until it closed. But it did mean that 
the premium remained  higher  than the 2016 level. 
I can understand Mrs M might  not agree with AXAs assessment of risk. But its entitled to 
decide its rating factors in response to its assessment of the risks it covers  and the market  it 
operates in. And as Ive said above it's not for me to tell AXA how it should go about 
assessing the risk it believes its policyholders  present. Thats  something its allowed to do 
when balancing  its need to cover  any perceived  risks against its desire to be competitive and 
retain a customers business. Ill add that there were other  factors unrelated  to the 2017  
incident that have affected Mrs Ms premiums. And having looked at the information  AXAs  
provided us with carefully Im satisfied it treated Mrs M as it would other consumers with 
similar circumstances. So, I don't  think it calculated  Mrs Ms premiums  and so her refund - 
unfairly.
For completeness, Ill add that Mrs M said AXA told her that if the accident was closed as 
non-fault she would  receive a refund. This isn't a point that AXA addressed in its complaint 
response. But AXA did provide Mrs M a premium refund  once the claim closed as non-fault. 
Ref: DRN06314933And I don't think the fact that this wasn't as large  as Mrs M was expecting  means AXA did 
anything wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0631493