K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the way Santander  UK Plc dealt  with a payment into his business 
account which Santander later debited. He asks that Santander returns the payment (to him 
or the sender), refunds charges and apologises.  Mr W says he doesnt want  compensation.
background 
In January 2019 Mr W received a text from Santander  to say his business account was 
overdrawn. When he checked, he found  a payment  which  had credited his account a couple  
of days earlier had been debited. Mr W contacted Santander. He says Santander  was 
unhelpful. It didnt  explain what had happened  to the money.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Santander 
had to carry out checks on payments. The payment was returned as Santander  hadnt  been 
able to complete  its checks. The investigator said this wasnt unreasonable.  No charges 
were applied to Mr Ws account. Since  the complaint came to us, Santander accepted the 
service it provided to Mr W was poor and offered £100 compensation. The investigator said 
this was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he didnt want compensation. But he did want  an apology. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Santander credited  Mr Ws account  with a payment from overseas on 21 January 2019.  
Santander debited  the payment from Mr Ws account on 23 January 2019. Mr W had 
expected the payment and had already  made a corresponding  payment out of his account. 
Mr W contacted  Santander on 23 January  2019 about the payment being debited. He called 
business banking  and was transferred to Santanders complaints team. The call handlers 
couldnt explain what happened or how or when it might be sorted  out. The complaint 
handler called Mr W the following day and said Santander couldnt accept the payment as it 
couldnt confirm  it met legal and regulatory obligations. He said Santander  wouldnt be able 
to tell Mr W what happened to the payment  such as whether it was returned to the sender. 
Santander wrote to Mr W on 31 January  2019 asking for information about  the payment. 
Mr W wrote  back enclosing an email from the payers bank explaining the payment. He didnt 
provide all the information Santander requested. 
Santander wrote to Mr W in mid-February 2019 to say the payment had been  returned to the 
sender.
Ref: DRN09388862did Santander make  an error?
Santander needs to have  processes in place to ensure it meets legal and regulatory  
obligations. I cant reasonably find it was wrong  to return the payment. But Santander  
accepts it made errors here. It says the payment shouldnt have credited Mr Ws account  
before it completed  its checks. It also accepts its service was poor when Mr W contacted it 
about the payment.
Ive listened to Mr Ws calls with the complaint handler on 23 and 24 January 2019.  Mr W 
wanted to sort out the problem with the payment. I understand  why he didnt find the calls 
helpful. And why he was upset by the complaint  handlers tone.  
Santander needed information about the payment. But, so far as I can tell, it didnt ask Mr W 
for this information until it sent a letter dated 31 January 2019. It might have been  better  if 
the complaint  handler had called Mr W back after hed found out what had happened  and 
what information was needed. The complaint handler told Mr W that Santander wouldnt be 
able to tell him what happened to the payment:  Santander wrote to Mr W in mid-February 
saying the payment had been returned to the remitter.
what should happen now?
Santander didnt  apply charges to Mr Ws account  as a result  of the returned payment. Mr W 
hasnt said this caused him financial  loss. While  I think Santander should pay compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused by its errors, Mr W is clear that he doesnt want  this.
After the complaint came to us, Santander admitted it made errors and offered 
compensation. Its a shame it didnt do this earlier. Im not persuaded its meaningful  to 
require Santander  to make a forced  apology some  nine months after the events. I hope that 
Mr W finds some resolution  in Santanders  acceptance of its errors. Ill leave to it Mr W to 
decide whether  to accept the £100  compensation its offered. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay £100 to Mr W if 
he agrees to accept  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0938886