K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax incorrectly  applied a default  on 
his credit file. He would  like this default removed and compensation for the time and effort  
taken in raising this complaint.
background
Mr R fell into financial difficulties so, in September 2017, he contacted a debt charity  to make 
arrangements to pay off his debts. 
The debt charity contacted Halifax with a repayment plan for Mr Rs overdraft on his current  
account. Mr R started making  these  payments through the debt charity.  He made regular 
payments and didnt  miss any. He assumed all was well.
But, in August 2018, Mr R found that a default  had been applied on his credit file on 13 
February 2018. He said he wasnt aware  that Halifax were planning on applying a default  
and says that he wouldve made  different arrangements for paying off his debt if he had 
been aware of this so as to avoid  a default  being  applied on his credit file. 
Mr R contacted Halifax to find out why the default had been applied.
Halifax said they first received contact from the debt charity on 9 October 2017 offering 
repayment for the overdraft on Mr Rs current account. Because of the offer and the size of 
the debt, Halifax  moved  the account to recoveries resulting in it being closed and a default 
being applied  to the credit  file. Halifax said they wrote to Mr R on 6 December 2017  to tell 
him that the account would be closed  and a default  applied if the full amount wasn't paid 
within 60 days. They received no contact and the overdraft wasn't repaid so the default was 
applied on 13 February 2018. They felt that they had done nothing wrong in applying  the 
default.
Mr R wasnt happy with this so he came to us.
Our investigator found that Halifax hadnt done  anything wrong. He looked at Halifaxs  
business file and found that a letter had been  sent to Mr R on 6 December 2017. He noted 
that it had gone to the right address and that it did inform Mr R that his account would be 
closed and a default applied for if he didnt clear his overdraft within 60 days. 
Halifax told our investigator that they had seen the offer from the debt charity.  They said that, 
generally, when  they deal with a customer with financial difficulties, they will ask them to 
complete an income  and expenditure sheet to work out how much they can afford to pay off 
the debt. When  they get something from this debt charity, they assume that an assessment 
of income and expenditure has already been done and the amount being offered is the most 
that the customer can afford to pay. 
After receiving the repayment offer for Mr R, they realised it would take him more than two 
years to pay off the debt.  They  thought  the best way of helping him was to close  the account 
and stop all charges.  When  they close an account,  they then move it to recoveries. This is 
what they had done. The next step was to inform Mr R of the account  being closed and a 
potential default  being applied for is the debt wasnt repaid within  60 days. They  did this in 
their letter of 6 December 2017. 
Ref: DRN03884722Halifax referred to the terms  and conditions of the current account and pointed  out 
paragraph 10.1,  which states:
An overdraft is repayable  on demand.  This means  we can ask you to repay  it (or part of it), 
or reduce the limit, at any time. Usually this will be due to a change or expected change in 
your personal circumstances. We will give you at least 30 days notice unless we need  to 
take action sooner to protect our interests or for regulatory reasons.
Halifax say that they didnt  accept  the offer from the debt charity. Mr R also says that the 
debt charity told him that his repayment  plan wasnt accepted, nor rejected, by Halifax. 
Our investigator thought that Halifax had been  fair and reasonable  in their dealings  with 
Mr R. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint  has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr R wont be happy with my decision. I too find that that Halifax hasnt done 
anything wrong. I will explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Rs current account  clearly state that Halifax  can ask for an 
overdraft to be repaid  on demand. This is standard with most banks. I think that they were 
acting fairly  and reasonably in closing the account and asking for the overdraft  to be repaid 
within 60 days. I also note that they thought  this also helped  Mr R as no further charges or 
interest would  then be applied to the account. 
Mr R says that he didnt  get the letter saying Halifax were going to close  the account and 
asking for repayment  of the overdraft. I have  also seen  the Halifaxs  file and find that they did 
send a letter  on 6 December 2017. I dont  think that they were obliged to do anything  more. 
I note that Mr R says that they should  have  written again. But, considering that he had help 
from the debt charity,  I think  Halifax were entitled to find that they assumed the debt charity 
would tell Mr R of the potential default  being applied for. 
I have looked  on the website of the debt charity  and, in the section  on debt management 
plans, they clearly state that the creditors might apply for a default  which  will stay on the 
credit file for six years. 
I have read through Mr Rs response to our investigators view. Im afraid that I dont agree 
with the points raised in it by Mr R for the reasons given above. In particular:
Halifax did send a letter notifying Mr R that a default would be applied to his account 
if he didnt repay  his balance;
Halifax were  entitled  to ask for repayment  of the overdraft on demand;
Halifax didnt agree to the repayment plan suggested by the debt charity so any 
regular payments made  under it were  simply part of an informal agreement;
Halifax did try to contact Mr R after the debt charity put forward  the debt 
management plan.  
Ref: DRN03884723In summary,  I dont think that Halifax has done anything wrong so I wont  be asking them to 
do anything further.  
my final decision
I think that Halifax has behaved fairly and reasonably in applying  the default  on Mr Rs 
account. So, I dont  require them to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0388472