K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Coventry Building  Society mis-sold Mr C and Mrs C payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr C and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and almost none of the original documents  
from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone  to recall in detail everything 
that happened about 19 years ago when the application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Mr C and Mrs Cs representatives said: Our client was told they must take the PPI policy  
in order to be given  the account. However I would need stronger evidence  before I could 
fairly conclude that Coventry acted wrongly  in this way. And Ive seen a copy  of the 
application form that was likely to have been  in use at the time and this does set out the 
PPI as a choice. 
Coventry probably didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C and Mrs C, as being particularly 
suited to their individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr C and Mrs C to decide whether it was suitable.  
But even  if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time.  Not being able to pay a mortgage  can 
cause significant  difficulties, and the PPI would have paid out in addition to any employer 
sickness and redundancy benefits,  and possibly for longer. It would have  put off the time 
when theyd need to fall back on other resources such as savings. And Ive not been told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So it would have 
been potentially  useful. 
Its hard to know how well Coventry explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr C and Mrs C took the PPI.
Ref: DRN04939302Its possible Coventry didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr C and Mrs C would have been affected by any of these.  Its likely  they 
were eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying  for it monthly,  so they could cancel it at 
any time without further cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0493930