K821x#15complaint
Mr O complained about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car following
his claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
After Mr Os car was damaged in an accident,  Haven decided  that it was uneconomical to 
repair. So they offered him an amount for his cars  market value, less his policy excess and
outstanding premiums, and less an amount reflecting  his cars pre-accident damage. But Mr 
O thought that his car was in excellent condition and was worth more. He was also unhappy  
that Haven charged  him for being  late in reporting  the accident.  And he felt that Haven were 
not transparent with him, gave him poor service overall and didnt acknowledge his 
complaint quickly enough.
The investigator thought that Havens valuation wasnt in line with motor  trade  guides.  Haven
did then increase their offer for Mr Os cars  market  value  to an amount  which  the
investigator thought  was reasonable. But the investigator still thought  that Haven had
deducted too much for Mr Os cars  pre-accident  damage. They  recommended that his
complaint about  that should  be upheld. Mr O didnt agree and so his case was passed
to me to decide.  I issued a provisional  decision on 24 July 2020, saying that I intended to 
partly uphold it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Haven did charge Mr O a late reporting fee, they later refunded  this as a goodwill
Gesture. This was because Mr Os accident happened at the New Year  holiday period and 
they accepted that he could have had difficulties  getting through to them right away.  And so I
think that they resolved that adequately. Haven admitted that theyd mislaid his complaint at 
first and apologised for that. But after that I think they responded to his complaint 
satisfactorily in a reasonable time frame, and so I didnt require them to do anything  there. I 
saw that Mr O also made a data access request  to Haven, and they replied to that.
Car's value
The investigator explained to Mr O our approach regarding complaints about car valuations.
We dont decide  what the market value  of a car is; we merely consider whether the insurer
has reached a fair and reasonable amount having  regard to the valuations  in the trade
guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. That evidence might  include
advertisements detailing  the sale prices of similar  cars. But we bear in mind that cars usually
sell for less than the advertised price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound  by advert 
prices.
Mr Os car insurance policy says that Haven will pay his cars market  value at the time of the
loss. Haven said this was £10,565.  From  that Haven  are entitled to deduct his policy excess
and any outstanding premiums. They said these were £500 and £1,257.51 respectively,
totalling £1,757.51. So they paid him £8,807.49.
Ref: DRN09790852I looked at how Haven valued  Mr Os car. They said that they consulted their own
engineer about  it. But it appears  that they did not follow our established guidance for
assessing a cars market  value. The investigator checked the motor industry trade guides for
Mr Os cars  value  at the time of the accident.  Its highest valuation was £12,745 and the
lowest was £10,850.  Haven then reviewed the guides and agreed that they did justify  a
higher market value  for Mr Os car. So they offered £11,769.30. The investigator thought that
this amount was reasonable, because  it fell roughly midway between the upper and lower
guide amounts.  But Mr O didnt think it was enough and he wanted  the highest  of the trade
guide values for his car. I realise  that Mr O wants to get as much for his car as possible,
but as Havens revised market value offer is in line with our established guidance, I agreed
that it is reasonable, and I didnt require them to increase  it.
Pre-accident damage
Haven said that though  Mr Os cars pre-accident condition was fair, it had pre-accident
damage of scratches  and dents on the rear bumper. They  said that Mr O had accepted  that
as hed signed the garage appraisal  report  which  showed those. But Mr O felt that his cars 
condition was excellent, and he didnt agree with the garages appraisal report. He was also 
unhappy that Havens engineers had decided about  the pre-accident  damage by looking at 
photos of his car without physically inspecting it. But we dont think  its essential for an 
insurer to do a physical  inspection of the car. The garage had already done that and 
produced a report and photos, which are clear. So, I didnt think it was
unreasonable for Havens engineers to assess the car in the way they did. And, as the 
accident damage was to the front of the car but, but there was rear bumper damage too, it 
was reasonable  for Haven to decide that the rear bumper damage wasnt caused by the 
accident.
Haven said the value of the pre-accident damage was about £714.  Havens engineers
provided an itemised breakdown of that figure  as being  wheel refurbishment, removal and
refit of the rear bumper, and repair & painting it, including materials and VAT.  
This service cant confirm damage  repair costs as this is a matter for the experts in these 
situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether  an insurance company has considered all the available  evidence and 
whether they can justify  their decision to not pay for what  they think  is pre-accident repairs.  
As Haven  can justify that, and as Mr O hasnt given us any evidence  to counter Havens 
repair estimate for the pre-accident damage, I couldnt say that the amount is unreasonable.
However, this doesnt mean that Haven  are entitled  to deduct that full £714 from his cars
market value. As the investigator explained to him, the approach we take to deductions  for
pre-accident damage  is that we expect an insurer to value the damage but deduct only half
of that from their proposed settlement. That means  that Haven should deduct only £357
rather than the full amount of £714.
The market  value Haven  has offered  is £11,769.30. Deducting the policy  excess of £500  and
outstanding premiums of £1257.51 (which together total £1757.51) that leaves £10,011.79.
And deducting the £357 for pre-accident damage  makes £9,654.79. So I thought thats what
Haven owed Mr O.
Haven have made Mr O an interim  payment of £8,807.49, after deducting the amounts for
policy excess and outstanding premiums above.  As the difference between £9,654.79  and
Ref: DRN09790853£8,807.49 is £847.30, I thought that Haven should  pay Mr O £847.30,  plus interest on that as 
hes lost the use of that amount.
Haven accepted my provisional decision. Mr O said he wished to look at some information 
wed sent him before he replied, and he asked for some extra  time.  
But despite  several reminders he hasnt  sent us any more information. So in the 
circumstances I see no reason not to maintain my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I uphold this
complaint and I require  Haven  Insurance  Company  Limited to do the following:
 Pay £847.30 to Mr O
 Add interest  on this amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of total
loss to the date they pay it to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 November  2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
If Haven consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr O how much they have taken off and give Mr O a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0979085