K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc debited  his account with a series of card payments 
totalling £3,500 which he says he didnt  make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
On 4 February 2018, an account was set up on a gambling website in Mr As name, using 
his correct date of birth, address, mobile  phone  number,  and email address.
Someone tried to pay £250 to the gambling website using Mr As debit card,  but it was 
declined as one of the card details was entered incorrectly. The correct card details  were  
then used, and 5 transactions were made totalling £3,500.  The money was used for online 
gambling, and £1,009.35  was returned to Mr As bank account.
The next day, Mr A checked his balance at a cash machine and reported the transactions to 
HSBC, saying he didnt  make them or create  the online gambling account.
Mr A said he never lost his card or gave  it to anyone, and no-one else had access  to it. He 
didnt record his card details and had not received any calls or emails  asking for the details. 
And he said hed never told anyone his card details or given them  permission to use it.
Mr A explained hed met a man at work  who recommended he make a bet. Ill call this man 
Mr B. In January  2018,  Mr A made an account  with a different gambling website on Mr Bs 
advice. Mr A paid £320 to the other gambling website and received £800 in credits. Mr A 
said Mr B never saw him enter  his card details and there  was no way he couldve got them. 
Mr A suspected Mr B had made  the disputed transactions  but said he didnt tell HSBC  at first 
as he didnt want to get Mr B in trouble. Mr A stayed in contact with Mr B but wasnt able to 
get him to return the money he lost. He sent us a copy of their text messages.
HSBC argued they werent liable for the transactions in dispute. They said they were made 
using Mr As correct details and it was unlikely someone could have got all of Mr As 
personal details  and card details without him knowing. They  pointed  out there were no 
further attempts  to use Mr As card after it was cancelled, saying this indicated  the person 
using the card knew when it was cancelled. And they said that since all winnings had to be 
paid back to Mr As account, it meant a fraudster couldnt make money from doing this.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator didnt think  HSBC had to refund 
the transactions. She said the text messages didnt make it look like Mr B was acting without  
Mr As consent. And Mr B didnt seem to deny he owed Mr A money. She noted that Mr A 
had made  other gambling transactions recently  before the ones in dispute. And the ones in 
dispute still used  his correct details. She pointed out that the gambling company emailed 
Mr A on 4 February 2018 but he didnt act on it at the time, and he didnt contact the 
company until 28 February 2018.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr A made  the payments himself, as shed listened to a call 
between the gambling company and the person who set up the account,  and it didnt sound  
like Mr A. But she said the evidence  made  it look like Mr A was aware there would be 
transactions on his card,  and that he was trying  to recover  his losses with Mr B.
Ref: DRN05918132Mr A disagreed with our investigator. He said he had a lot of unread emails,  and he mightve 
thought the one from the gambling company  was just a promotion.  He reiterated that he 
wasnt aware of the transactions and wouldve never  given his permission to bet so much 
money. He asked for his case to be looked at again, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same overall  conclusions as our investigator, for much  
the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Broadly, HSBC can hold Mr A liable for the payments  in dispute if the evidence suggests that 
its most  likely he made them himself or authorised someone else to make  them   even  if he 
didnt authorise  them  to make the transactions for those  exact  amounts.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the person  making  the payments used 
Mr As correct  card details, aside from the first declined payment. This is not enough, on its 
own, for HSBC to hold him liable. So I also need  to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its most likely Mr A consented to the payments taking place.
Having carefully considered everything  both sides have said and provided, I dont think its 
unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that Mr A authorised the payments. I say this because:
Mr A had done online gambling before,  on Mr Bs advice, and appears  to have won a 
fairly substantial amount  of money.  So Mr A and Mr B did have at least  some history  
of helping each  other to gamble online before this incident.
From  Mr As texts with Mr B, both parties  appear to accept Mr B made the 
transactions, and that Mr B owes Mr A the money. Understandably,  Mr A seems 
surprised and disappointed at the amounts  Mr B spent. But he doesnt seem  to be 
surprised that Mr B made the transactions in the first place, nor does he seem 
suspicious about how Mr B managed to use his card. And Mr B doesnt deny making  
the payments,  nor does he apologise  for using Mr As card or otherwise imply he was 
using it without his permission. It suggests  that Mr A knew  Mr B was going to use his 
card and gave him access, even if he didnt know how much  money  Mr B would lose.
Similarly, Mr A didnt  tell HSBC about  Mr B when he reported the payments. Ive not 
seen any evidence  that he reported  Mr B to the police either. And he spent about two 
weeks trying  to get his money back from Mr B before  ever getting in touch with the 
gambling company.  This seems unusual  if Mr A was concerned that someone had 
got his card details  fraudulently. Again, it suggests that the issue wasnt that Mr B 
used Mr As card without his permission,  but more  that he failed  to pay him back.
The gambling company emailed  Mr A around the time of the transactions, but he 
didnt act on that or question it at the time.  I do accept that Mr A couldve missed  the 
email or assumed it wasnt important. But its also plausible that he ignored the email 
because he knew his card was going to be used for online gambling.
Ref: DRN05918133The disputed payments were made using Mr As correct personal and card details.  
And while its possible to have  got Mr As personal  details without his permission, it 
seems unlikely someone couldve got Mr As full card details without his permission. 
From what  Mr A told us, he kept his card securely,  it didnt go missing, no-one  else 
had access to it, and his card details  werent kept anywhere else. So its difficult to 
see how Mr B couldve got all of Mr As card details without him knowing.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for HSBC to refuse a refund.  Thats  
because, overall,  I think its more  likely  than not that Mr A authorised  someone to make 
these transactions,  even  if they werent  made  by Mr A himself.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0591813