K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr N says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr N aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding it 
to his mortgage. I cant know for certain what was said when Mr N applied for the policy but 
Halifax has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Mr N completed an application form 
separate to his mortgage to take the policy signing separately to agree  to take it. With this in 
mind I think Halifax  made it clear that Mr N didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose  
to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr N so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr N 
has told us he would  have  been entitled to generous sick pay when he applied  for the PPI 
and had redundancy cover. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ns sick pay, 
and covered circumstances other than redundancy. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ns circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr N about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
my final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0176097