K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Santander  UK Plc (Santander) stopped paying interest into his 123 current 
account and didnt notify him of this. 
background
In September  2013 Mr R took out a 123 current account with Santander.  The account 
allowed for interest to be earned on balances up to £20,000 if certain  terms were  met. 
The terms appear to try and encourage the account to be used as intended  a current 
account  and required at least £500  a month  to be paid into the account as well as for the 
account to have at least  two active  direct  debits. The terms and conditions explain interest 
will not be paid for any month  where these terms are not met. 
On 24 October 2018 Mr R called Santander to obtain interest  figures for the recent tax years. 
It was during this phone call he learned that no interest had been paid onto the account 
since September 2016. Santander explained that interest hadnt been  applied as one of the 
direct debits on the account  had expired  most likely because  the direct debit had not been  
in use. 
Mr R raised a complaint  with Santander and it reiterated the above points and explained 
there was no obligation  for Santander  to alert Mr R to the expiration of the direct debit. 
However, I understand Santander paid Mr R £50 as a gesture of goodwill and the Santander  
case-handler said they would make a note of Mr Rs points.  
Mr R thought the £50 offered was insulting as he believed  the interest hed lost out on was 
closer to £1,250.  And he told Santander that he wouldve settled the matter if it were to offer 
a larger  sum  however, Santander  didnt  agree  to this. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us and said Santander shouldve  let him know  when he was 
no longer complying with the terms in order to receive interest.  Mr R referred to all the other 
different types  of alerts that Santander sends out in relation to its accounts,  and said that 
Santander has, since his complaint, started highlighting to customers  that they should  check 
whether they should be receiving interest. Mr R also let us know  that because  of this poor 
experience with Santander he had been,  and was still, moving  all his funds out of the 123 
account. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R and concluded there  wasnt anything that 
Santander had done wrong  as it had treated Mr Rs account in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Mr R disagreed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Im in agreement with our adjudicator  
that Santander doesnt need to do anything. 
There doesnt appear to be any disagreement between  the parties about the terms of the 
123 account. That is, it is accepted there are terms which must be met before interest  is 
applied. Mr R was meeting these terms for a significant period of time, so I think he was 
aware receiving interest on the account was dependent  on certain factors.  And it seems both 
Ref: DRN08244392parties accept that interest to the account  was stopped because  the relevant terms were no 
longer being met. So, Ive not looked  into this any further.  
The point for me to consider is therefore  whether or not Santander  should  have  brought  to 
Mr Rs attention that one of his direct debits was no longer active, which  meant interest  
ceased being added to the account.  
Ive looked through the available  submissions  and Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Santander should have alerted Mr R to the fact that one of his direct  debits was no longer 
active. 
I understand Mr Rs point that he feels this is not something insignificant, so Santander 
should be proactively telling  its customers of such changes  on an account. And Im aware 
Mr R feels strongly  about this because he says hes received  better service as a customer  of 
a different bank. But its difficult  for me to say that Santander should have done something  
when in this case  there  doesnt appear  to be any requirement for it to do so. The terms and 
conditions set out what needs  to happen  for interest  to be applied  to the account and theres 
nothing Ive seen  in the terms requiring Santander  to provide any such notification to its 
customers. Im aware Mr Rs submissions are that Santander has made certain changes in 
its communications, but Ive not looked  into this. This is mainly because when taking out this 
account Mr R entered  into an agreement with Santander, accepting the terms and conditions 
of the 123 account  and I dont think in this case its fair to overlook those terms. 
I also cant ignore that individuals  have  some responsibility for running their accounts.  I can 
see from the monthly statements provided there  is space for an interest  figure to be included 
 so any change  in interest  payments  would  have been information available to Mr R each  
month. And theres nothing to suggest Mr R wasnt  receiving these statements. Mr R doesnt 
appear to have been using this account  as a current account  which it is - but given the 
level of funds Mr R had put into the account  werent insignificant,  I think  its reasonable to 
say Mr R would have  been likely to check he was getting the interest he expected to receive.  
Im very mindful that Mr R has told us hes not been in the best of health, and Im sorry to 
hear that he continues  to be unwell. Mr R should know Ive carefully considered  his 
submissions that due to his circumstances his priorities lay elsewhere  for periods of time. 
I understand this will not be the outcome Mr R was hoping  for. But after taking everything 
into consideration, I think Santander fairly applied the terms and conditions of Mr Rs 123 
current account. And in the circumstances, I dont think Santander needed  to do anything  to 
let Mr R know one of the direct debits  was no longer active on his account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019. 
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0824439