K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the way National House-Building  Council (NHBC)  handled a claim he 
made under a buildings  warranty.
To keep  things simple,  any reference to NHBC within this decision includes any of its 
contractors and representatives unless specified.
background
Mr F moved  into his newly built property in June  2012. His home included  a buildings 
warranty provided by NHBC.  And in March 2015 Mr F contacted NHBC to notify it of 
cracking throughout his home  and movement to the walls, amongst other issues. NHBC 
investigated and declined the claim, saying the cracking was as a result  of thermal shrinkage 
and wasnt covered under the warranty.
In June 2017 Mr F contacted NHBC again saying  the issues  had worsened. NHBC 
completed further investigations into the property and wrote to Mr F in November 2017. It 
explained that under the warranty it would pay the full cost (subject  to terms and limits)  of 
repairing any actual physical damage  caused by a defect within certain parts  of his home. 
In late 2017 NHBC carried out initial tests in regard to failing mortar. But due to mistakes in 
the testing, this had to be repeated. NHBC apologised for its error  and in December 2017 it 
offered him £300. NHBC carried on its investigations  and in January 2018 it said the damage 
had occurred due to poor performance of the mortar within the external walls of the property 
and it would accept  Mr Fs claim under the warranty. 
In April 2018 NHBC completed a detailed report and made recommendations to put things 
right. It scoped out the necessary works, and said it hoped to begin works within the 
following month. Mr F continued to raise  concerns he had about the property. In June 2018  
NHBC told him that many of these issues were cosmetic only,  so under the warranty, they 
wouldnt be covered.
In July 2018 contractors attended  Mr Fs property and began to remove  the faulty mortar. 
Around this time Mr F complained to NHBC,  saying its contractors had departed from the 
original specification they were given and what was agreed with him. This included a 
decision to re-point walls instead  of rebuilding, and not using a mortar gun method to apply 
mortar  despite this having been  agreed. He said hed just visited a cemetery  on a very 
significant date for him when discovering  this which was very upsetting for him.
NHBC acknowledged Mr Fs concerns  and said its contractors had let it down through their 
workmanship and actions.  So NHBC agreed  for those  companies to leave and be replaced, 
and it increased its offer of compensation to Mr F from £300 to £500.
In August  2018  NHBC told Mr F it would settle his claim  by purchasing his property. As part 
of this offer, it said itd also pay any reasonable costs incurred as part of the sale of his home 
and purchase of his next property (including  moving  costs). Mr F agreed and the purchase 
was completed in October 2018.
Ref: DRN02198022In November 2018 NHBC apologised again  and said it recognised thered been multiple 
problems with the way it handled the claim. And it said while the warranty didnt extend to 
distress and inconvenience, in this case its actions  had caused problems beyond what would 
normally be expected.  So it offered  Mr F an additional £2,000.
Mr F then brought his complaint  to our service.  He said NHBCs actions had prevented  him 
from seeing his terminally ill brother, who has since passed away,  as it was necessary for 
him to oversee  the works. Mr F also provided  medical notes which say he has suffered from 
anxiety and stress due to the quality and build of his home.
Mr F said alongside compensation  he wanted  NHBC to pay for his solicitors fees, as well as 
costs for new furniture hed bought. He said NHBC shouldve put him into a hotel  during  the 
claim, and that the offer of £25 per day it made  was intended to upset him. Within  Mr Fs 
complaint, he has complained that the building company hadnt built the property correctly. 
This included concerns  about cracks in mortar due to being made from a poor mix, displaced 
brickwork, amongst other concerns.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. The investigator recognised that the mortar  
sample testing hadnt initially  been  completed correctly, and that this caused  an avoidable 
delay. But she said there was no evidence to suggest that any later testing was carried  out 
to cover up the results  of the first tests.
She said NHBC shouldve been clearer with Mr F about its methods  of repair.  And while 
shed seen evidence  to suggest there were multiple  methods to address a problem with the 
mortar  either repointing  or taking down walls and rebuilding  it seemed Mr F was only told 
of the latter  which caused him distress. The investigator also said she was satisfied that 
NHBC had asked its contractors to use a mortar gun for re-pointing  the property. But that its 
contractors hadnt  used this method which caused  Mr F further  distress.
The investigator said NHBC  couldve put Mr F into a hotel over this time, but she thought the 
sum of £25 it gave  him per day of works  to account  for the disruption  caused seemed to be a 
reasonable solution. She also wasnt persuaded that NHBC had acted  maliciously when 
suggesting Mr F may want to get away or visit a relative. She went  on to say that NHBCs 
purchase of his property  was quick  and no further delays were caused after this point.
The investigator said NHBC  wouldnt be required to pay for new furniture under the warranty, 
and its offer of reasonable costs  couldnt  reasonably be extended  to new furniture as it had 
been Mr Fs choice on how he chose to furnish his home. 
The investigator also said she wouldnt expect NHBC  to cover any solicitor  costs in this 
case. This was because  she didnt think Mr Fs solicitor was necessary to either progress the 
claim or complain about any of the problems with the home. 
Overall the investigator  said NHBC made multiple mistakes  when  handling the claim, and 
taking these into account was satisfied its offer of £2,500 was fair and reasonable. Mr F 
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02198023Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why but to avoid any doubt,  
when considering this complaint, Im only looking at the actions of NHBC under the terms of 
this warranty and whether  these  have been fair and reasonable. Im not considering a 
complaint against  the builder of Mr Fs home   or considering its obligations.
NHBCs cover is designed to cover a home  owner  if:
1.the home builder  becomes insolvent  or fails to meet their obligations before the 
completion of the property, or during the first two years  after completion; and
2.against damage caused by defects in specified  parts of the home during years three 
to ten.
In this case NHBC has been clear that Mr Fs property suffered from multiple faults and 
defects. And the claim itself isnt in question by either party   particularly as the property has 
since been purchased by NHBC.
So Ive not needed to consider the scope of the claim in that regard. Instead Mr Fs 
complaint is about  the behaviour of NHBCs representatives, and its communication and the 
service it provided when handling  his claim.  And its these points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
We expect insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly, as well as providing appropriate 
information on the progress of a claim.
NHBC has acknowledged that it has made a number of mistakes  throughout the life of this 
claim. And it has recognised these mistakes  caused  delays, and that its miscommunication 
and errors  caused  distress for Mr F. 
When considering  the impact of these mistakes, Ive thought about Mr Fs points in turn. As 
a lot has happened throughout the life of this claim, Ive summarised events in places. 
NHBCs initial mortar tests werent taken  correctly so further tests were  required. Im 
satisfied this caused avoidable  delays.  Mr F since said NHBC had carried out subsequent 
tests to cover up initial results. But Ive been given  nothing to substantiate this, so Im not 
persuaded that this was the case.
Mr F has raised  a number of complaints about  the way NHBC has carried out its repairs.  He 
says he was told that walls would be taken down and rebuilt.  But NHBC didnt do this, and 
instead used another  method for repair (re-pointing). NHBC has given us a report  from the 
time that says there were  different options  it could consider when completing the repair.  And 
NHBC said it hadnt given  an assurance  the rebuild would be the method it used. However 
based on Mr Fs testimony Im satisfied this message wasnt  ever made clear to him. As a 
result, its clear to me this caused unnecessary distress and upset to Mr F.
NHBC also told Mr F it would be using  a gun method when re-pointing his property. Mr F 
discovered this wasnt  the method that was being  used, and this caused  further  frustration 
for him as it wasnt what had been agreed previously. And I think  its particularly unfortunate 
that Mr F discovered this on such a significant  day for him which added to his distress.
Ref: DRN02198024Further to this, having read NHBCs notes it refers on a number of occasions to Mr F being 
worried and stressed  over the claim.  And it recognised that hed said the claim had 
prevented him from being able to see his brother. It also said the stress was adding  to his 
anxiety as his neighbours  had been enquiring what was wrong with his home.
While claims of this nature are always  likely to have  a degree of stress and upheaval, Im 
persuaded that NHBCs actions did exacerbate this.
Following these problems,  NHBCs decision to purchase Mr Fs home  took place quickly, 
and thankfully,  he was able to find and move into another property within  a few months. This 
offer was beyond the terms of the warranty. And given the circumstances it seems this did 
help prevent any further distress to Mr F.
Within this offer NHBC agreed to pay for any reasonable costs associated  with the sale of 
Mr Fs home  and purchase  of his new property. From what Ive seen, its fulfilled the 
agreement it made.  Mr F has said he wants NHBC to cover the cost of new furniture as his 
new home is a different  size so will appear  bare without it.
This offer was made outside of the terms of the warranty so I have no terms or conditions to 
consider in relation to this. So taking  into account  what I think is fair and reasonable, I 
wouldnt agree  that furnishings are a reasonable cost associated  with the sale or purchase  of 
a home.  Id say instead furnishing  the home was a stylistic  choice or preference as many  
people wouldnt and dont  purchase new furniture when moving  home.
Mr F has also said NHBC should cover his legal costs as he approached a solicitor early on 
within his claim. Ive seen  nothing  within the warranty that says it would cover the costs 
associated with seeking legal advice. And Mr F hasnt presented  anything  to show that these 
costs were ever agreed with NHBC, nor that their actions were material  to either the 
progression or resolution of his claim.  So I see no reason  for NHBC to cover these costs.
Mr F has also complained that NHBC didnt  put him in a hotel during the period of this claim. 
Under the terms of the warranty it says NHBC will cover:
Any reasonable  costs  you incur by prior agreement with us for removal, storage and 
appropriate alternative accommodation if anyone  normally  living  in the Home  has to move 
out so that work can be done. 
It doesnt seem Mr F did have to move  out of his home during this period. So I cant see that 
NHBC acted unreasonably by not providing  alternative accommodation  for him. Im also 
aware that NHBC gave  Mr F £25 a day to allow him to go out for the day when work was 
being carried out. This seems reasonable in the circumstances and was likely an attempt by 
NHBC to reduce some of the ongoing  stress  that was being caused by the works.
Overall, Ive considered  all of the delays and mistakes that NHBC has caused over the life of 
this claim.  And having done so, Im satisfied its decision to purchase Mr Fs home, cover the 
associated moving  costs, and offer £2,500 compensation to him for the trouble and upset 
caused is fair in the circumstances. And I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN02198025Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0219802