K821x#15complaint
Miss T says Harvey  & Thompson Limited  (H&T) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about an instalment loan H&T provided to Miss T on 16th July 2017. The 
loan was for £350 and was due to be repaid  in 18 monthly instalments of £44.50.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ts complaint and thought  the loan shouldnt have been  given. 
H&T didnt agree. So as the parties  still do not agree, the complaint has been passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss T could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
Ref: DRN00483092make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
H&T asked Miss T for information about her income and expenditure and also carried out a 
credit check.  It has provided basic details  about  this check  including that Miss T had opened 
24 new accounts within the 6 months  previous to her asking for this loan. The check also 
brought up that she had defaulted on an account. I think, considering  the length of the loan 
that she had asked for, the information that it got back from its search should have prompted 
it to carry out further checks. I think H&T should  have had concerns about whether  it knew 
enough about Miss Ts true financial  situation.  
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to fully review Miss Ts financial situation  before 
approving the loan.  And I think that H&T needed to verify  the information it found  out where 
possible. This is to make  sure Miss T was in position to make  the repayments sustainably 
over the length  of the loan. I dont  think H&T did this. So I need to think  about  what it 
wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate checks. 
Miss T has provided  some information about her financial circumstances  which includes 
some bank statements  and a recent credit report.  I accept that this isnt exactly what  H&T 
wouldve seen at the time. But I think  it wouldve  found out similar information if it had made 
proportionate checks, so I think  its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Miss T was having  problems managing her money.  H&T wouldve found  out 
that Miss T was paying a significant amount to other  creditors.  And shed also been  repaying 
a significant amount to five short term lenders at the time she applied for the loan. 
I think that H&T wouldve  found out this information if it had made  proportionate  checks.  And 
I think it wouldve seen Miss T wouldnt have been  able repay the loan in a sustainable way 
over the length  of the loan. So I think that H&T shouldnt  have given the loan to Miss T. So I 
think she has lost out as a result  of this. So Im upholding Miss Ts complaint.
putting things right  what H&T needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss T paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Miss Ts credit  file
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires H&T to take off tax from this interest.  H&T must give Miss T a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN00483093my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Ts complaint. Harvey  & Thompson Limited 
should pay Miss T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0048309