K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background 
Mrs K and her family had multiple health issues. She had British  Gas cover for her central  
heating boiler,  controls and central  heating system.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
other companies and individuals  insofar as I hold the insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
In January 2019 Mrs K called British Gas for help with her central heating boiler. British Gas 
visited many  times. By late January  2019 Mrs K had complained  about  its service.
Mrs K was getting a grant and a new boiler in February 2019.
On about 19 March British Gas offered  £240.00 and a free power flush.  But it didnt send a 
final response before Mrs K brought her complaint to us in April.
Our investigator thought that the offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators opinion.  She asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that £240.00 isnt enough because  she was very stressed 
and not sleeping properly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy didnt cover a power flush  so I cant comment on the quality of any flush British  
Gas (or strictly speaking a sister company of the insurance company)  had done  in the past.
Mrs K hasnt provided us with a detailed timeline of events. But British Gas kept records  from 
which I can see dates and notes  of visits. 
Mrs K had an old boiler. Since 2015  British Gas had been recommending  that she should 
get a new one.
From the records, I find that on 22 January 2019,  there was a leak and by 24 January Mrs K 
had no heating. On 25 January 2019  British Gas replaced a diverter,  filling loop, gauge and 
pressure sensor. I find that British  Gas restored central heating. It also noted  that a radiator 
valve snapped off.
British Gas is dealing  separately with Mrs Ks complaint about damage to her property. Im 
satisfied that it is allowed  to do so. If Mrs K disagrees with the British Gas response to her 
complaint about  damage then she may bring that complaint to us.
Ref: DRN02622542But I find that British  Gas was responsible for some unproductive visits, delay and poor 
communication. I consider that the effect  of this was to cause extra distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs K (including  worry for other family members) at an already difficult 
time.
From what  Ive seen, Mrs K was getting a grant and a new boiler in February 2019. She 
hasnt said whether that included a power  flush.
However, British Gas made an offer of £240.00  and to flush the radiators. It has said that its 
offer is still open to Mrs K. Overall Im satisfied that the offer is fair and reasonable. So I will 
direct British Gas to pay Mrs K £240.00  for distress and inconvenience and to offer her an 
appointment for a power flush  within  14 days of Mrs Ks acceptance of this final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I direct British  Gas Insurance  Limited  
to:
1.pay Mrs K £240.00 for distress  and inconvenience; and
2.offer her an appointment for a power  flush within 14 days of Mrs Ks acceptance of 
this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0262254