K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (Natwest) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance policy (MPPI).
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
The sale took place  during a meeting. The insurance covered Mr C if he was unable to work  
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint. As Natwest  doesnt agree the matter has come to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint  because  I think Natwest  recommended  the MPPI to 
Mr C but I dont think that it was suitable for him.
I say this because  Mr C had a pre-existing medical condition which the policy would not have 
covered. So he might not have been  able to claim on the policy  in all the circumstances he 
had expected. 
Natwest has said Mr C would not have  been affected by the condition  at the time of sale.  So 
our service  contacted Mr C again and asked for more  information about this. Mr C has again 
provided information about his condition. I think based on what Mr C has told us, that the 
policy was not suitable for him.
Ive taken into account that Mr C would have  been  able to claim for other benefits under the 
policy. But I think he has lost out as a result of Natwests  failings in this case, because I dont 
think he would have  taken  out the policy if it had asked further questions  about his 
circumstances and then advised him that the policy was unsuitable.
So I uphold Mr Cs complaint and Natwest need  to put things right.
fair compensation 
Natwest should put Mr C into the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out MPPI.  The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Natwest should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until they get it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN00274582If Mr C made a successful claim under the MPPI policy,  Natwest can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
If Natwest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Cs complaint. And I direct National Westminster  
Bank Plc to pay Mr C compensation in line with the calculation of fair compensation Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0027458