K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about Bank of Scotland  plcs refusal to give her the refund she has asked it 
for.
background
I set out the background  to Ms Ms complaint in my provisional decision.  However,  I will 
summarise the background here again.
Ms M used her credit  card provided  by BoS to pay, in part, for some prescription sunglasses.  
She told us the sunglasses that she got had the wrong lenses. However, after she 
complained to the manufacturer she was able to get this put right. It seems this was done for 
free.
Ms M complained to BoS relying on the rights  she believes she has under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  The general  effect of Section 75 is that if Ms M has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  against  the supplier she can also bring  that claim 
against BoS provided certain conditions are met.
Further, she explained she thought that she had suffered consequential  losses  from what  
she thought was a breach of contract and wanted compensation for these too.
Ms M also suggested she should  be compensated because  the sunglasses  cost more in the 
country she bought  them  in, than in the UK. 
BoS rejected her claim.  Initially it didnt agree it had to refund her because  she wasnt out of 
pocket. The manufacturer had provided her with the correct lenses free of charge. Later  it 
clarified its position once the complaint was with us. It said in any event, it did not accept 
there had been  any breach of contract  so it had no responsibility  to give her the refund.
In my provisional decision I said in deciding what is a fair way to resolve  Ms Ms complaint, 
amongst other things,  I have to take relevant law into account.  Relevant law includes Section 
75. So I looked at this provision. I also said where there is a dispute about  what  happened, I 
have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence. 
I concluded I did not have enough  information about the contract to say what Ms M had 
contracted to buy. On this basis I could  not say on balance the contract had been breached.
Moreover, even if I agreed the contract had been  breached, which  I did not, the breach  had 
been remedied, in that she now has the lenses which  she says she wanted. And she did not 
have to pay for them.
Further although Ms M may have paid more than she needed  to for the sunglasses this was 
neither a misrepresentation nor a breach of contract.
 It followed, for these  reasons I had no proper  basis to ask BoS to take any further action. I 
indicated I did not intend to uphold  Ms Ms complaint.
I invited Ms M and BoS to respond  to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN00875742BoS responded to say it agreed  with my conclusions. Ms Ms response was that she had 
nothing further  to add.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I thank both parties  for their responses to 
my provisional decision.
Neither party has taken  the opportunity to provide any further new information. On that basis 
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  My 
reasons for coming to these conclusions are the same as set out in that provisional decision 
and which  I have summarised again  above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0087574