K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about Beckford James LLPs handling of a transfer  from his personal 
pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2011. The transfer was to allow  an 
investment into a land venture overseas.  
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my two provisional decisions,  both of which  are attached  and form part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr P wanted to use his pension fund to invest  in an overseas land venture. 
However, he couldnt make the investment through his existing personal  pension. He had to 
first transfer his pension  to a SIPP that permitted  the proposed investment. His initial  
engagement was with an unregulated business  company  S  but S couldnt arrange the 
pension transfer.  So it referred Mr P to Beckford James. Beckford James says it wasnt 
aware of Mr P, or his intentions, until a completed SIPP application form and instructions 
arrived at its offices, unsolicited, in July 2011.
Beckford James then had a telephone call with Mr P. It says it offered to advise  Mr P but he 
declined. The parties agreed to proceed  on an execution only basis. An execution  only 
agreement was signed by Mr P on 17 July and the SIPP application form was sent on to a 
SIPP provider (provider A). 
On 15 August, A wrote  to Beckford James to say that it wouldnt  be accepting the transfer 
following advice from its professional indemnity (PI) insurer. S then found a new SIPP 
provider (provider  B). New forms were  completed and sent to Beckford James to forward  
on to B. The forms were signed on 9 September. Beckford James  spoke to Mr P on 
16 September. As before,  it says it offered to advise Mr P but this was again declined  so the 
parties agreed to continue  on an execution only basis. Beckford James wrote  to Mr P on the 
same day to confirm next steps and to reiterate  that no advice had been given. 
The transfer to SIPP provider B, and the investment in the land venture, went  ahead shortly 
afterwards. The amount transferred was approximately £23,000.
In 2017 Mr P complained to Beckford James. He raised a number of concerns about the 
suitability of the underlying investment and the lack of due diligence  undertaken by 
Beckford James. Beckford James  rejected the complaint arguing (in summary) that the 
transaction had been completed on an execution only basis so it wasnt  responsible for 
ensuring its suitability  or for the due diligence checks suggested by Mr P. 
In my first provisional decision, I explained  why I was intending to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. I 
invited both parties to provide further  comments.  Mr P didnt have anything further to add. 
Beckford James made a number of comments,  which I addressed  in my second provisional 
decision. Beckford  James also responded to my second provisional  decision. I address 
these additional  comments below. Mr P didnt have  anything further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09338972The regulator (the FCA) requires firms to treat their customers fairly  and act in their best 
interests. In my first provisional decision, I found  that Beckford James hadnt  treated Mr P 
fairly or acted in his best interests by helping  to facilitate his transfer. I pointed to a number 
of reasons why Beckford  James should,  reasonably, have been concerned about the 
transaction. Crucially,  I also concluded that Beckford  James thought as much as well 
because it told Mr P during two phone calls that it wouldnt likely  have recommended the 
transfer. I therefore provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
I also said it looked like Beckford James  had strayed into giving Mr P advice. I didnt pursue 
this line of enquiry  any further because I concluded it wasnt  material to the outcome of the 
complaint. I thought the complaint should be upheld  whether the transaction was on an 
execution only basis or on an advised basis.
In response to my first provisional decision, Beckford James pointed  me to the judgment in 
Adams vs Carey , which was handed  down by the High Court after my first provisional 
decision was sent out. The judgment  prompted me to reconsider  some aspects of Mr Ps 
complaint because it covered, in part, the interplay  between execution only sales  and the 
regulatory requirement to act in a customers best interests. I thought it was therefore a 
possibility that the outcome of the complaint could be affected given the judgments findings 
in this area (although the law is only one of a number of factors  Im required to take into 
account when  reaching decisions). With this in mind, I thought  it prudent  to revisit the issue 
of whether the transaction should be treated as execution only or advised. And I concluded 
that the sale had indeed  strayed into advice. 
In coming to that conclusion, I referred  to the FCAs definition of execution  only sales :
a transaction executed  by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where 
the firm does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction  and in 
relation to which the rules on assessment of appropriateness (COBS 10) do not apply
I also referenced the notes Beckford James  took following the telephone conversations it 
had with Mr P on 10 July 2011  and 16 September 2011. The 10 July call note said the 
following (the September note was similar):
I explained  the options available to him:
To take full advice  which would mean  we would review his current situation and future 
objectives and most  likely recommend that he either stay with his current scheme or transfer 
into a risk based portfolio of managed funds which would then be reviewed on a monthly 
basis by Beckford James.
I provisionally concluded the following: 
In twice saying to Mr P that there were other options that he would  likely  have been better  
off pursuing  staying  in his personal pension  or investing in a portfolio  of managed  funds  
Beckford James was giving advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction 
because it was saying  Mr Ps proposed investment, and transaction, didnt have much  merit 
in its view. Beckford  Jamess comments,  and alternative recommendations, were also 
specific to Mr P and his situation and werent generic risk warnings as it has argued.  As 
such, Im satisfied this should be treated as an advised sale.
Ref: DRN09338973It follows from this that Beckford James had to ensure the transaction was suitable for Mr P. 
I recognise it didnt investigate Mr Ps circumstances  and needs. Nevertheless,  Beckford  
James still knew  enough  to form the opinion that it wouldnt likely have recommended the 
transfer. It said as much  at the time, as evidenced  by the telephone  notes described  
previously. So, all things considered, Im satisfied  the transaction  wasnt  suitable for Mr P. 
In response, Beckford  James referred  to the following from the FCA:
In the FCA's  view, advice requires an element of opinion  on the part of the adviser.  In effect,  
it is a recommendation  as to a course of action. Information, on the other hand, involves 
statements of fact or figures
Beckford James said it only passed  on information  to Mr P and its language  was subjunctive 
in case, using words  such as likely, might  and other options. Given  its language,  and the 
FCAs definition of advice   and, indeed, a dictionary definition of advice   it doesnt see how 
its actions can be construed as advice.
Ive considered Beckford  Jamess comments carefully. However, I think  any reasonable 
reading of the telephone notes referred to earlier would conclude that Beckford James 
wasnt just passing  on information to Mr P. It knew what Mr P wanted to do. It said it wouldnt 
likely recommend that course  of action. It recommended  two very specific alternatives, both 
of which  meant not investing in the overseas  land venture. And it did this twice.  So it was, to 
use the FCAs language quoted above,  offering an element of opinion. And it was 
recommending a course of action  to Mr P  that course of action being to not proceed as 
originally intended.
I think Beckford Jamess  concluding comments on this issue are helpful in this respect.  It 
says:
At no point, as you contend, did we say he would be better off pursuing other options as we 
did not have the information to substantiate  any advice. We did twice  state  that there could 
be other options he may wish to consider  and might be better BUT he declined.
However, Beckford James said, twice, that it would most  likely  recommend  two specific  
options rather than the one Mr P was planning  on taking. I dont see how this can be 
anything other than a firm steer that Mr P would be better off pursuing other  options.  
I think its worth revisiting at this point  Beckford Jamess argument  that it didnt have a view 
on Mr Ps proposed transfer  and subsequent investment in an overseas land venture. It was, 
in its words, agnostic, on the matter  because it didnt have enough information on Mr P to 
make any sort of judgement on the suitability of the transaction.  Im not persuaded. It clearly  
was the case  that Beckford James had limited information on Mr P because  he refused its 
offers of advice. However, as I said above,  it still seems to have had enough information to 
have indicated to Mr P that his proposed course of action wouldnt have been one it would 
likely recommend. As I said in my second  provisional decision, and repeat now, I dont know 
the reasons why Beckford James came  to that conclusion. But the fact that it did, 
demonstrably, come to that conclusion is the key point here. 
In short,  I remain satisfied  that Beckford Jamess actions did stray into advice, and its 
responsibilities should therefore be seen in that light. As such, it means Beckford Jamess 
argument about not having to assess appropriateness because it met the list of requirements  
under COBS 10.4 that meant  it didnt have to do this (for instance, in relation to the 
Ref: DRN09338974transaction being initiated by the client) doesnt  apply  here because  the first item on that list 
is for the transaction  to be execution only. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that 
wasnt the case here.
Beckford James has gone on to argue that adverts,  mailshots and other financial literature 
must therefore also be considered advice because theyre providing non-personalised 
information to individuals  which is what Beckford James said it was doing in this case. Im 
not persuaded by the parallels. Marketing materials of the like Beckford James  is referring  to 
dont consider a persons specific, imminent, plans and they dont offer up personalised 
alternatives to those plans  in the way that has happened in this case.
Beckford James has also repeated its argument that, in giving Mr P options to consider, it 
was acting in line with PRIN 2.1 (6) which requires firms to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and to treat them fairly. I covered this in both of my provisional decisions, in 
which I acknowledged the difficulties that Beckford James faced when dealing  with someone 
who didnt want advice  but who had come to it to facilitate a transaction  that it wouldnt likely  
have recommended. However, my view was  and remains   that there wasnt  an option for 
a firm to both indicate its likely recommendations and then go on to transact  on an execution 
only basis. As soon as a firm starts to comment on the merits of a transaction, it has strayed 
into giving  advice. Continuing the transaction on an execution only basis  would no longer be 
an option in such  a scenario even though  as Beckford James  has pointed  out  clients  
may well feel aggrieved to be told this.
In my second provisional decision, I said the judgment in the Adams vs Carey case didnt 
apply in this complaint. Beckford James has, however, referred  to the judgment to support its 
argument that consumers should be responsible  for their actions. It says:
There has to be a point when people are responsible for their own financial decisions and it 
is not always the fault of the adviser.
I agree.  And I may have  written something  similar  if the transaction had truly been  on an 
execution only basis. However, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied that wasnt  the 
case here and, as such, different considerations  discussed above  must apply. 
Finally, Beckford James has pointed to its good complaint record and says its actions in this 
case werent due to any unfair intent to gain financially. For the avoidance  of doubt, I havent 
questioned Beckford Jamess motives, or its overall track record. Ive limited my findings to 
the specifics of Mr Ps complaint, the evidence provided by both parties and the rules  I need 
to follow  when dealing  with complaints such as this. As a result, I think  Beckford  James  
should have properly advised  Mr P but, if that wasnt possible, it should  have said to Mr P 
that it couldnt facilitate the transaction. Either way, Im satisfied Mr P wouldnt have 
transacted as a result. It follows that I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr P (as far as reasonably 
possible) in the position he would  now be in if hadnt  been  for Beckford Jamess actions.
Its not possible to say precisely what Mr P would have done  differently. But I take the view 
that he wouldnt have  transferred to the SIPP and invested in the land venture but would, 
instead, have  retained his personal pension plan and the funds it held prior to the transfer. I 
also note that staying in the personal  pension was one of the options Beckford James  would 
Ref: DRN09338975have recommended. With this in mind, and taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied 
what Ive set out below is a fair and reasonable approach to compensation. 
what should Beckford  James do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Beckford  James must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Beckford James should also pay interest as set out below.  
If this shows that redress is due, then this should  be paid to Mr Ps pension  plan.  The 
payment should  allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a deduction of 15%. The 
payment would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which 
would be tax free and the rest would have been taxed according to his likely tax paying 
status in retirement   presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects  this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsperformance 
of the funds 
Mr P was 
already in 
prior to 
transferdate 
investment  
commenced date of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from date of final 
decision  to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days 
of the business 
being  notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual value of the SIPP at the end date. 
My aim is to return Mr P to the position he would have been  in but for the actions of Beckford 
James. This is complicated where  an investment  is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on 
the open market) as appears to be the case here. It would be difficult to know the actual value 
of the investment. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Beckford  James should  take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be included  in the 
actual value of the SIPP used in the calculation.
If Beckford James is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should 
Ref: DRN09338976be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Beckford James  may wish to require that 
Mr P provides an undertaking to pay Beckford James any amount he may receive  from the 
investment in the future.  That undertaking must  allow  for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Beckford James will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. This means Beckford  James will need to contact Mr Ps original 
pension provider to obtain this value.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept  if Beckford James totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end when determining the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
If the SIPP transfer hadnt  gone ahead Mr P would most likely have remained invested  
in his existing  plan and the same funds.
Mr P has not yet used  his pension plan to purchase an annuity.
The SIPP only exists because of the underlying investment. In order  for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees prevented, this investment needs to be removed. But if Beckford James 
cant buy it Mr P is faced  with future  SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume five years of future 
SIPP fees. So, if Beckford  James cant or wont buy the investment,  it should pay an amount 
equal to five years of SIPP  fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint. Beckford  James  LLP must 
now pay Mr P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 November 2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09338977COPY OF SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P has complained about Beckford James  LLPs handling of a transfer from his personal pension to 
a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2011. The transfer was to allow an investment into a land 
venture overseas.  
background
A brief summary of the circumstances leading to this complaint,  and my initial conclusions,  were set 
out in my first provisional decision, a copy of which is attached. 
In short, Mr P wanted  to use his pension  fund to invest in an overseas  land venture. However, he 
couldnt make  the investment through his existing personal pension. He had to first transfer his 
pension to a SIPP that permitted the proposed investment.  His initial engagement was with an 
unregulated business   company S  but S couldnt  arrange  the pension transfer.  So it referred  Mr P 
to Beckford James. Beckford  James says it wasnt aware  of Mr P, or his intentions, until a completed 
SIPP application form and instructions arrived at its offices, unsolicited, in July 2011.
Beckford James then had a telephone  call with Mr P. It says it offered to advise Mr P but he declined.  
The parties  agreed to proceed on an execution only basis. An execution  only agreement was signed  
by Mr P on 17 July and the SIPP application form was sent on to a SIPP provider  (provider A). 
On 15 August, A wrote  to Beckford James to say that it wouldnt  be accepting the transfer following 
advice from its professional  indemnity (PI) insurer. S then found a new SIPP provider (provider  B). 
New forms were completed and sent to Beckford James to forward on to B. The forms were signed on 
9 September. Beckford James spoke to Mr P on 16 September. As before, it says it offered to advise 
Mr P but this was again  declined so the parties agreed to continue  on an execution  only basis.  
Beckford James wrote to Mr P on the same day to confirm next steps and to reiterate that no advice 
had been given. 
The transfer  to SIPP provider B, and the investment in the land venture, went ahead  shortly 
afterwards. The amount  transferred  was approximately  £23,000.
In 2017 Mr P complained  to Beckford James. He raised  a number of concerns about the suitability  of 
the underlying  investment  and the lack of due diligence  undertaken by Beckford  James. Beckford  
James rejected the complaint arguing (in summary) that the transaction  had been completed on an 
execution only basis so it wasnt responsible for ensuring its suitability or for the due diligence checks  
suggested by Mr P. 
In my first provisional decision, I explained  why I was intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I referred  
to the regulatory requirement  for a firm to treat its customers fairly and act in their best interests. I 
concluded Beckford James hadnt done  this in Mr Ps case.  
I invited both parties to provide further comments. Mr P didnt have anything further to add. Beckford 
James made a number of comments, which I address below.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to uphold Mr Ps complaint although 
my reasoning is slightly different from my earlier provisional  decision. I explain why below.
Ref: DRN09338978overview of my first provisional decision
The regulator  requires  firms to treat their customers fairly and act in their best interests. In my first 
provisional decision,  I found  that Beckford James hadnt  treated Mr P fairly or acted  in his best 
interests by helping to facilitate his transfer. I came to this conclusion because: 
1.Beckford  James would,  or should, have been aware  of the following:
Mr P was transferring  a relatively modest  amount  even though the higher cost of a SIPP, and 
the cost of transferring,  typically make  such transactions the preserve of much larger fund 
values. 
Mr P was planning to invest in plots of land overseas. Schemes  like this would  ordinarily  be 
considered quite  high-risk.  
Mr P was receiving  recommendations from an unregulated source  (firm S). 
2.Even though it didnt have the opportunity to investigate  Mr Ps circumstances and needs, 
Beckford James still knew  enough  to have  twice  indicated  to Mr P that it would likely recommend 
two other options  not transferring or investing in different assets   rather  than the one he was 
proposing to take. It told Mr P this during telephone calls on 10 July and 9 September. Beckford 
Jamess file note for the 10 July call is as follows  (the September note is similar):
I explained  the options available  to him:
To take full advice which would  mean we would review his current situation and future objectives 
and most likely recommend  that he either stay with his current scheme or transfer into a risk based 
portfolio of managed  funds  which would then be reviewed on a monthly basis by Beckford  James.
I thought if Beckford James didnt think it was right for Mr P to transfer, it cant  have  been acting  
fairly or in his best interests if it nonetheless helped  him to achieve that.
3.SIPP provider A decided against receiving  Mr Ps transfer monies following advice  from its PI 
insurer. I thought the explanation given by provider  A for not wanting  to transact should have given 
Beckford James another reason to be concerned about the transfer.
So I thought there were more than enough  reasons for Beckford James to have been concerned 
about the transaction. Crucially, I concluded Beckford James thought as much as well because it told 
Mr P it wouldnt likely  have recommended the transfer.  I therefore  provisionally decided to uphold  
Mr Ps complaint. 
Beckford James provided a detailed response. I have considered  everything it has said. However, as 
part of its response, Beckford James pointed me to the judgment in the Adams  v Carey case  which 
was handed down by the High Court  after my first provisional decision was sent out. The judgment 
has prompted  me to reconsider some aspects of Mr Ps complaint. As a result,  some of the comments 
made by Beckford James  are no longer relevant so I wont be addressing everything it has said in my 
decision. However,  I am aware that I will be covering new ground, so Beckford James (and Mr P) can 
respond to my comments.
Adams v Carey
The judgment  in the Adams v Carey case was handed down by the High Court after my first 
provisional decision.  Beckford  James has referred to it to support its position  that a client entering  into 
an execution only agreement should be accountable for their decisions.
The judgment  covers several areas but the relevant section  in relation to Beckford  Jamess 
arguments is headed The COBS Claim and covers the interplay between  execution  only sales and 
COBS 2.1.1R (the best interests rule referred to earlier and in my first provisional decision). 
Ref: DRN09338979In short, the claimant in Adams v Carey (a consumer) argued that the defendant (his SIPP provider) 
had breached  COBS 2.1.1R  in establishing his SIPP, in agreeing to take an unsuitable investment 
into his SIPP, and in failing to follow guidance contained in the FCAs  thematic review  of SIPPs. The 
defendants argument was that it set up and administered  the SIPP  on an execution only basis, so its 
duties to the client  were therefore limited and its obligations under COBS 2.1.1R should  only be seen 
in that light. The judge found  in favour of the defendant.
In my provisional decision,  I treated Mr Ps transaction as being execution only.  However,  I also said it 
looked like Beckford  James  had strayed into giving  Mr P advice. I didnt pursue this line of enquiry any 
further because I concluded it wasnt material  to the outcome of the complaint. I thought the complaint 
should be upheld  whether the transaction was on an execution only basis or on an advised  basis.
Adams vs Carey  has changed my thinking on my approach to this issue.  The judgment examines the 
reach of COBS in execution  only cases. So Id need to carefully consider the judgment, and any read-
across it might have,  if I was treating  Mr Ps transaction on an execution  only basis. Whilst  the law is 
only one of a number of things Im required to take into account when reaching decisions,  its a 
possibility the outcome  of the complaint would be affected  as a result.  The issue of whether  the 
transaction should be treated as execution only or advised,  therefore, becomes  more  critical. With this 
in mind, I think it prudent to revisit the matter. 
The FCAs  definition  of execution-only is as follows:
a transaction executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where the firm does not 
give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction and in relation to which 
the rules on assessment of appropriateness (COBS  10) do not apply
In twice saying to Mr P that there were other options that he would likely have been better  off pursuing  
 staying in his personal  pension or investing in a portfolio of managed funds   Beckford  James was 
giving advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction because it was saying Mr Ps 
proposed investment, and transaction, didnt have much merit in its view. Beckford  Jamess 
comments, and alternative recommendations, were also specific to Mr P and his situation and werent 
generic risk warnings as it has argued. As such, Im satisfied this should be treated as an advised  
sale.
It follows from this that Beckford James had to ensure the transaction  was suitable for Mr P. I 
recognise it didnt investigate Mr Ps circumstances and needs. Nevertheless, Beckford James still 
knew enough  to form the opinion  that it wouldnt likely have recommended the transfer. It said as 
much at the time, as evidenced by the telephone notes  described previously. So, all things 
considered, Im satisfied  the transaction wasnt suitable  for Mr P. 
Beckford James has said it didnt  have  enough  information  to have formed  any sort of reasonable 
judgment about the transfer. By way of example, it says a relatively small transfer could be low risk if 
its just a small part of a persons total pension. But, because Beckford James didnt have this 
information for Mr P, or any understanding of his attitude to risk, it wasnt able to make a fair 
assessment. It says it is now being judged in hindsight, using information that Mr P has now provided 
 but didnt provide at the time  and using contemporary standards to judge actions taken  nearly a 
decade ago.
However, Beckford  James  knew when it initially started to work with Mr P that it wouldnt likely have 
recommended the transfer. I dont know why it came to that conclusion (although, as outlined  in my 
earlier provisional decision,  there were several  areas of potential concern). The key point is that it did 
come to that conclusion. So Im satisfied Beckford James isnt being  judged  using contemporary 
standards and information that has only subsequently come to light.  Its its own actions, taken with 
information available  to it at that time,  thats  telling here. 
Ref: DRN093389710Beckford James has also argued that offering up possible alternatives to the transfer should  be 
considered as treating  Mr P fairly (as per PRIN 2.1). In Beckford Jamess  view,  providing some 
information on alternative courses of action must have  been better than not providing that information 
at all. However, the rules didnt allow for a watered-down advice process  of the type Beckford  James 
seems to be hinting at. As outlined  above, as soon as a firm starts to comment  on the merits of a 
transaction, it has strayed into giving advice. In such a situation, continuing  the transaction on an 
execution-only basis is no longer an option. As Beckford James has pointed  out, Im sure Mr P 
wouldnt have taken kindly to being an advised client. But, in the circumstances, helping  him proceed 
with the transaction  in the way it did wasnt the right response.
COBS 9.2.6 is important  here. It says a firm shouldnt  make a recommendation if it doesnt have the 
necessary information to assess suitability. So Beckford James  was in breach of COBS 9.2.6 if it felt 
obliged to treat this as an advised sale but found Mr P wasnt willing to give enough information for it 
to make a fully-fledged recommendation, rendering  it only able to hint at what it thought he should  
probably do instead. This underlines why declining to act at all, even in the face of likely  opposition 
from Mr P, was the only reasonable option at this point.
Finally on this issue, Beckford James  has argued that the approach it took (by which  I take to mean  a 
lighter-touch approach to advice) is now a concept that has been formalised by the regulator for 
transfers from defined benefit pension schemes.  I make  no comment on Beckford  Jamess 
interpretation of the current regulatory landscape, and how it would  apply in a case  like this, other 
than to say I have to consider the rules as they were at the time, not how theyve subsequently 
evolved. 
Role of other parties
Beckford James remains disappointed that it is being  held responsible for what  happened given the 
involvement and (in its view) culpability of other parties. It even says S colluded with SIPP 
provider B.
However, my position was  and remains  that Beckford  James was in a position to have stopped 
the transfer and, as a regulated entity, it should have done so. For the reasons  given above, Beckford  
James strayed into giving Mr P advice. So it had a regulatory duty to provide Mr P with suitable advice 
or, if that wasnt possible,  decline to act on Mr Ps behalf. It did neither. As such, Im satisfied 
Beckford James is responsible for the losses Mr P may have suffered  as a result.
SIPP fees
In my first provisional decision, I set out my thoughts  on what  fair compensation  should be in Mr Ps 
case. I said (amongst other things) that Beckford James should pay Mr P five years of SIPP fees if it 
wasnt able, or wasnt willing,  to take ownership  of the asset that prompted Mr Ps complaint. I said 
this because the SIPP  wouldnt have been opened, and Mr P wouldnt  be paying its fees,  if it wasnt 
for Beckford  Jamess actions. But closing  the SIPP  may prove  difficult if the underlying asset is 
illiquid.
In response, Beckford James says it should only pay two years of SIPP fees. It says this is because 
our approach in the past has been along these lines and because two years should  be enough  time to 
realise the assets, and close the SIPP, given there is some secondary market demand.
I should  point out that paying five years  of SIPP fees only applies if Beckford  James cant, or wont,  
take on the underlying asset in the SIPP. If it is able, and willing, to purchase the asset then it doesnt 
need to refund the SIPP  fees. However,  as outlined  in my provisional  decision, Beckford  James would  
only have 28 days to pay compensation before interest starts  to apply.
If Beckford James cant, or wont,  take ownership  of the asset, then my original instructions  stand. 
Even if there is some secondary market in the asset, I still think  it reasonable to allow Mr P the five 
years to arrange the closure of his SIPP.  The reason  its an issue in the first place is because  of 
Ref: DRN093389711Beckford Jamess actions, so I dont  think it unreasonable to be cautious in this regard. And, of 
course, Mr P may not be able to sell the investment (notwithstanding Beckford  Jamess comments), in 
which case five years  is fair and reasonable compensation for having to keep the SIPP open for an 
indeterminate amount of time.
In short, Im satisfied  my approach to compensation is fair and reasonable  given the circumstances of 
the complaint and in line with what we would award on other complaints with similar  issues.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr P (as far as reasonably possible) 
in the position he would now be in if hadnt  been for Beckford Jamess actions.
Its not possible  to say precisely  what Mr P would have done differently.  But I take the view that he 
wouldnt have transferred to the SIPP  and invested in the land venture but would, instead,  have 
retained his personal pension plan and the funds  it held prior to the transfer. I also note that staying in 
the personal  pension was one of the options Beckford James would have recommended. With this in 
mind, and taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied what Ive set out below is a fair and 
reasonable approach to compensation.  
what should Beckford James do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Beckford James  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark shown below  and pay 
the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is 
greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Beckford James should also pay interest as set out below. 
If this shows  that redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ps pension plan. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The compensation  shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly  to Mr P as a lump sum after making  a deduction of 15%. The payment would  
otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits,  25% of which  would be tax free and the rest 
would have been taxed  according  to his likely tax paying status in retirement   presumed to be 
20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end date) additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsperformance  of 
the funds Mr P 
was already  in 
prior to transferdate 
investment 
commenced  date of my final 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of final 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Ref: DRN093389712actual value
This means  the actual  value of the SIPP at the end date. 
My aim is to return Mr P to the position he would  have been  in but for the actions of Beckford James.  This 
is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market)  as 
appears to be the case here. It would  be difficult to know the actual value of the investment. In such a 
case the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Beckford  James should  
take ownership of the illiquid investment  by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be included in the actual  value of the SIPP used in the calculation.
If Beckford James is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the actual value  should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose  of calculation.  Beckford  James may wish to require  that Mr P 
provides an undertaking  to pay Beckford James any amount he may receive from the investment in 
the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred  on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Beckford James will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark. This means Beckford James will need to contact  Mr Ps original pension  provider to 
obtain this value.  If either party thinks this is an insurmountable problem, they should say so in 
response to this provisional decision.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Beckford James totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end when determining the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
If the SIPP transfer hadnt gone ahead Mr P would  most likely have remained invested in his 
existing plan and the same funds.
Mr P has not yet used  his pension plan to purchase  an annuity.
The SIPP only exists  because  of the underlying investment.  In order for the SIPP to be closed  and further  
SIPP fees prevented, this investment needs  to be removed.  But if Beckford James cant buy it Mr P is 
faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Beckford 
James cant  or wont buy the investment, it should pay an amount equal  to five years  of SIPP fees based 
on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated  using a nil value for the investment.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, and subject  to any further comments and evidence I may receive, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
If I do uphold this complaint, I will be asking Beckford James LLP to calculate and pay compensation  
as set out above.
Ref: DRN093389713COPY OF FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
Mr P has complained about Beckford James  LLPs handling of a transfer from his personal pension to 
a new self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) in 2011. This was to allow  an investment into a land 
venture overseas.  
background
In 2011, Mr P wanted to use his pension fund to invest in an overseas  land venture. His initial 
engagement was with an unregulated business (company  S). However, he couldnt  make the 
investment through  his existing personal pension.  He had to first transfer his pension to a SIPP that 
permitted the proposed investment. S couldnt arrange this so it referred Mr P to Beckford  James to 
facilitate the pension transfer. Beckford James wasnt aware of Mr P, or his intentions, until a 
completed SIPP application  form and instructions arrived at its offices, unsolicited,  in July 2011. 
Beckford James had a telephone conversation with Mr P on 10 July. It offered to advise Mr P but he 
declined. The parties agreed to proceed on an execution  only basis. An execution  only agreement 
was signed by Mr P on 17 July and the SIPP  application form was sent on to a SIPP provider  
(provider A). 
On 15 August, A wrote  to Beckford James to say that it wouldnt  be accepting the transfer following 
advice from its professional  indemnity (PI) insurer. S then found a new SIPP provider (provider  B). 
New forms were completed and sent to Beckford James to forward on to B. The forms were signed on 
9 September. Beckford James spoke to Mr P on 16 September. As before, it offered  to advise  Mr P 
but this was again  turned  down so the parties agreed to continue  on an execution  only basis.  
Beckford James wrote to Mr P on the same day to confirm next steps and to reiterate that no advice 
had been given. 
The transfer  to SIPP provider B, and investment in the land venture, went  ahead shortly afterwards.  
The amount transferred  was approximately  £23,000.
In 2017 Mr P complained  to Beckford James. He raised  a number of concerns about the suitability  of 
the transaction and the lack of due diligence undertaken by Beckford James. Beckford James 
rejected the complaint arguing (in summary)  that the transaction had been completed on an execution  
only basis so it wasnt responsible for ensuring suitability or for the due diligence checks suggested by 
Mr P. 
 
Mr P referred his complaint  to us. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld.  Beckford  
James disagreed so the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
My starting point here is the regulators handbook that sets out the principles and requirements that a 
regulated business (such  as Beckford James)  must  adhere to. Of particular interest  are the regulators 
principles as outlined in PRIN 2.1, one of which  says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  fairly.
And the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS),  which states that:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance with the best interests of its client 
(the client's best interests rule). (COBS 2.1)
Ref: DRN093389714The funds Mr P was transferring were relatively modest. I dont  think it would  be a stretch to say the 
higher fees and charges  associated with a SIPP, and the actual cost of transferring, make transferring  
to a SIPP,  typically, the preserve of much  larger  fund values. Beckford James was also aware that 
Mr P was planning to invest in plots of land overseas.  Such schemes  would generally  be considered  
quite high-risk. And Mr P was receiving recommendations  from an unregulated source (firm S). 
Beckford James had even  done some basic research  on S to satisfy itself that the transaction  wasnt 
part of a pension scam, so its likely it would have known  about Ss status.
So Mr P appears  to have been receiving encouragement from an unregulated source to transfer a 
relatively small pension fund into a product that was likely to be significantly  more expensive than his 
existing personal pension. And he was intending to transfer in order to invest  in a high-risk overseas 
land venture. As such, Im satisfied there were enough reasons here to say the transaction should  
have rung alarm bells with Beckford James.
I add in to the above the actions of SIPP  provider  A which  ultimately  decided against receiving  Mr Ps 
transfer monies. The letter  from A to Beckford James dated 15 August said the following:
We have recently reviewed our investment  proposition and following  advice from our PI insurers  we 
have been advised not to proceed with any further investments into [the land investment in question]
In itself, a business walking away from a transaction doesnt  necessarily mean its flawed in some 
way. There  may be a number of a reasons  why a SIPP  provider decides  against accepting new 
business. But I think the above statement suggests there is something specific about Mr Ps situation 
or proposed  investment that has prompted the change of heart. It doesnt appear to have been a 
more generic trading decision. And the fact that a PI insurer prompted the rethink points in the same 
direction. That is, the refusal was due to the potential risks of this particular transaction rather than a 
more generic business  decision. On balance, therefore,  I think the decision  taken by A, and the 
reasons it gave for that decision, should have caused Beckford James to have seriously questioned 
Mr Ps transfer.  
So there were more  than enough reasons here for Beckford James to have reconsidered  its actions. 
Transferring a relatively small amount into a SIPP and knowing that the underlying investment was 
going to be relatively high risk and knowing  Mr P had been referred by an unregulated  introducer  and 
knowing at least one SIPP provider had doubts about the transaction is, in my view, too long a list to 
ignore. 
Its also telling that my conclusions  on this arent any different  from those reached by Beckford James 
back in 2011. Even though it didnt  have the opportunity  to investigate Mr Ps circumstances and 
needs, Beckford James still knew enough to have indicated to Mr P  on two occasions  that it would 
likely recommend two other options  ahead of the one he was proposing to take.  The first time it told 
Mr P this was during the 10 July telephone call which was recorded in a file note as follows:
I explained  the options available  to him:
To take full advice which would  mean we would review his current situation and future objectives and 
most likely recommend that he either stay with his current scheme  or transfer into a risk based 
portfolio of managed  funds  which would then be reviewed on a monthly basis by Beckford  James.  
The second  time was during a telephone conversation  on 9 September. The file note is worded  along 
very similar lines to the one above. It all suggests Beckford James knew Mr Ps proposed  transaction  
wasnt right for him. And if Beckford James didnt think it was right for Mr P, I fail to see how it was 
treating him fairly or acting in his best interests by letting the transfer and investment go ahead.
Given all the above, Im minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Beckford James has argued strongly that it gave  no advice and the transaction was carried out on an 
execution only basis. It says all it essentially  did was receive the completed SIPP  application forms 
from S and then post them  off to the new SIPP provider. It said it made it clear to Mr P that it wasnt 
Ref: DRN093389715providing advice and ensured Mr P signed an execution only agreement. It also says it followed 
guidelines set by the regulator  for execution only transactions.  And Beckford James quotes the 
following from COBS  10 which it says is applicable in this case:
"A firm is not required to ask its clients to provide  information or asses  appropriateness if the service 
only consists  of execution and/or the reception and transmission of client's  orders, with or without 
ancillary services,  it relates to particular  financial  instruments and is provided at the initiative  of the 
client. 
In essence, Beckford  James is saying that it did enough to fulfil its regulatory obligations  with regards 
to execution only transactions  and, because  it was an execution only transaction, it shouldnt be held 
responsible for what  followed as a result.
First of all, with regards COBS 10, I dont think Beckford  James did fulfil its duties. The paragraph 
quoted by Beckford James  is, in isolation, misleading because COBS 10 goes on to say that the 
appropriateness of the product should be assessed if the product  in question cant be classified as 
non-complex (in other words, the product  is complex). Im satisfied this would  apply here meaning 
the appropriateness of what Mr P wanted to do should have  been considered  by Beckford James.  
And, for the reasons given above, I dont  think  Beckford  James could, reasonably, have concluded 
that it was appropriate for Mr P. Under COBS 10, this wouldnt necessarily have precluded the 
transfer taking place.  But Beckford James would  have to have  warned Mr P that it wasnt appropriate,  
and it would have had to have considered  whether to go ahead having  regard to the circumstances.  
I dont think a reasonable consideration of the circumstances would  have concluded that the transfer 
should have proceeded. 
However, as outlined  above,  theres also the broader issue here regarding a businesss  obligations to 
treat customers fairly and act in their best interests. PRIN 2.1 and COBS 2 are clear  on this. For the 
reasons given  above,  I dont think Beckford  James  did treat Mr P fairly or act in his best interests.  The 
fact that Mr P was keen to go ahead with the transfer, refused the offer of advice, and signed  
execution only paperwork  doesnt absolve Beckford James  of these  broader regulatory 
responsibilities. 
This was broadly the line our adjudicator  took. In response Beckford  James questioned the 
circumstances that would allow an execution only transaction to take place given a customer  such as 
Mr P  seemingly committed to a course of action and willing to go it alone  wouldnt be allowed  to 
transact in this way. In Beckford Jamess  view, theres a danger of the industry  coming  to a standstill 
if consumers are prevented  from acting independently. I have some sympathy with Beckford James 
on this. It can be a difficult balancing act. However,  in this particular case, I dont think the situation 
was that difficult to judge.  There was an accumulation  of evidence that really  should have pointed in 
one direction  Beckford  James should have chosen to not facilitate Mr Ps transfer.
what would Mr P have done?
Beckford James says Mr P would have found another business to facilitate the transfer and 
investment if it had refused  to assist him. So it is arguing that it hasnt caused Mr P any detriment 
because Mr P would have  taken the same action anyway, whatever Beckford  Jamess involvement.
Of course, theres no way of knowing what would  have  happened in such  a scenario. However,  I think  
Mr P would have taken  on board the fact that a professional, regulated, adviser wasnt willing  to help 
him, especially as SIPP provider A had already taken the same stance. And even  if Mr P had tried 
other firms, they would have been operating under the same regulatory obligations  as Beckford 
James so he would likely  have  ended  up in the same position  he wouldnt  have been able to 
transfer. It is interesting to note that Beckford James says it subsequently declined  to act on referrals 
from S on the advice of its PI insurer and a firm of compliance advisers.  I think this is telling because  it 
suggests others within the industry  were beginning  to treat this business with caution.  So, all things 
considered, I think Beckford Jamess involvement is crucial here. I think it unlikely Mr P would have 
transferred without it.
Ref: DRN093389716Other issues
For the sake of completeness, its worth pointing out that there is a strong case for saying Beckford 
James strayed from execution only and actually  gave advice to Mr P. I raise  this because  a significant 
amount of the correspondence between our adjudicator  and Beckford James was on this subject,  with 
our adjudicator arguing that Beckford James  did give advice and Beckford  James arguing to the 
contrary.
The FCAs  definition  of execution-only is:
a transaction executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where the firm does not 
give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction and in relation to which 
the rules on assessment of appropriateness (COBS  10) do not apply
In saying  to Mr P on two occasions that there were  other options  that he would have been better off 
pursuing (staying in the personal  pension or investing in a portfolio of managed  funds), Beckford  
James was, implicitly, saying to Mr P that his proposed  course  of action wasnt optimal. It was, 
therefore, straying into advising on the merits  of the transaction. 
I understand why Beckford James wanted  to suggest alternative courses of action so my point here isnt 
to be critical. My point  is to show the nature of the transaction wasnt as clear-cut as Beckford  James 
has argued. Either way, it doesnt alter the outcome  of the complaint because  the requirements for an 
advised sale wouldnt have  been met either (not least because  Mr P wouldnt have given Beckford 
James the opportunity to advise him properly). 
The above also shows the problems Beckford James was facing here.  It knew Mr Ps transfer wasnt 
the best course of action   but it also knew it couldnt advise him of this. Highlighting alternatives that 
it would have  recommended may have seemed  a pragmatic compromise. But doing  so ran the risk of 
straying into an advice process that it was never in a position to properly deliver  on. In the 
circumstances the simplest,  and correct, thing to have done would have  been to have refused to 
facilitate Mr Ps transfer.
the role of other parties
Beckford James is also disappointed that it is being held responsible for what happened given the 
involvement and (in its view) culpability of other parties. 
I recognise Beckford  James  wasnt responsible for Mr Ps interest in the overseas  land venture  or for 
initiating Mr Ps transfer to a SIPP. It looks  like it was a combination of S and Mr Ps friends  that 
prompted him down this path.  And I recognise Beckford James didnt choose the two SIPP  providers 
either. I also take on board  Beckford Jamess comments about failings  at SIPP provider  B that have 
subsequently come to light. So I understand why Beckford James is disappointed  that its now 
accountable for what happened. 
However, Beckford  James  could have put a stop to the transaction.  And it should have put a stop to 
the transaction because, as a regulated  firm, it had certain obligations  to fulfil. If it had acted  in 
accordance with those regulatory obligations  and treated Mr P fairly and in line with his best interests,  
Im satisfied the transfer to the SIPP  and the associated investment wouldnt have gone ahead. I 
therefore consider it fair and reasonable to hold Beckford James  responsible for any losses that Mr P 
may have suffered as a result. 
It follows from the above that my provisional  decision is to uphold Mr Ps complaint against Beckford  
James LLP.
Ref: DRN093389717fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr P (as far as reasonably possible) 
in the position he would now be in if hadnt  been for Beckford Jamess actions.
Its not possible  to say precisely  what Mr P would have done differently.  But I take the view that he 
wouldnt have transferred to the SIPP  and invested in the land venture but would, instead,  have 
retained his personal pension plan and the funds  it held prior to the transfer. With this in mind, and 
taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied what Ive set out below is a fair and reasonable 
approach to compensation. 
what should Beckford James do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Beckford James  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark shown below  and pay 
the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is 
greater than the notional value , no compensation is payable.
Beckford James should also pay interest as set out below. 
If this shows  that redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ps pension plan. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The compensation  shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly  to Mr P as a lump sum after making  a deduction of 15%. The payment would  
otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits,  25% of which  would be tax free and the rest 
would have been taxed  according  to his likely tax paying status in retirement   presumed to be 
20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end date) additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsperformance  of 
the funds he 
was already  in 
prior to transferdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision  
to date of settlement 
(if compensation  is 
not paid within 28 
days  of the business 
being  notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
My aim is to return Mr P to the position he would  have been  in but for the actions of Beckford James.  This 
is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market)  as 
appears to be the case here. It would  be difficult to know the actual value of the investment. In such a 
case the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Beckford  James should  
take ownership of the illiquid investment  by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the total payable to Mr P and the balance be paid as I 
have set out above.
Ref: DRN093389718If Beckford James is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the actual value  should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose  of calculation.  Beckford  James may wish to require  that Mr P 
provides an undertaking  to pay Beckford James any amount he may receive from the investment in 
the future. 
notional value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the notional value  calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the notional 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Beckford James totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
If the SIPP transfer hadnt gone ahead Mr P would  most likely have remained invested in his 
existing plan and the same funds.
Mr P has not yet used  his pension plan to purchase  an annuity.
The SIPP only exists  because  of the underlying investment.  In order for the SIPP to be closed  and further  
SIPP fees prevented, this investment needs  to be removed.  But if Beckford James cant buy it Mr P is 
faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Beckford 
James cant  buy the investment, it should pay an amount  equal  to five years of SIPP fees based on the 
current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
my provisional  decision 
For the reasons  given  above, and subject  to any further comments and evidence I may receive, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
If I do uphold this complaint, I will be asking Beckford James LLP to calculate and pay compensation  
as set out above.
Ref: DRN0933897