K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Eridge Underwriting Agency  Ltd cancelled her motor insurance policy 
and declined  her claim.  
background 
Miss M made a claim following  the total loss of her car. Eridge then found that she wasnt  the 
cars registered keeper and legal owner. It said if it had known this, it wouldnt have offered a 
policy so it cancelled Miss Ms policy, declined her claim and retained her premiums. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought 
Eridge was entitled to cancel the policy and decline the claim under the relevant legislation 
as Miss M had misrepresented the registered  keeper of the car. He thought Miss M and the 
cars owner  werent in an acceptable  relationship as defined by the policy,  so cover wouldnt 
apply. But he thought Miss Ms misrepresentation had been careless and so Eridge should 
refund her premiums with interest.
Eridge agreed  to do this. Miss M replied that she wanted an ombudsmans review,  so her 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we 
take into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear question  when 
the policy was taken out. We check  that the information given would affect whether a policy 
was offered. And we check whether the informant  has acted carelessly or deliberately in 
making the misrepresentation.
Ive listened to the call Miss Ms father made  to a broker to take out the policy  on her behalf. 
The agent  confirmed  that a quote had been obtained from on online  comparison site. Ive 
looked at this site and I can see that Miss M would have been  asked if she was the cars 
registered keeper  and legal owner. The broker ran through  the details that had been 
provided including that Miss M was to be the cars registered owner and keeper. This was 
then stated on the policys Statement of Fact that Miss M was asked to check  for accuracy. 
But I can see from the cars registration documents and its finance agreement  that the cars 
legal owner at the time the policy was taken out was a finance company and the registered 
keeper was Miss Ms then fianc. So I think Miss M was asked a clear question  about the 
cars ownership and registered keeper and she answered this incorrectly.
Eridge has provided  us with its underwriting criteria.  Within  this are details of what Eridge will 
consider to be an acceptable  relationship between the proposer and owner and registered 
keeper of the car. The finance company  is deemed  to be an acceptable relationship  to the 
proposer, so this wouldnt be a reason for Eridge to refuse cover.
Ref: DRN04184282However, an acceptable relationship between the proposer and registered keeper would be 
spouse, civil partner,  common  law spouse and common law partner. Miss M said she and 
her fianc were common law partners at the time.  But I havent seen evidence that they were 
living together at the time the policy was taken out. In fact, the address given on the cars 
registration document and finance agreement is different  to Miss Ms. 
So I think there isnt evidence that Miss M and the cars registered keeper met the 
acceptable relationship criteria for cover to be provided at the time the policy was taken out. 
So I think Eridge has shown that it wouldnt have offered cover if Miss M had answered the 
question about  the cars  registered keeper correctly. And so I think, under the relevant 
legislation, it was entitled to cancel the policy and decline the claim. 
Eridge has agreed  that this misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate. I think  
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I think it should refund Miss Ms 
premiums. As shes been without her money for some time, I think it should  add interest  to 
this refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Eridge Underwriting Agency 
Ltd to refund  Miss Ms premiums, adding interest  at 8% simple per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement, as its already agreed to do. HM Revenue & Customs 
requires Eridge to withhold income tax from that interest. It must give Miss M a certificate 
showing how much  its taken off if she asks for one.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0418428