K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Ms E says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Ms E didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. After  Ms E had 
completed an online application for her credit card, she had to sign a credit agreement. 
This included a separate section about  PPI and she had to tick a box and sign separately 
to confirm she wanted to take it out.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Ms E so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms E got the information she needed to decide  if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover,  despite  the generous sick pay she says she would have received from her 
employer. 
Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms E paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Ms E back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  Halifax  has already paid this to 
Ms E.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0306257