K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr S says Nationwide Building Society, trading as Cheshire Building Society, mis-sold 
this policy  to him. 
For consistency Ill refer to Nationwide throughout this decision.
background
The MPPI covered  Mr S in the event of him being  unable to work or losing  his job. It cost 
£15.98 per month and would have paid a monthly  benefit of £222 in the event of a 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld but Nationwide  disagreed  so 
it falls to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
This policy was sold during a meeting about  Mr Ss mortgage application. Our adjudicator 
thought that this type of MPPI policy wasnt right for Mr S because  he appeared to have  
quite moderate  means.  For example, Mr S only had the minimum statutory sick pay 
entitlements with his job and no savings to fall back on. 
However, the MPPI  policy  Mr S was sold came  with certain conditions.  So if Mr S lost his 
job, he would need to wait for 90 days before he could  claim on the MPPI policy for 
unemployment. The adjudicator thought this hadnt been explained well enough to him.
I agree  with our adjudicator on this point.  And I also think the relevant section on the 
mortgage application form was very poorly  worded. As such,  I think there are other 
significant weaknesses  in the sales process too. 
It seems  to me that Mr S was sold the MPPI on the basis of what on the section of the 
mortgage application form which was headed Payment Protection  Insurance. But in my 
view, this section  was very poorly set out. There was no obvious  yes or no choice  which 
made it clear  there was an option about the MPPI. And all that was required to accept and 
buy the policy seems to have been  for Mr S to enter his name into a box. No signature was 
required at this point  on the form. 
More specifically, there was no explanation, or even suggestion, that claiming  for 
unemployment under  the policy would only be allowed if 90 days  had elapsed. Any basic 
assessment of Mr Ss financial  situation  would have shown this to be a likely problem. Hed 
only been in his job for just over a year and I think his ability to make  ends  meet for that long 
would have been difficult. He had no other  sick pay with his job and no other means, so I 
think hed have struggled to cope for the 90 day period.
Ref: DRN08557972Nationwide says this was a non-advised sale and it was Mr Ss responsibility  to decide 
whether or not he wanted MPPI. That may be the case but Nationwide had a responsibility to 
make sure the information it provided was clear  enough for him to make an informed 
decision. I dont  think Nationwide did this and I find it highly unlikely Mr S would have been 
invited to read through all the terms and conditions of the MPPI policy  whilst  he was 
arranging his new mortgage. 
Given the form was so poorly  set out and lacking in sufficient information about this 
important feature of the cover, I need to think about whether or not this would have changed 
anything. In short, I think it would have  I dont think Mr S would have wanted to buy the 
cover. I think hed have  realised that for 90 days he could be in a vulnerable financial 
situation and he would  have considered such a policy  poor value for money. He wouldnt 
have bought the policy and so Im therefore upholding his complaint.
what Nationwide should  do to put matters right 
Nationwide should  put Mr S in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out MPPI. It 
should:
Pay Mr S the amount he paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets the whole 
amount back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mr S made  a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Nationwide can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ive upheld this complaint  and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay compensation as 
Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0855797