complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2007, on the phone.  Mrs S says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent 
before adding the policy to her card.  PPI was added during a telephone  call to Capital One 
made by Mrs S to activate her new credit card. On the postal application form shed 
completed to apply for the card, she ticked the box to say she was interested in 
purchasing PPI. I cant see that Capital One provided her with any help to complete this 
postal application  form.
Mrs S said she was pressurised  into taking  PPI. I cant know  what was discussed during the 
phone call she had with Capital One. A recording of the call is no longer available, but thats 
not surprising  as banks often only keep  records for six years and this policy was sold much 
longer ago than that. Given what Mrs Ss said about what  she recalls,  I dont  have enough 
to fairly conclude that she was pressured into taking the PPI. Ive looked at the telephone 
call scripts  Capital One was using around  the time of the sale of this policy.  These make it 
clear that PPI is an optional extra and the customers asked whether they want  to purchase 
it. So I think  Capital One probably  made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out  although  I can understand  why she may not remember it 
this way now given  how much time has passed
I dont  think  that Capital One recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for her. But it did have  to make  sure Mrs S got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her and she wanted  to buy it.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of 
making her repayments, which included sick pay and some savings. The PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Mrs Ss sick pay and for longer. It wouldve allowed her to keep hold
of her savings, knowing  that her credit card repayments could be met. So, I cant see that 
these other  resources made the policy clearly inappropriate for Mrs S.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so I think  it would have 
been useful for her, if something  went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think having  better  information about the PPI would have put her off taking  out the 
cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN09833172But Capital One has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:
 Capital One got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Capital  One didnt 
tell Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs Ss said. But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Capital One (Europe)  plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2019
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0983317