K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund three payments totalling £4,600 made 
from his account, which  he says he didnt authorise.
background
I attach my provisional decision, which forms part of my final decision. In my provisional  
findings, I said I intended to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B contacted us to say he is willing 
to accept my provisional findings in settlement of his complaint. Metro Bank has also been in 
touch to say it also accepts the conclusions set out in my provisional  decision.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my previous findings,  I see no reason to change my conclusions 
as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained,  I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Metro  Bank  PLC.  
putting things  right
In putting things right for Mr B, I direct  Metro Bank PLC to:
-refund  the disputed  transactions  to Mr Bs current account  totalling £4,600;
-refund  any fees or charges that Mr B may have  incurred on his current account  that 
directly resulted from the withdrawal of the disputed payments;
-pay interest on that amount at the account interest rate, from the date of the 
withdrawals to the date of settlement.  If Metro Bank  deducts  tax from the interest  
element of this award, it should provide Mr B with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate; and
-pay Mr B the sum of £750 in respect of the distress and inconvenience  caused by 
Metro Banks handling  of the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03930132copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank  PLC wont refund three  payments totalling £4,600 made from his account, which  
he says he didnt authorise.
background
In September 2017  Mr B was a victim of a scam known as smishing (this is where a fraudster sends  an SMS 
text message to a customer  and it appears to come from their bank). Its not in dispute that what  happened was 
an act of fraud. So I have used  the term fraudster throughout to refer to the third party involved.
At the time, Mr B held a current  account with Metro Bank.  He says that, on the morning of 28 September 2017, 
he was leaving  his house on the way to a business meeting  when he received a text message, which came up on 
his phone as being from Metro  Bank. He doesnt typically  give out his mobile number, and thought it unlikely 
someone other than Metro Bank would know both his mobile number and that he banked with Metro Bank.
Mr B therefore  assumed that the message had in fact been  sent by Metro  Bank. The message asked whether 
Mr B recognised a recent transaction for £699.  It said if he did he should reply  Y, and if not he should  call a 
number. He says he didnt recognise the transaction  so he called the number without delay.
When he rang the number shown on the text, Mr B says the call mirrored a normal call to Metro  Bank. Mr B says 
he was given the same  automated options  as when he normally called  Metro Bank. He says the hold music  
used was the same as Metro  Banks, and that what he was told exactly matched the call scripts he was used  to 
hearing when he spoke to Metro Bank. He says he was convinced he was speaking to a staff member at Metro 
Bank to resolve the problem with the transaction.
This was the reason he passed on his details  to the female he was speaking with, who unfortunately turned out to 
be a fraudster.  Mr B says he was asked three or four questions.  He recalls  this included his security  number, two 
of the characters from his passcode and his mothers maiden name. Mr B says that the questions  were  the sort of 
questions he was used to answering when he called most  banks, including Metro Bank. So, again, he says he did 
not suspect there was anything amiss.
Mr B says the person he was speaking to went on to identify  three or four transactions hed made over the past 
week. He recognised these and confirmed they were genuine. However,  she then mentioned a payment for £699 
which he didnt  recognise. Mr B says she confirmed this was a fraudulent transaction and that she would stop it.
He recalls asking how the transaction could have  happened. He says he was told there were sometimes security 
breaches, and was instructed  to delete his mobile  banking app and not reinstall it for 24 hours. He accepted this 
as a genuine request from his bank,  and so he followed it. He then proceeded to his meeting.
It seems that whilst talking to Mr B, the fraudster  accessed Mr Bs online banking facility and through that his 
account. Metro Bank says that in order to access Mr Bs account the fraudster wouldve  needed  his 12 digit 
customer number, 3 digits from his security number,  and 3 characters from his password.  When  Mr B initially  
reported the fraud  he recalled being asked for characters  from his password and his security  number.
Whilst in Mr Bs online account,  the fraudster  set up the account  details for a new payee. The bank says this 
generated a One Time Passcode (OTP)  message to Mr Bs mobile phone. Metro Bank  says this message read:
Your Metro Bank one-time passcode to setup a new payee is XXXXXXXX.  If you did not setup a new payee  then 
please call us on XXXXXXXX.
Metro Bank  has provided  records showing this was sent to Mr Bs usual mobile  phone  number.  However, Mr B 
says he doesnt recall  receiving that message.
Shortly afterwards, three payments totalling £4,600  were transferred out of Mr Bs account to the newly  created 
payee.
It was only when Mr B says he attempted to withdraw  cash at an ATM  some hours later, that he realised his 
account balance had been  taken and that he had been scammed. He says he called  Metro Bank  straightaway  to 
report what had happened.
Ref: DRN03930133Below is a list of these events:
Between 10:30-11:00
Mr B received a text message that looked as though  had come from Metro Bank.
11:15-11:56 Mr B called the number given in the text message and gave over security  information 
during the call
11:56 The fraudster  made a failed attempt to login to Mr Bs online banking
11:58 The fraudster  successfully logged on to Mr Bs online banking
12:03 Metro Bank  sends Mr B an OTP by text message
12:05 New payee created
12:05 Payment of £100 sent to the new payee (the payee  created at 12:05)
12:07 Payment of £1000 sent to same new payee
13:07 Payment of £3000 sent to same new payee
15:00 Mr B logs in and views the account
15:02 Mr B calls Metro Bank to say he believes hes been scammed  and that someone  has 
cleared his bank account
Mr B reported  the scam at 15:02 on 28 September 2017. This was just under  two hours after the last of the 
transfers had been  sent. Metro  Bank  contacted the recipient bank at 15:47 that day.
The recipient bank responded  at 17:11, confirming the transferred money had all been withdrawn  or transferred 
out, and that no money remained in the receiving account.
my provisional  findings
The rules of our service  mean that I have  to determine  this complaint  by reference  to what  I consider  to be fair 
and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case. When considering whats  fair and reasonable I am required 
to take into account; relevant law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; 
and where appropriate  what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive summarised below what I consider to be the relevant regulations and account  terms, and Ive taken them into 
account when  deciding  this complaint.
relevant considerations
Metro Bank,  as an FCA regulated firm, provided a current deposit  account. As such the FCAs overarching 
Principles for Businesses apply including  the requirement  to pay due regard to a customers interests  and treat 
them fairly  (Principle 6). 
The transfers from Mr Bs account were made in September 2017. So of particular  relevance to my decision 
about what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are the Payment Services  Regulations 
2009 (PSR  2009). I think these sections of PSR 2009 are of particular relevance here:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment  transaction  is to be regarded as having  been authorised by the payer for the purposes  of this 
Part only if the payer has given its consent to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment  service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment  service  user to whom a payment  instrument  has been issued must 
(a)use the payment instrument in accordance  with the Terms and Conditions governing its issue and 
use; and
(b)notify the payment service  provider in the agreed manner  and without  undue  delay  on becoming 
aware of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment service user must on receiving a payment  instrument take all reasonable steps  to keep  its 
personalised security features safe.
Ref: DRN03930134Evidence on authentication and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction;  or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment  service  provider to prove that the payment transaction  was authenticated, accurately 
recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts  and not affected by a technical breakdown  or some 
other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which a payment  service  provider  is able 
to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having  authorised  an executed payment  transaction,  the use of a 
payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is not in itself necessarily sufficient to prove either 
that
(a) the payment transaction was authorised  by the payer;  or
(b) the payer  acted fraudulently or failed  with intent or gross negligence  to comply  with regulation  57.
Payment service providers liability for unauthorised  payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations 59 [Notification of unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment  transactions]  and 60, 
where an executed  payment  transaction was not authorised in accordance with regulation 55, the payment  
service provider must immediately 
(a) refund  the amount  of the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer; and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account to the state it would  have been in had the 
unauthorised payment  transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment transactions
62.(1) Subject to paragraphs  (2) , the payer is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any losses incurred  in 
respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising 
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed  to keep  the personalised security  features of the payment instrument safe, from 
the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment  transaction  where the 
payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence failed  to comply  with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 says that the payer  must give consent, and it must be given  in the form, and in accordance with 
the procedure,  agreed between the payer and its payment service provider . The payment services directive itself 
(which PSR 2009  implements) says In the absence of such consent, a payment  transaction  shall be considered 
to be unauthorised. But neither PSR 2009 nor the FCAs 2013 guidance on PSR 2009 provide a definition of 
consent. 
I therefore think  its fair, when considering whether consent was given, to apply the common definition of consent, 
which is to give permission for something to happen.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be assessed on a case-by-
case basis taking into account  all the circumstances.  The term is not defined in PSR 2009,  nor in the first 
Payment Services  Directive.  However, recital 72 of the second Payment Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible  negligence or gross  negligence  on the part of the payment  service  user, account 
should be taken  of all of the circumstances. The evidence and degree of alleged negligence should  generally  be 
evaluated according to national law. However, while the concept of negligence implies a breach of a duty of care,  
gross negligence should  mean more than mere negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example,  keeping  the credentials  used  to authorise a payment  transaction  beside the payment 
instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable  by third parties
Ref: DRN03930135Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret  gross  negligence to be a higher standard than the standard  of negligence  under  common law. 
The customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
Although neither  of these is directly relevant  to this complaint,  they are of value as a relevant consideration in the 
absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they inform the meaning of a concept that 
has been  in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial  contract  context, Mance J in Red Sea Tankers Ltd v 
Papachristidis (The Ardent) [1997] 2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:  
If the matter is viewed according to purely English  principles of construction,  Gross negligence is clearly 
intended to represent something more fundamental than failure to exercise proper skill and/or  care constituting 
negligence as a matter  of ordinary language  and general impression,  the concept of gross negligence seems 
to me capable  of embracing  not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of the risks involved, but also 
serious disregard  of or indifference to an obvious risk.
Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. But as I have described above, gross 
negligence suggests a lack of care that goes  significantly  beyond ordinary negligence. So I have to consider 
whether what Mr B did fell so far below the standard expected  of a reasonable person that it would  be fair to say 
he failed with gross negligence  to keep his personalised security details safe or to comply with the Terms  and 
Conditions of the account.
the Terms & Conditions of Mr Bs account 
Metro Bank  has provided  a copy of the terms and conditions that applied  at the time the transfers  were made 
from Mr Bs current  account.  In its submissions,  Metro Bank  has highlighted certain sections. I also consider 
section eight to be relevant  to my consideration of this case. It outlines:
8.1Transactions you didnt authorise
We will be responsible for any payment transaction that you did not authorise, unless:
you have acted fraudulently;
you allowed another person to use your card, PIN or other security details who is not authorised by you;
you suspect your chequebook or cards have been stolen or lost (or intercepted before being delivered to you) 
and you deliberately or with gross negligence have not told us;
you have revealed to someone else, or written down, your PIN number or other security details used for 
online, mobile and telephone banking;
you didnt tell us that your mobile phone which is registered for SMS updates or mobile banking has been 
stolen;
you allow someone else to use your mobile phone or personal computer;
you change your mobile phone number, email address or other details which we use to contact you and do not 
update us;
(in the case of a cheque) you failed to take reasonable care when writing the cheque; or
you have entered the incorrect details when making a payment.
We will issue you with an immediate refund if you tell us that you did not authorise a payment transaction, unless 
the facts suggest that we may not be responsible for it and that it is appropriate for us to investigate the transaction 
further. We will investigate the transaction and decide as quickly as possible whether we are or may be 
responsible. You should tell us as soon as you notice any suspicious or unauthorised activity on your account in 
line with the section on Telling us about problems early...
If we issue you with a refund, we will pay you the amount of the unauthorised transaction and any resulting interest 
and charges applied to your account. If we have investigated the transaction, we will make sure that you do not suffer 
any loss because of the delay in reaching our decision.
If we then prove that we are not in fact responsible for an unauthorised transaction, we will explain to you how we 
have reached this decision and we may take from your account the amount of any refund or other payment we 
have made to you.
Ref: DRN03930136key questions
In my view, the above relevant  considerations mean that if the transactions  were unauthorised, it would be fair 
and reasonable  for Metro Bank to refund the amount stolen from Mr B, unless Mr B with intent or gross 
negligence, failed to comply  with the Terms and Conditions of the account and the obligations  set out in 
Regulation 57.
Metro Bank  says in its final response to Mr Bs complaint  that:
the monies were paid away in reliance of the correct security information being provided,  and in such 
situations we are unable to provide a refund due to the circumstances, as it is reasonable  for us to 
assume that the disputed transaction was either authorised by you or that you have  not taken adequate 
care of your security details, contrary to our terms and conditions (5.2).  As such, we are not obliged to 
provide a refund on this occasion.
I therefore think  there are two key questions  relevant to my consideration about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances:
1.Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr B? and;
2.If they werent, can Metro Bank demonstrate  that Mr B failed with intent or gross  negligence either to 
comply with the Terms  and Conditions  of his account or to keep  his personalised security details  safe?
Though there is naturally some  overlap of events when answering these two questions, I will approach them in 
this order.
were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr B?
On the balance of evidence,  Im not persuaded that Mr B authorised these transactions from his current account. 
Ill explain why.
I dont know exactly what  was discussed between  Mr B and the fraudster, but it appears as though he gave the 
fraudster enough  information  for them to gain access to his online banking. And this was all in the context of 
protecting his account  and trying to stop a payment rather than authorise one.
Mr B doesnt  accept he received an OTP.  Metro  Bank says it sent the OTP in a text message  to Mr Bs mobile 
number. Its provided records showing the time that text was sent, the wording of the message and the number  to 
which it was sent, amongst  other things. But I havent seen anything confirming  the specific device to which  the 
OTP was sent.
Mr B suggests  that the mobile number linked to his account may have been  changed  by the fraudster. He says 
perhaps this caused the text message to be diverted to the fraudster. Having  reviewed the records  provided by 
Metro Bank,  I dont see any evidence  to suggest  that is what happened here. The number to which  the disputed 
message was sent is the same as that which had been used on previous occasions, seemingly without issue.
Mr B doesnt  report having had any issues  with his mobile phone at the time. And the fraud relied on him 
receiving the fraudsters initial text message. So I think its unlikely the fraudster directly  intercepted the message 
sent to his mobile phone number. But I will consider any further  evidence on this point  from Mr B or Metro Bank in 
response to this decision.
There is limited information for me to rely on here, and so I need to decide what  I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence.  
Ive listened to the calls between Mr B and Metro  Bank,  in particular  the first call that Mr B makes to report  the 
fraud. This seems to me the most reliable recollection of events by Mr B; its just happened shortly beforehand. 
So I think  its reasonable to give weight to what he said during that call about  how the scam  unfolded.   
On balance, I think it most likely  that the OTP was received by Mr Bs phone. Mr B describes the situation 
surrounding the call to the fraudster, and the level of trust built through what seems to have been the 
considerable sophistication of the scam. I think in those circumstances it would  have been  understandable that 
Mr B might  have, believing  he was speaking with his bank, given over the number in a message hed been sent. 
That message after all would likely have been received in the same way hed received the message that had 
prompted his call in the first place.
Ref: DRN03930137Regardless, its clear the fraudster used the OTP code to set up at least one new payee on the account. The 
fraudster then transferred money  out of Mr Bs bank account to that new payee, a payee unknown to him.
Given the information Metro Bank has provided showing  a log-in  from a different IP address and knowing that 
Mr B provided  information that enabled a fraudster to log into his account, I think it most likely that it was the 
fraudster rather than Mr B who input  the OTP into Mr Bs online banking.
Later on that day Mr B found he was unable to withdraw  any cash from an ATM. He says he then checked his 
balance and noticed £4,600  was missing. At that point, he called Metro Bank  to report  the scam.
Ive l listened to that call and thought  about what had happened prior to it being made. Based  on whats been 
made available  to me, I dont  think Mr B had been aware that a payment was being  made from his account when  
he was speaking to the fraudster  or immediately afterwards. He says he fully believed he was acting to prevent  a 
fraudulent transaction, not to make a transaction.  What Mr B says on the call is persuasive  evidence on this 
point. And so, on balance, I dont think Mr B consented to or authorised a transaction to be made from his 
account.
So, my starting point here is that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mr B to be held liable for the transactions 
 which  I think  its more likely than not were unauthorised   unless he has failed with intent or gross negligence 
to comply with the terms and conditions of the relationship with Metro Bank and the obligations set out in the PSR 
2009.
did Mr B fail with gross  negligence  either to comply with the Terms and Conditions  of the account,  or to 
keep his personalised  security details safe?
It is not enough to say Mr B was grossly  negligent simply  because he shared  security details  for the account. 
Careful consideration needs  to be given  to the circumstances under which  those details  were shared.
Mr B was tricked  by a fraudster  into giving over some account security information. I think Mr B was also then 
tricked into handing over an OTP code, which  allowed  a new payee to be created.  However, on the balance of 
evidence, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that, in falling for these tricks  and in failing  to keep 
his security details safe, Mr B was grossly negligent. Ill explain  why.
As I set out earlier, negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise  reasonable care.  I think it is fair to say 
that gross  negligence involves a degree of negligence that is higher than ordinary negligence.  That is consistent  
with what has been  held by the courts in a commercial contract  context (as mentioned, Mance J held that 
Gross negligence is clearly  intended to represent something more fundamental than failure to exercise proper  
skill and/or  care constituting negligence), and the FCAs guidance, which says that gross negligence is a higher 
standard than the standard  of negligence under common law. 
Ive thought  carefully  about  the actions Mr B took in the circumstances here,  and whether  what  he did, fell so far 
below the standard of a reasonable person that it would be fair to say he failed with gross negligence  to keep  his 
personalised security details safe or to comply with the Terms and Conditions of the account.
Gross negligence isnt an abstract concept.  Its important to take into account all the circumstances when 
considering whether an individuals actions amount to gross negligence. The scam here involved smishing  and 
social engineering , where the fraudsters  use a range of sophisticated  techniques to trick, deceive and 
manipulate their victims  into giving out confidential information. Here  Mr B was made to believe he was talking to 
his own bank and needing  to act quickly to protect his bank  account, which was at that very time being used  for 
fraudulent spending. Therefore, Ive thought about  Mr Bs actions in that context, and considered his overall 
actions. 
Mr B has described the text message he received  in detail, and hes explained why at the time he thought it was 
genuine. I dont  doubt  his account of this or of the subsequent call where he was told of genuine transactions and 
a fake fraudulent transaction. This is a sophisticated method used by fraudsters to trick their victims  into a sense 
of security. It creates the sense that their victim is in a safe environment, that they are dealing with their genuine  
bank, and that they need  to act quickly to protect  their account. Mr Bs detailed recollections of the ways in which  
the call exactly mirrored any other call he would expect to have  had with Metro Bank supports this view. So I can 
understand why it wouldnt,  reasonably, have raised any obvious suspicion from Mr B  or any reasonable person  
in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN03930138I do not think,  at the time, Mr B thought anything  other  than that the actions he was taking were to prevent a 
fraudulent payment  leaving  his account and to secure his bank account. Rather than appreciating  the risk he was 
taking by following the fraudsters instructions  but disregarding or being indifferent to it, he was under the 
opposite impression that if he didnt  follow  those instructions he was at risk of losing money.
Mr B doesnt  recall receiving the OTP code,  although I think it likely  the code was sent to his phone. In this case, 
it seems likely that the fraudsters convinced him that the code was needed in the process of protecting his money 
and the various stages the bank needed to go through to do that. And I wouldnt expect Mr B to know what Metro 
Banks processes are for stopping a payment or to necessarily  question what he was being asked to do  
because he genuinely believed he was working  with his bank to protect his account. He reasonably  felt worried 
about the security of his bank account, and felt a corresponding pressure to act. In similar  circumstances, I think  
a reasonable person wouldve acted in the same  way that Mr B did here. Indeed  this was the conclusion voiced  
by the Metro Bank call handler  when Mr B called in to report the fraud, the call handler  stating: Youve  done what 
any person would have done,  so its not your fault at all in this situation.
So on balance I dont think anything happened to break the fraudsters spell over Mr B. And Im not persuaded 
that his actions fell so far below what  a reasonable person  would  do in the circumstances to amount to gross 
negligence.
warnings
Metro Bank  refers to a number of things  it has done to raise the general awareness  of fraud risk amongst its 
customers, including specific  warnings, which  it says Mr B would have had to acknowledge to log on to his online 
banking.
But even if Mr B engaged with these things it doesnt follow that he was grossly negligent for falling victim to fraud  
thereafter. Nor would it necessarily be fair to say Mr B was grossly negligent  if he did not engage with these  
things and then fell victim to fraud. I am required to consider  whether what  Mr B did fell so far below  the standard 
of a reasonable person  that it would be fair to say he failed  with gross negligence to keep his personalised 
security details  safe or to comply with the terms and conditions of his account.
To be clear, Im not saying that fraud  warnings  by a bank  arent ever relevant at all, or couldnt, potentially, make 
a difference in a specific example of fraud. Nor am I condoning an individual who chooses consciously to 
disregard such  warnings. But, by way of balance to this point, I also think its right to appreciate and understand  
that, in a busy  world, such messages are not always read by consumers and even  if read may not, reasonably,  
be in a consumers  mind when faced with a sophisticated real time confidence  trick of this nature sometime later. 
It is encouraging to hear that banks are increasingly looking  at ways to provide more  real time  and impactful 
fraud specific  warnings with this in mind.
On the facts  of this particular  case, I dont believe Mr Bs failure to read or heed the warnings in question is 
enough, on the balance of evidence, for Metro  Bank  to demonstrate gross negligence occurred  here.
other considerations
Mr B has detailed the impact  this event had on him. Hes explained the toll this took on his health, and business 
affairs. While the bulk of this can be attributed  to the actions of the fraudsters involved, I have  thought about the 
impact Metro Banks handling of the issue had on Mr B. 
Mr B has explained the specific  impact Metro Banks response to the scam  had on him, and how his individual 
circumstances meant this affected him more strongly.  I am persuaded that the initial reassurances Metro  Bank 
gave him, followed by the banks eventual  response  that he was to blame, led him to suffer significant distress 
and inconvenience.
Taking account of everything that happened I consider that Metro Bank should pay Mr B compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience  it caused him here. 
putting things  right
For the reasons given, I do not think it was fair and reasonable for Metro Bank  not to refund the amount stolen 
from Mr Bs current  account.
I think Metro Bank should:
Ref: DRN03930139-refund  Mr Bs current account with £4,600;
-refund  any fees or charges that Mr B may have incurred on his current  account that directly resulted 
from the withdrawal of the disputed  payments;
-pay interest on that amount  at the account interest rate, from the date of the withdrawals to the date of 
settlement. If Metro  Bank deducts tax from the interest  element of this award, it should  provide  Mr B with 
the appropriate tax deduction  certificate; and
-pay Mr B the sum of £750  in respect  of the distress and inconvenience caused by Metro Banks 
handling of the matter.
In considering these provisional conclusions about what would be fair compensation, Ive assumed  that the 
money taken from Mr Bs current account wouldve  remained  in that account if this fraud  hadnt happened. But 
I would invite the parties to make further representations about this in response if they have  a different view. 
Ive noted that regulation 62 of the PSRs 2009 suggests that Mr B can be liable up to a maximum of £50 for 
losses incurred as a result of unauthorised payment transactions. But the terms and conditions that applied to Mr 
Bs account dont make  any provision for Metro Bank to withhold  up to £50. As Metro Bank hasnt reserved this 
right and its terms indicate that it will pay the amount of an unauthorised transaction if it does decide to refund a 
transaction, Im currently of the opinion that it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund  the full amount  of these 
unauthorised transfers.
provisional decision
For the reasons given, my provisional decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  My current view is that Metro  Bank 
PLC should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Ill wait two weeks for both parties to provide any further comments or evidence before reviewing the matter 
again. 
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0393013