K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy because The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited  
(Royal London) turned down her claim for critical illness benefit. She wants the claim to be 
paid.
background
In January 2016 Mrs H was admitted to A&E with blurred vision and light headedness. She 
was 22 weeks pregnant at the time.
An ECG was done  which  showed a short PR interval. Mrs H attended a follow up 
appointment with a consultant physician on 10 March 2016. Whilst the physician thought  
Mrs Hs symptoms were  in keeping with her pregnancy, she was referred to a consultant 
cardiologist for review. The cardiologist said there didnt appear to be any abnormalities. But
in view of her symptoms, the cardiologist arranged  to see Mrs H in clinic to decide if anything  
further was needed. An appointment was arranged  for 10 June 2016. 
On 2 June  2016 Mrs H and her husband  applied to Royal London for a critical illness policy.  
Mrs H answered  no to the following questions:
Have you ever had, or do you currently  have,  any of the following:
Heart disease of disorder, circulatory disease or diabetes? Including: angina  or heart  
attack, Disease of, or surgery to, your heart or arteries, Cardiomyopathy .
Apart from anything youve already  told us about, during  the last 5 years have you 
had, or do you currently have,  any of the following:
Any condition affecting  your ears or hearing, or your eyes or vision that is not wholly 
corrected by spectacles or lenses: including: .. Blurred or double vision ..
Apart from anything you have already  told us about, in the last 3 years,  have  you: 
Been prescribed medication or treatment  regularly for a period of four consecutive 
weeks or more, or have you been under review from your doctor or a medical 
professional?  you dont need to tell us about contraception, fertility, dental treatment or 
reviews purely in relation to pregnancy.
Been referred to a specialist or had, or been advised to have, any investigations?  
Including: . ECG, echocardiogram or other heart  investigations  You dont need to tell as 
about investigations which were purely  for pregnancy.
In addition, apart from anything you have already told us about: Are you awaiting 
referral, investigations, results  or treatment for anything else or do you have any other 
symptoms for which you have not yet sought medical advice?
For example: . Dizziness, blackouts/fainting.
On 10 June 2016 Mrs H saw the cardiologist who did an ECG. He concluded that Mrs Hs 
symptoms were not suggestive of any serious underlying heart problem.  He added her 
symptoms are likely  to have been  exacerbated by her pregnancy, and will hopefully  settle  in 
time. A review was arranged for six months time.
Ref: DRN03709772In December 2016 an ECG showed  a mildly dilated ventricle with mild impairment of 
systolic function. 
In February 2017  Mrs H was diagnosed  with postpartum cardiomyopathy. She claimed 
against her policy. Royal  London turned down the claim because  it said Mrs H had given  
incorrect answers when  she applied for the policy. It cancelled  the policy and gave Mrs H 
back all the premiums shed paid. Her husbands  policy remained in place.
Mrs H complained to Royal London.  She said the application form she completed was clear 
that pregnancy related conditions didnt need  to be included. She said she completed  the 
application form to the best of her ability
Royal London understood how some  questions on the application form said it didnt need to 
know about investigations purely  related to pregnancy. But because the medical evidence 
showed further investigations into Mrs Hs symptoms were  needed,  Royal London said
Mrs H shouldve disclosed this in the application.  It maintained it was right to refuse the claim 
and cancel Mrs Hs policy.
Mrs H was unhappy with Royal  Londons  response  and asked  us to consider her complaint.  
She told us Royal  Londons refusal  to pay the claim had caused her a great deal of distress.
Our investigator said because Mrs H hadnt been diagnosed with cardiomyopathy  when she 
applied for the policy, she was right to answer no to Royal  Londons question as to whether 
she ever had or currently had a heart  condition.
But having looked at the medical evidence our investigator said Mrs H shouldve disclosed 
her blurred vision and ongoing heart investigations. He understood why Mrs H felt she didnt 
need to because of the link to her pregnancy. But our investigator didnt feel the evidence 
showed the investigations being carried out were  purely pregnancy related.
Our investigator found that if Royal London had known Mrs H had an episode of blurred 
vision and was under  review by a cardiologist it wouldnt have accepted Mrs Hs application 
for a critical illness policy. Our investigator didnt  think Mrs H had deliberately  or recklessly  
misled Royal  London.  So he was satisfied that Royal London was right to treat this case  as if 
it had known all the information about Mrs Hs medical condition when she applied.  Our 
investigator thought  Royal  Londons decision to cancel the policy and refund  Mrs Hs 
premiums was fair.
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators  assessment. She sent a letter from her consultant 
cardiologist. The consultant said Mrs H was right to answer no to the question  about 
blurred vision as this was not related to any associated condition  and was not linked to her 
cardiomyopathy. The consultant also said Mrs Hs cardiomyopathy was caused by 
pregnancy, not exacerbated  by pregnancy.
We asked Royal London for its comments on the consultants letter.  It said Mrs H suffered 
symptoms of dizziness, light headedness  and blurred vision and had been  referred  to a 
cardiologist to investigate  her symptoms. Royal London said these werent  standard 
pregnancy investigations and were  done to find the cause of Mrs Hs specific symptoms.  As 
these investigations  were ongoing at the time of the application, Royal  London said Mrs H 
shouldve disclosed them.
Ref: DRN03709773Our investigator thought  the further response  from Royal London was fair. He still thought 
Mrs H hadnt answered the questions correctly  given what  she reasonably  knew at the time 
of her application.
Mrs H didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me for a review.  She said our 
investigator had disregarded medical  evidence. She said the questions Royal London asked 
were ambiguous and unclear. Mrs H said she hadnt declared her episode  of blurred vision  
as she didnt have  a condition affecting  her eyes. Mrs H also said our investigator was wrong 
to say her consultant didnt think her symptoms were caused by pregnancy.  She said this 
was an assumption and not based on evidence.
Mrs H said her consultant confirmed her health  issues were pregnancy related and that she 
answered the questions on the application  correctly. Mrs H said her visit to accident  and 
emergency in January  2016, and subsequent ECG, were  because of the impact of her 
pregnancy on her heart. She said her consultant  confirmed the ECG was purely pregnancy  
related.
Having considered all the information  presented  by both sides, I issued a provisional  
decision on 4 April 2019 explaining why I wasnt upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
my provisional findings  
I explained that, while Mrs H was under review by a doctor and had been referred to a 
specialist at the time she completed her application, I didnt think  it was unreasonable  for her 
to think these investigations were, at that time, purely related to her pregnancy.
But Royal London  had told me that, even  if Mrs H thought the reviews she was having were 
purely related  to her pregnancy, there were other questions in the application that she 
shouldve answered  yes to. The most significant being:
In addition, apart from anything you have already told us about: Are you awaiting 
referral, investigations, results  or treatment for anything else or do you have any other 
symptoms for which you have not yet sought medical advice?
For example: . Dizziness, blackouts/fainting.
Royal London said this question didnt suggest an applicant could ignore any pregnancy 
related reviews. And because Mrs H was waiting to see the consultant  cardiologist  in clinic at 
the time of her application, she shouldve answered  yes  to this question. Royal  London 
also told me that if Mrs H had answered  yes to this question,  then it wouldve become 
aware of the outstanding cardiology investigations. It wouldve awaited the outcome of those 
investigations before deciding  on the application.
I asked Mrs H why she answered no to this question. She said she wasnt awaiting a 
referral as shed already  been referred.  And that this was only a discussion to reiterate  there 
would be no further  action. Mrs H also told me all her investigations were completed before 
the application. She said she wasnt waiting  for any results and no treatment was needed.
I considered carefully  what both Mrs H and Royal London  said.  I accepted Mrs H wasnt  
awaiting a referral. The letters in March 2016 were  clear  that Mrs H had been  referred  to a 
cardiologist. 
Ref: DRN03709774But what I couldnt accept  was that at the time of the application on 2 June 2016 all the 
investigations into Mrs Hs symptoms had been  completed. In March 2016,  before the 
application to Royal London,  Mrs Hs cardiologist reviewed her case  - including  the ECG 
results - and drew  some  conclusions as to the likely cause of her symptoms. So I could see 
why Mrs H mightve considered the investigations to be complete at that stage. 
I said that if shed been discharged at that point, then I would agree with Mrs H that the 
investigations were  complete  and no treatment was needed. But she wasnt discharged and 
in view of her symptoms, the cardiologist wanted to see Mrs H again  in the cardiology clinic. 
This didnt  happen  until 10 June 2016. So at the time of the application  on 2 June 2016, I 
thought it reasonable to say that Mrs H was still awaiting investigations.  And so shouldve  
answered yes to this question.
Because of this I found that Royal London  was fair to say that a misrepresentation took 
place when applying  for cover. So I didnt think it was unfair for Royal  London to decline 
Mrs Hs claim. 
From looking  at Royal Londons underwriting criteria, I was also satisfied that had it known of 
Mrs Hs ongoing investigations and eventual diagnosis; it wouldnt have offered her cover. 
Therefore Royal  London  was entitled to cancel Mrs Hs policy  and return her premiums. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Mrs H didnt agree with my provisional decision.  She maintained that shed answered all the 
questions on the application form based  on what she knew at the time. She said when she 
completed the application, all the investigations  into her symptoms  were complete and she 
wasnt awaiting a referral.  
Mrs H acknowledged that she had an appointment to see her cardiologist on 10 June 2016. 
But she said he was satisfied that the tests  already  carried out had shown no need for 
further investigation or treatment. Mrs H told me that her cardiologist carried out an ECG 
during the 10 June  2016 appointment, but this showed no abnormality.  
Mrs H provided  me with a letter from her cardiologist. He agreed with my provisional 
decision that Mrs H wasnt awaiting referral at the time of the application  as an appointment 
had been scheduled for 10 June 2016. The cardiologist said investigations had been 
completed prior to this appointment. He said No further investigations were planned, and it 
was anticipated  that no further review would be necessary. The cardiologist  maintained  that 
Mrs H had answered the questions on the application based on what  she knew  at the time.       
Royal London accepted my provisional decision.  
I asked Royal London for its comments on Mrs H and her cardiologists response  to my 
provisional decision. It maintained that Mrs H wouldve known  at the time of her application 
about her upcoming  appointment on 10 June  2016, and shouldve disclosed this. And 
because this appointment hadnt happened  when  the application was made, Royal  London 
said Mrs H was awaiting referral and shouldve  answered the question  as such. 
Royal London said it considered the 10 June 2016 appointment as part of the ongoing 
investigations into Mrs Hs symptoms. Because the cardiologist did an ECG, Royal  London 
argued that this demonstrated the investigations  were ongoing.  
Ref: DRN03709775my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes both Mrs Hs and 
Royal Londons responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA),  which mirrors  this services  longstanding approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue  or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
was there  a misrepresentation?
I dont agree with Royal Londons view that at the time of the application Mrs H was awaiting 
referral. She was referred  to a cardiologist in March 2016. He first reviewed her case the 
same month and arranged to see her again on 10 June 2016. So whilst at the time of the 
application on 2 June 2016 Mrs H was awaiting an appointment with the cardiologist,  I dont 
think its fair to say she was awaiting a referral.  
So for me this case hinges on whether or not Mrs H was awaiting investigations  at the time 
of the 2 June 2016 application  - and whether it was reasonable for her to know that. As I said 
in my provisional decision,  if the cardiologist  had discharged Mrs H after reviewing her case  
in March 2016, then the investigations  wouldve been complete. But because  she knew  she 
was being reviewed on 10 June 2016,  I think Mrs H shouldve told Royal  London that she 
was awaiting investigations. Let me explain why.  
I can understand Mrs Hs point that the cardiologists  findings in March  2016 could be 
interpreted as all investigations  being complete. But by arranging to see Mrs H again on 
10 June 2016  to decide if anything further  is needed, I agree with Royal London that the 
investigations were  ongoing. 
Mrs H may well have  thought that the appointment on the 10 June 2016 wouldnt have 
resulted in any further investigations. But this seems  to be based on her view that no 
treatment or tests were  outstanding. What did or didnt happen during that appointment is 
not of significance now. Im looking at what  Mrs H shouldve known at the time of the 
application. My view is that any ongoing involvement by the cardiologist, whether diagnostic  
tests were carried out or not, is still part of the overall investigation into Mrs Hs symptoms.  
Therefore on balance, I agree with Royal Londons position that Mrs H shouldve  disclosed 
on her application  that she was awaiting investigations from her cardiologist.   
what would  Royal London have done differently?
Royal London has treated Mrs Hs misrepresentation  as careless , which  I think  is
correct in the circumstances as theres  nothing to suggest the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless.
Ref: DRN03709776Under CIDRA, when  its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the 
insurer can take whatever  action it wouldve  taken  if the correct  answer  had been  given at 
the point of application. Royal London has shown us that had it known about Mrs Hs 
cardiology investigations and eventual diagnosis; it wouldnt have offered her cover.
This has been a very difficult case to decide, in part because  of Mrs Hs current  
circumstances, but also because the arguments  and evidence  provided by both sides  is 
finely balanced. I know my final decision will be very disappointing for Mrs H. But having  
carefully considered  everything, I dont think it was unfair for Royal London  to decline her 
claim because  of a misrepresentation when Mrs H applied for her critical illness  policy. I also 
think Royal London was entitled to cancel Mrs Hs policy and return  her premiums.  Mrs H 
has confirmed to me that her husbands policy with Royal London  is still in place.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
 
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0370977