K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) paid only part of his cancellation claim 
under his travel insurance and also that it dealt poorly with the claim.
 
background
Mr H has travel insurance with UKI linked to his current  account.  In October 2017 he booked  
a holiday for the following May. But in April 2018 his doctors advised him not to travel 
because of his heart  condition.  So he cancelled  the holiday  and made a claim to UKI.
UKI paid only the deposit for the holiday after deducting the excesses. It wouldnt  pay the full 
amount cost of the cancelled holiday because Mr H had first been diagnosed with the heart 
condition in January 2018. This was before  hed paid the balance  of the holiday in March  
2018. UKI said Mr H should have  called it about his heart condition in January 2018. If he 
had called UKI it said it wouldnt have covered him for that condition but it would have 
offered to pay the costs of cancelling the holiday at that point. At that time the cost was just 
the holiday deposit amount. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the reduced payment  or the way UKI had handled his claim.  UKI 
said its claim settlement was fair. But it accepted  it had given Mr H poor service  and so it 
paid him £200  compensation  for distress and inconvenience. He then came  to us.
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. She said that if Mr H had called UKI in 
January 2018  it wouldnt  have agreed  to cover  him for his heart condition, so it had properly 
paid him only the holiday  deposit.  She thought the £200 compensation was fair. Mr H said 
hed been fit to travel until April 2018, but couldnt have ignored medical advice not to travel.  
He also said UKI had agreed  to cover his medical  conditions in his most recent annual 
renewal, in January 2019. So he didnt accept  UKI wouldnt have covered his heart 
condition.
UKI said it had initially  offered cover for Mr Hs medical conditions in January 2019. But 
when it was made aware of all his medical  conditions it withdrew  cover  and refunded  the 
additional premium  he had paid. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think UKI did settle Mr Hs claim fairly, so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain my 
reasons.
The policy clearly says that after booking a holiday but before they leave anyone  insured 
under the policy  needs to call UKI if they are diagnosed with a number of stated  medical 
conditions, including  any heart condition. The policy explains  they wont  automatically be 
covered and so its important to make UKI aware.
In January 2018 while on holiday abroad Mr H was in hospital  for several days with 
pneumonia, which triggered a heart  condition called  atrial  fibrillation or AF. 
Ref: DRN09652232Mr H didnt call UKI about his heart condition before he paid the balance for his May 2018 
holiday. UKI says if he hed called when he was first diagnosed with the heart condition then 
it wouldnt have agreed to cover him for that condition. Even if hed been fit to travel at that 
point it would have  paid the cancellation costs of his May 2018  holiday. And at that time the 
cost was just the deposit for the holiday.  
Mr H has explained to us that he didnt call UKI in January 2018 because he thought  he only 
had to tell UKI about changes in his health  on renewal, and not during the policy  year. 
Ive thought about his comments.  But the difficulty I have is that UKI sets out very clearly  in 
its policy terms the circumstances in which he should call about his medical  conditions.  It 
explained that it needed to know about  any heart condition.
Also, UKI reminded Mr H about  the need  to call it immediately about changes  in medical 
conditions when he called it for the annual renewal in December 2017. Hed called UKI then 
to renew whats called an age extension under the policy, and opted not to cover his then 
medical conditions  of arthritis and raised  cholesterol.  
I think that UKI did enough  to explain to Mr H when hed need to call it about any changes  in 
his health. Also, I think that a hospital admission for pneumonia which triggered a heart 
condition was a significant change in Mr Hs health, and one that his travel insurer  would 
reasonably want  to know about.  It was a significant change  in risk for UKI. 
Where theres a significant  change in a consumers  health after a holiday is booked an 
insurer is entitled to consider  whether  it is willing to continue  to insure the consumer. Thats 
set out in UKIs policy terms. If the insurer isnt willing  to continue the cover then we think  its 
fair for the insurer  to offer to pay the cancellation costs of the holiday at that point,  so that a 
consumer doesnt  have to travel  uninsured  if they dont want to. In this case  UKI paid Mr H 
the cancellation costs for the holiday at the time Mr H was diagnosed with his heart 
condition. 
I think UKI settled the claim  fairly. It has shown us that it wouldnt have covered him if he had 
called it in January  2018, because it carried out whats called a retrospective medical 
screening. In other words, UKI asked  Mr H the medical questions it would have asked him if 
hed called it when  he was diagnosed  with his heart condition.  The medical screening 
showed that it wouldnt have covered him for his medical  conditions.  
I dont think UKI has to pay Mr H the balance  of the holiday cost. He paid the balance  of the 
holiday after his January 2018  hospital  admission and after hed been diagnosed with a 
heart condition. I appreciate his GP referred him for further investigations but he knew  hed 
had a problem  with his heart at the time he paid the balance of the holiday. His doctors told 
him he wasnt fit to travel  only in April 2018, and I accept why he followed that advice. But 
even so he still needed to call UKI when he was first diagnosed with a heart  condition  as Ive 
explained above. By not calling earlier Mr H had essentially prejudiced UKIs position.
Mr H says that in January  2019 UKI offered him cover for his medical  conditions  for a full 
year. So he doesnt accept UKI would have  refused  to cover him after his January 2018 
diagnosis. I should  say that the fact an insurer offers cover  for another policy year doesnt,  of 
itself, mean  it would have  offered cover  for the previous year, as it can change the risks it will 
agree to cover. But in any event UKI says that it made the offer to cover Mr H based on 
incomplete information about his medical conditions. When  it had more complete information 
Ref: DRN09652233it withdrew the medical cover offered in January 2019 and refunded the additional premium  
hed paid.
Mr H hasnt disputed the amount  UKI paid him for its poor service. But for the sake  of 
completeness I think this was a fair and reasonable amount  of compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  UKI caused  to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0965223