K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds  service  in connection with 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ts son, who was a named driver on Mr Ts policy, was driving  Mr T's car when he was in 
an accident that wasn't his fault.  Admiral  dealt with the claim for the damage to Mr Ts car. It 
also referred Mr T to a solicitors  firm to deal with a claim for uninsured losses  not covered by 
his motor policy. Mr T wasn't happy  with the way certain aspects of the claim were handled; 
amongst other things  he complained that:
 He had to pay his £600 excess even  though  his son wasn't  at fault for the accident.
 Admiral  had refused to let his son change the car on the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 July 2020. For ease I've copied  my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it.
As well as the complaint points addressed below, Mr T also complained  about  some other 
points in connection with the claim for uninsured losses. Ive issued a separate  decision 
explaining why those complaints are outside of our jurisdiction. So I don't intend to comment  
on those things in this provisional  decision.  Instead I will address the following points:
should Mr T have had to pay his £600 excess?
Mr T told us that he believed hed: signed up for an insurance policy that meant  that I was 
only required  to pay the excess  if I (or any of the insured  drivers  on the policy) are at fault 
In other  words because  his son wasnt at fault for that accident Mr T didn't think his excess  
was payable. But Mr T is mistaken.
Like most motor policies Im aware  of Mr Ts policy required him to pay his excess for any 
claim for damage or loss his car suffers. And any claim includes claims arising from non-
fault accidents. So Mr T was always going to be required to pay his excess  when claiming  on 
the policy even  though  his son wasn't  at fault.  So I don't think  Admiral did anything  wrong in 
telling Mr T hed have to pay his excess.
did Admiral unreasonably refuse to let his son make  an amendment  to the policy?
Theres no record on Admiral's file that it refused  to let Mr Ts son make  an amendment  to 
the policy. And Mr T hasn't provided  the specific details of the call in which he thinks  that 
happened. So in the absence of any persuasive  evidence that Admiral unreasonably refused 
to deal with Mr Ts son, Im not persuaded that it did anything wrong.
developments
Admiral didn't make any further comments. Mr T said that I failed to grasp his complaint 
and that there was a point  of principle that anyone who wasn't at fault for a motor accident 
Ref: DRN01686232shouldnt be out of pocket. He added  that he didn't think  he should have to provide evidence 
of a phone  call made in December  2018.  And when he made  his complaint Admiral could 
have contacted his son or given him a point of contact to resolve  the issue.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to change 
my provisional decision.
Mr T said that Id failed to grasp that the main thrust of his complaint was a point of principle 
that neither he nor anyone else should be out of pocket if they werent at fault for a motor  
accident. Were not the industry  regulator and it's not our role to address points of principle 
relating to the insurance industry in general.  Instead we look at individual  complaints and 
determine if a business has treated a consumer fairly and reasonably  in relation to the points 
complained about.
But in any event I've looked again  at the points Mr Ts made. And I can't see any evidence  
that hed previously referred to or implied  his complaint concerned a point of principle. And 
when he initially complained to us his complaint  wasnt that hed had to pay his excess  but 
that hed lost out on interest on that amount  until it was recovered. We explained to him that 
that wasn't something that Admiral  was responsible for and a complaint about  that was 
outside of our jurisdiction.  Mr T only complained about having to pay his excess  after our 
investigator had issued her assessment of his complaint. So I don't accept that I failed to 
grasp his main point  of complaint.
Further, as I explained  in my provisional decision,  all motor policies that Im aware of require 
the policyholder  to pay their excess in the event of a claim. And that includes non-fault  
claims. An insurer may choose  to waive that excess if it wishes to, but its under  no 
obligation to do so. And given that in taking out the policy, which  is an insurance contract, 
Mr T agreed  to pay his excess in the event of any claim,  I dont think Admiral did anything 
wrong in telling Mr T hed have to pay his excess.
Turning to Mr Ts complaint that Admiral refused to allow his son to make an amendment to 
the policy; I think Mr T has misunderstood  my provisional findings. So it might  help if Im 
clear that theres  simply no evidence, beyond Mr Ts complaint,  that Admiral  refused to allow 
his son to make an amendment to the policy. Admiral has no record  of such  a conversation 
taking place.
I note that the first time that Mr T raised this issue was in February 2019 when he said that in 
a recent  telephone call Admiral  had refused to allow his son to change a car on the policy.  
But it appears that the telephone call Mr T referred  to was between  his son and a solicitors 
firm and not with Admiral. And, when looking into the complaint, as Admiral  couldn't  find any 
evidence that it had refused to allow Mr Ts son to make an amendment  to the policy,  it 
asked Mr T if he could  provide more  details of the date and time of the call, so it could 
investigate the matter further. But Mr T didn't  provide  those details. So theres  no persuasive 
evidence that Admiral did refuse to allow Mr Ts son to make an amendment to the policy. 
And by the time that Mr T complained about the issue hed already made the policy  
amendment himself. So there was no need for Admiral to contact Mr Ts son to resolve the 
issue, as it was already  resolved. It follows that I remain satisfied that Admiral didn't do 
anything wrong.
Ref: DRN01686233my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0168623