K821x#15complaint
Miss F and Miss P have complained that esure  Insurance Limited referred  Miss F to a credit 
hire company (CHC) when she requested a courtesy car. Miss F made a claim under her car 
insurance policy. 
For ease, Ill refer to Miss F only in my decision.
background
In February 2018  Miss F was involved in an incident  with another  vehicle and she reported it 
to her insurer, esure. In June 2018  Miss F made a number of complaints which have been 
resolved  but she asked to look at her complaint  about  esures  referral  to a CHC. 
In June 2018 esure upheld this complaint. It listened  to the key call and said its agent  
shouldnt have referred Miss F to a CHC as she made it clear she wanted a courtesy car  
and would have  been satisfied with it being  a basic 3 door hatchback. 
The CHC  provided  Miss F with a hire car. But the third party disputed liability,  which  meant 
the CHC told Miss F shed  need to co-operate with their solicitors to prevent being  
responsible for the hire car costs. 
Miss F was very upset about  this. She said she received  regularly chasers from the CHC 
and was very worried about the prospect of owing £3,600 and potential court action. 
In June 2018 esure told Miss F that even if the CHC hadnt guaranteed that the cost wouldnt 
fall on her, esure would  make sure Miss F didnt  have to pay the costs. It asked Miss F to 
forward any correspondence  she received in future from the CHC or their solicitors  for esure  
to deal with. 
esure paid Miss F £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its referral caused  
her. It reiterated that the CHC  solicitors  needed  Miss F to co-operate  with them.
Miss F told us that she doesnt feel the £150  compensation esure paid is enough. It doesnt 
prevent esure from doing what happened to her to other customers.  She said she lost sleep 
over the worry.
The claim has since been settled as the third party accepted liability  and paid the claim 
costs. 
Our investigator thought esure should pay Miss F an additional  £100  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused. 
esure didnt  agree. It said Miss F didnt  co-operate with the CHC solicitors  despite esures 
and their repeated  requests from Miss F to do so. It isnt unreasonable to require a customer 
to co-operate with a representatives  handling of a claim  and this would have been 
required irrespective of the car hire costs. Even so, both the CHC representative  and esure 
assured Miss F in June 2018 that she wouldnt be responsible for the car hire costs if she co-
operated  irrespective  of the outcome. So it had indemnified her against  any car hire costs. 
Ref: DRN02629982Miss F was in car hire for three  weeks. Under the policy, Miss Fs courtesy car would have 
been removed  a week after the incident  when her car was declared  a total loss. So esure  
said Miss F benefitted from a much  larger car and for three weeks  longer. 
Miss F didnt provide any further comments but also asked  that the case  be passed to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think esures assurance to Miss F in June  2018 that it would indemnify the costs  of £3,600 
as long as she co-operated with the CHC was a good starting point to put things right - in 
addition to the £150 compensation it paid. 
But I think Miss F was understandably caused considerable worry when she was regularly  
contacted by the CHC once the third party  disputed liability. Miss F was happy to accept the 
use of a basic courtesy car from esures  approved repairer. So this would  have been  
completely avoidable. Instead she was referred  by esures agent to a CHC and provided with 
a hire car which resulted in claim costs  of £3,600. I appreciate that  as esure says  Miss F 
agreed the contract with the CHC. But as the insurer, it shouldnt have carried  out the 
referral in the first place   which esure  does accept. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Services Limited  to 
pay Miss F £100 compensation in addition to the £150 its already paid her. 
esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss F 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If esure  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should also give Miss F a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0262998