K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance,  (PPI),  policy with a 
Marks & Spencer personal  reserve account.
Allianz Insurance Plc, (Allianz),  is responsible for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred  to 
Allianz throughout my decision.
background
Mrs P took out the policy in 1996. Because of the time that has passed, Allianz no longer 
has a record of how the policy was sold. But Mrs P says that it was in a meeting. Allianz has 
also been unable  to send us copies  of the paperwork signed by Mrs P. But it has sent us a 
sample of the personal reserve application  form which it says was in use at the time. Ive no 
reason to conclude  that the form signed  by Mrs P varied  from that. Ive used  all the above  
information in making  my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Allianz  had done anything wrong. So he didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld. As Mrs P disagreed, the matter has come to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
followed this in making my decision in Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. I explain why below.
I think that Mrs P knew that the policy was optional and that she chose to take it. I say this 
because the sample  form, to which Ive referred above, had a section in it dealing with PPI. If 
the Mrs P wanted to take out the insurance  she would have had to tick a box in the section 
and enter  information  about the intended  insured. Further there was a statement in the 
section saying We strongly  recommend you take this cover by ticking the box. Im satisfied 
that this made it clear  that there was a choice  whether to take out the policy  or not;
I dont think that it is likely that Allianz  advised Mrs P to take out the policy.  This meant that it 
was up to her to decide whether she wanted it, in the light of her financial circumstances at 
the time.  But Allianz had to give Mrs P clear, fair and not mis-leading information about the 
PPI so that she could  make that decision on a fully informed basis. I can see that the 
personal reserve account application form set out that the cost of the policy  was 65 pence  a 
month for each £100 outstanding on the account  balance. It also explained  what age and 
employment terms the applicant had to meet to be eligible for it. 
Its possible that Allianz didnt tell Mrs P everything else that it should have done about  the 
policy. But, knowing what I do about  its terms and conditions  and her circumstances at the 
time, she wasnt affected by any of its main limitations and restrictions. And following a 
successful claim  it would have paid 15% of her account balance  a month has she been off 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. These  payments would have been  
made until the earlier of her going  back to work or the balance  being paid off. And they 
Ref: DRN02452712would have been made in addition to any payments Mrs P would have been entitled  to from 
her employment or any savings she may have had. So I think that had Mrs P been given 
clear details about the PPI she would have still bought it.
This means  that Mrs P isnt worse  off because of anything  that may have  been  wrong  in 
Allianzs sales process. So theres nothing I require it to put right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0245271