K822xcomplaint
Mrs B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) gave  her incorrect  
information when  she asked it to clarify her cover limit on her pet insurance at the time her 
dog was just about to have an operation.
background 
Mrs B held her pet policy for her dog with RSA for many years.  On 25 September 2018, 
Mrs B received her renewal invite. She phoned RSA, as she was concerned  about  the 
increase in premium.  And they then discussed  how to bring the premium level down.  Mrs B 
then phoned back on 11 October 2018 and decided to downgrade her cover from £7,500 per 
year to £3,000  per year. 
On 30 January 2019, Mrs B phoned RSA again.  Mrs Bs dog had long-standing diabetes  and 
unfortunately now needed a cataract  operation due her diabetes. So Mrs B wanted to know if 
this would be covered.  She asked what was covered and asked was it £3,000.  RSAs  
system was down and it couldnt say at that time. Shortly  afterwards RSA then called Mrs B 
back and confirmed she had £7,479.85  left of cover for diabetes. Shortly  after this, Mrs B 
called RSA back again asking for this to be confirmed in an email. RSA then confirmed this 
in an email.
On 20 February 2019, Mrs Bs dog was at the specialist referral eye vet and due to have her 
operation the next day, but her vet had now told her that she only had £3,000 cover and had 
to pay 20% of the cost of the operation as an excess. So Mrs B phoned  RSA again. It again 
confirmed she had £7,500 worth of cover and had no 20% of the excess to pay. Mrs B asked 
for an email confirming this. The email  then didnt confirm this, so Mrs B called RSA again. 
RSA was then adamant she needed  to pay the 20% of cost excess. Mrs B asked to put 
through to a manager who wasnt able to confirm anything, as he wasnt a technical 
manager. Throughout some of these phone calls, Mrs B was halfway  between  the referral 
vets premises and her home  given  the referral vets were located  some distance away.  It was 
eventually left that Mrs B permitted her vet to do the operation. 
RSA finally  confirmed that Mrs B didnt  have to pay the 20% cost excess  but that her cover 
was only £3,000 not £7.500. Mrs Bs claim for this operation exceeded this limit. So RSA 
agreed to pay the remainder of her claim over the £3,000, which amounted  to £1,784.46. 
And it paid her £150 compensation for its failings.
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  with this, as her dog had ongoing further surgeries and of course had 
ongoing diabetes  costs. So she brought her complaint  to us. 
The investigator didnt  think RSA needed  to do any more than it had done. Mrs B didnt 
agree so her complaint  was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 February  and I said the following:
I consider its unreasonable to simply deal with this with the benefit of hindsight,  
which is what RSA has done. Clearly, Mrs B reduced her cover down to £3,000 in 
October 2018. Her schedule shows that. Whilst her schedule  explains the 20% 
excess is dependent on what age the dog is when treatment started  its not 
particular to Mrs Bs dog or her ongoing  diabetes  issues. So I consider it was this this 
that caused not only her referral vet to get confused but also the various RSA 
Ref: DRN07514882advisers who Mrs B talked to as well. This confusion started on 30 January 2019 
when Mrs B reasonably  enquired about the issue and RSA gave her utterly  incorrect  
advice.  
What happened  was Mrs B rang to clarify what her cover limit was. I dont consider 
there was anything wrong with that. Her dog had an ongoing issue, so she simply 
asked RSA for clarity.  RSA incorrectly told her both on the phone  and in writing, that 
she had £7,479.85 of cover  left for diabetes  or any diabetes related condition.  I also 
think there was nothing wrong  with Mrs B relying  on that. For Mrs B not to do so 
would have been irrational. So I consider this induced  Mrs B to arrange the cataract  
operation for her dog. Therefore, I consider its right RSA paid the remainder of that 
claim. Had it not have  done so, I would have  required  it do so.
However, it appears Mrs Bs dog required further  emergency surgeries, which  RSA 
has now said cant be covered because Mrs B has reached her £3,000 limit. 
However, what I consider  RSA has failed to do is to consider  whether these further 
surgeries were caused by cataract  operation. Mrs B says they were. And she said 
she is still needing ongoing eye drops.  If Mrs B is right (theres  no evidence  before 
me, in order  for me to assess  that), then it follows that because Mrs B was induced  
by RSA to get the cataract  operations done, it then ought to continue to pay Mrs Bs 
claims emanating from that cataract operation. Mrs B clearly  said in the call 
recordings of 21 February that had she been aware  of the extent of the costs it 
seemed she had to then pay, she would have put her dog to sleep, rather than 
organise this further cataract operation. So its clear to me she was categorically 
induced by RSAs  errors  of 30 January.  But I consider RSA should  only do this up to 
the limit of £7,500 including all the ongoing  eye drops for that policy  year. That is in 
my view the limit of its inducement to her.
If these further operations  are nothing to do with the cataract operation,  then I 
consider its right Mrs B only has a limit of £3,000 cover. This is because  its clear 
Mrs B did seek  to reduce  her cover limit in October 2018. And regardless of the utter 
confusion caused  by RSA in its communications  with Mrs B from 30 January 2019 to 
21 February, once the limit of its inducement to her regarding the cataract operation 
is reached, it remains Mrs B has only a £3,000  limit for anything else concerning  her 
dog to include ongoing other  diabetes  related  costs.  The nub of the issue  is solely  to 
do with the cataract  operation, given RSA induced Mrs B to go ahead  with that.  But  it 
hasnt induced her to continue to give insulin  to her dog, as Mrs B was doing  that 
before these phone  calls and much  more importantly was also doing that at the time 
she decided to reduce her cover.  And its clear Mrs B made that decision herself  and 
RSA was clear about it when it discussed  it with her back  in October 2018.  
So I consider RSA needs to ensure any further costs associated  with, or flowing from 
cataract operation  are paid up to the limit of £7,500 for the policy  year ending in 
October 2019. 
Ive listened to all the call recordings and I consider RSA failed Mrs B considerably. 
Her distress and upset  on the call recordings is very stark. Its also evident that none 
of the various  advisers could get to grips properly with what Mrs Bs cover  was. 
Thats a significant  failing  frankly in my view. The eventual adviser who finally cleared 
up the layers of confusion  was at times  less than clear also, most  especially 
concerning explaining to Mrs B coherently that her limit was £3,000. This is because 
Mrs B didnt know that, until her claim for the cataract operation wasnt paid in full. At 
Ref: DRN07514883the time,  this operative was instead concentrating on explaining  why the 20% vet 
cost excess wasnt applicable, given that wasnt easily understandable from Mrs Bs 
schedule. Its just wrong in my view however that RSA couldnt understand the cover 
it was providing to Mrs B at that time.
On 20 February, Mrs B was facing a situation  where she was parked up in the middle  
of nowhere between the referral vets premises and her home with her dog about  to 
undergo an operation the next morning with her vet saying she had to pay more.  She 
was still trying to get some clarity  from RSA at nearly 8pm at night, persistently 
explaining that had she known, she would  have put her dog to sleep and not through 
this operation. Thats grossly unreasonable in my view. Some of the conversations 
on that day were extremely poor,  given  the urgency of the situation and given the 
previous confirmation  by email of 30 January, which RSA had given to Mrs B. RSA 
singularly failed at that time to acknowledge what it told Mrs B on 30 January. 
Further, it didnt seem to understand its own schedule wording about the 20% vet 
costs excess either, as not one of them asked Mrs B what age her dog was when 
she was diagnosed with diabetes, nor it seems  could  they see that on the system.
So I dont  consider RSAs payment of £150  compensation to be enough. Its not my 
role or that of this service  to fine or punish  businesses in situations  like this, merely to 
compensate for the distress caused. Therefore, I consider RSA should increase its 
compensation payment to a total of £300. This is in line with what I have awarded 
previously in similar situations.
Both RSA and Mrs B responded  to my provisional decision.
Mrs B disclosed the further  costs  from her referral vets, which  concerns the ongoing issues 
arising from the cataract operation.  She also said she had to buy eye drops from her own vet 
plus pay a referral fee of which she will now get details. However, she believed she should 
have the ongoing costs  for anything to do with treating her dogs diabetes up to the £7,500 
as RSA confirmed  in its email to her of 30 January. She said she included the costs of 
insulin when  she was deciding to go ahead with the cataract operation too. Therefore she 
doesnt believe its fair now to backtrack on that. Otherwise Mrs B was satisfied with my 
provisional decision. 
RSA was concerned  what these  further  costs were  flowing from the cataract  operation, 
which we explained  that at the time the provisional  decision  was issued only Mrs B knew  
that.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have passed  the invoice Mrs B gave us from the referral eye specialist vet  to RSA for it 
to consider. And RSA should consider any further costs Mrs B gives  it directly from her own 
vet if these costs are as a result of the cataract operation.
Ive considered Mrs B further comments carefully.  Before  the issue of her dog requiring  
cataract surgery, Mrs B reduced her cover limit with RSA. She did this in October 2018. She 
knew then, as Ive listened to the phone calls, that her limit would be reduced to £3,000 and 
crucially this would include her ongoing costs  for treating  her dog for diabetes.  At that stage, 
Ref: DRN07514884Mrs B had been paying and claiming when  necessary for her costs  in treating her dogs 
diabetes. One of the reasons she gave for considering the reduction  of cover centred on the 
relatively low costs  she had up to that time.  So she made that decision on the basis of the 
diabetes costs at that time. There is no question that at that point, Mrs B thought her cover 
for diabetes  related issues, remained at £7,500. There is simply no question  of that on the 
contents of the two call recordings. 
RSA made  a mistake  in confirming to Mrs B on 30 January that everything related to 
diabetes treatment including  other  issues developing as a result of it, had a limit of £7,500.  
That mistake  clearly  induced Mrs B to going ahead in organising  the cataract operation  for 
her dog. However, I remain of the view it didnt induce her to continue to treat her dog with 
insulin as she had already  made the decision  to reduce her cover, knowing what her insulin 
costs for her dog were. It might well be that Mrs B now regrets  reducing her cover  but thats 
irrelevant, as regards  the mistake  RSA made  on 30 January  2019.  I dont consider it either  
fair or reasonable  to say RSA must either  pay all diabetes costs  for that policy  year up to a 
limit of £7,500. This is because the extra costs Mrs B incurred were solely to do with the 
cataract operation,  not the continuing  insulin treatment, which she had already decided  
previously would only be covered at a cover limit of £3,000 per year when she reduced her 
cover in October 2018. 
So I think its fair that everything emanating  from the cataract  operation is paid up the limit of 
£7,500 for that policy year. Everything else including on-going  insulin charges remains at the 
limit of £3,000 for that policy year.  Mrs Bs policy year is from 14 October each year.  So 
these limits of £7,500  for cataract issues and £3,000 for all other issues  expired in October  
2019. From  then on Mrs B remains on a limit of £3,000  as per her renewal  in October  2018,  
as she was clearly told she wouldnt be permitted to increase it again once she reduced it. 
RSA made  this very clear in my view in the call recordings of October 2018. 
So on this basis my decision remains as per my provisional decision.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to do the following
Assess Mrs B further claims caused  by, related  to or flowing from her dogs  cataract 
operation. And pay the same up to the limit of £7,500 for that policy year only.
Assuming Mrs B has paid these costs, it should  refund Mrs B the costs,  adding 8% 
simple interest from the date Mrs B paid them to the date of its refund. If income tax 
is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to 
Mrs B for HMRC  purposes.  
Ensure Mrs B is paid a total of £300  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Ref: DRN07514885Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0751488