K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has taken £1,000  from his account 
without good reason.  He wants the money  returned to him.
background
Mr Z had two accounts with NatWest.  In June 2018 he took cash  to a bank branch. He paid 
£4,000 in £20 notes  into one account   which isnt in dispute. He then handed  over a bundle 
of £10 notes, to be paid into his other account.  
The cashier counted the money and gave Mr Z a receipt for £1,950;  his account was 
credited with the same amount. 
Over a week  later Mr Z received a telephone call to tell him there  was a problem with his 
account. Mr Z thought  the call might have been  fraudulent, but in fact it was the bank. It had 
identified that the cashier  had made an error  and that hed only handed over £950, not 
£1,950. His account was debited with the additional  £1,000.
Mr Z said that the bank  should not have  debited his account and referred his complaint to 
this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She concluded however that Mr Z 
had only paid in £950 and that NatWest was therefore entitled to correct  its error and adjust 
his account balance. Mr Z didnt accept  the investigators findings and asked that an 
ombudsman review them.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
The bank says that it checked security  footage  from the time when Mr Z paid in the money 
on more than one occasion. It showed the cashier  counting the money,  which  the bank 
said  was less than £1,000. I note that more than one person viewed that footage.  Whilst 
Ive no reason to doubt what the bank  said about  this, it would of course have been helpful if 
that footage had been retained  until Mr Zs complaint was resolved. Its important evidence,  
and the footage itself would have been  more helpful  than the staff members  recollections of 
it. 
I have however also seen the cash breakdown voucher that the cashier  completed  when the 
money was paid in. It shows the cashier  recorded  that ninety-five £10 notes were paid in, but 
that the total was £1,950.  Both cannot have been  right. But the banks records also show  
that there  was a difference  of more than £1,000  when the branch  tills were balanced  that 
is, there was more than £1,000 less in the tills than there should have been. Thats 
consistent with Mr Z having  handed in £950 but with an amount of £1,950  having  been 
recorded. I think the most likely explanation is that the cashier counted out £950 but in error 
recorded a different total  which was then noted in the banks internal records  and on Mr Zs 
receipt. 
Im satisfied therefore that the bank was correct to adjust Mr Zs account when the error 
came to light. I note that its paid him £50 in recognition of the error and the inconvenience to 
which it put Mr Z, and believe that this is sufficient to resolve his complaint. 
Ref: DRN09142642my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to so anything further 
to resolve Mr Zs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0914264