K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) wont pay his home insurance 
claim for theft of a number of valuable items and cash following a burglary at his home.
background
Mr M made a claim to L&G in January 2018 following a break  in at an annex/cottage  in the 
grounds of the insured home. His position  was that he had moved out of the main  home  in 
March 2017 and had removed his contents from there to the annex in November 2017,  
where he now lived. He had business premises, a clinic in the grounds which were 
separately insured.
After investigation  of the matter L&G decided it wouldnt  pay the claim. This was because it 
hadnt been notified that Mr M had moved  into the annex. It considered this to be separate  
from the main home and separately registered at the land registry.  It also pointed out that the 
annex had a separate address and was separately  rated. So as the items were stolen from 
premises which werent covered under the policy L&G declined to pay the claim. Mr M had 
the land registry title amended and for the 2018 renewal the cottage/annex and a log cabin 
in the grounds  were  noted on the policy. Mr M also complained about  the delay in dealing 
with the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint  she said that at the 
time of the theft the cottage/annex  wasnt  included  in the policy or the land registry title. The 
fact that it is now included in the land registry title and then was noted on the policy didnt 
affect this as it wasnt done at the time of the claim.
Mr M didnt  agree  he said the cottage/annex wasnt registered at any time with a separate  
title and that the separate address was one created by the local authority for the purpose of 
levying business  rates for the clinic.
I issued a provisional decision. Having  asked Mr M to mark the annex and log cabin on the 
land registry plan supplied by L&G, I said that Mr M had shown that the annex  and log cabin 
were part of the title at the time the claim, and that L&G should reconsider the claim.
L&G said in the initial stages of this claim it was confirmed  by Mr M that this building was part 
of his commercial enterprise,  was separately numbered, rated as such  and insured under a 
separate business risk policy and for which a claim was made for the damage to it and loss 
of business items/cash  therein. His advices previously were  that the annex/cottage  was used 
as accommodation  for visiting professionals. On his statement of facts (in applying  for the 
policy) he confirms that no business whatsoever was carried  out from the home and that it 
was not used for anything other  than his permanent residence thus supporting this view. The 
land registry would not have charged business  rates on a building  if it did not warrant  it.
Mr M did not agree that there was a separate land registry title on the annex/cottage but
nevertheless, confirms he had this changed.  It did not request sight of these title/deed  
changes at renewal  2018, when he approached his broker to specifically add this building  to 
his portfolio policy, but accepted what it was told. L&G understands  I have not seen them but 
have relied on Mr Ms verbal  submission  in relation to the positioning of this annex. It thinks  it 
would be imperative that it sees the deeds  to clearly establish the position.  
Mr M accepted my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN03501252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
The issue I have to decide  is whether the annex/cottage (from where  the items were  stolen) 
was part of the property insured by L&G. Mr M didnt  advise L&G when he moved into the 
cottage/annex. The policy covers theft of Household goods and personal property that 
belong to You [the policyholder]
The policy covers the home which is defined as The private  dwelling and its domestic 
outbuildings and garages at the address shown on Your Schedule.
And buildings are defined  as: Your Home, its fixtures and fittings and any other permanent  
structure within the boundary of Your Home. 
It does appear to me that the policy covers the annex/cottage as it is part if the home 
according to the definitions  in the policy. L&G asserts that its investigations show  that the 
annex is separately registered at the land registry.  It further says that after the claim Mr M 
reregistered the property  with new boundaries.
We asked L&G for evidence of its assertions  it has shown us a land registry filed plan 
(before any reregistration) and an internet aerial  image. I asked Mr M to identify where the 
buildings are on those  documents.  It appears that the main  house, the annex/cottage  and 
the log cabin are all within the boundaries of the main home according to the land registry  
plan. There is a separate building  which Mr M has told us is the clinic. That,  from the plan 
would appear  to be outside  the original boundaries of the home. I havent seen any 
documentary evidence  that the boundaries were  changed to incorporate the annex/cottage.
L&G has pointed out that the clinic  is shown  as a different address on a rating bill and says 
the annex is part of that. As well as the fact that the annex is in a different location, Mr M 
tells us that that that was created by the local authority so that it could separately charge 
business rates when  the clinic was built. Since rates  are only charged on business  
properties and as the clinic is a separate  building I dont  think that affects the matter.
I think that Mr M has adequately shown  that the annex/cottage from which the theft took 
place are and have always been in the boundaries of the home and were therefore covered 
under the policy  when  the theft took place. The fact that L&G agreed  to the buildings being  
noted on the policy at renewal reinforces  this. I dont think that L&G has been able to show 
us that the annex was ever registered under a separate title. So I think it should  reconsider 
Mr Ms claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr M says that there were delays in processing his claim. It was obviously a complicated  
one involving having to obtain evidence concerning the title and was also complicated by the 
fact that part of the theft was of business  items which should have been  covered under the 
business policy. I dont  think that there were inordinate delays  in this case.
Ref: DRN03501253As I pointed  out to L&G I havent just relied  on Mr Ms verbal submissions about the 
positioning of the annex. As all I could see from L&Gs  investigations was a land registry 
plan, I asked Mr M to mark the annex  and log cabin on the said plan. The buildings appear  
very clearly to be within the same boundary as the house so at the time of making the claim 
came within the definition of the home/buildings in the policy.
I dont think that Mr Ms use of part of the premises for business is relevant to the 
consideration of the claim. L&G accepted the change  to the policy  without question, and any 
business items are insured separately. 
I dont see that there is any need  to see the updated deeds. L&G could at any time have 
applied to the land registry for the entries  on the title and filed plan. I dont know  why Mr M 
re-registered the title, but as the disputed buildings appear to have been  part of the title to 
the house at the time of the claim, I dont think its relevant.
My provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I propose to uphold the complaint and to require Legal & General Insurance  Limited (L&G) to 
reconsider Mr Ms claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Ray Lawley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0350125