K820x#14complaint
Mrs L, through her representative, complains that MoneyGram International Limited didnt  
follow her instructions when she asked  it to transfer  €1,000 to her friends  account.  
background
On 23 September  2018 Mrs L sent €1,000 to her friends account  via MoneyGram. Her 
friend also sent the same amount to the same account on the same day. Her friends money 
arrived but her transfer didnt. So she wants MoneyGram to refund her the money.
MoneyGram sent Mrs L a final response  letter saying the money  had been  deposited  
successfully. After  this Service became involved  it said that Mrs Ls money was sent to a 
different account  to where her friend  sent her money. And it said both transactions had been 
deposited in the two accounts as requested. 
Once our investigator  had looked  at all the documents MoneyGram sent him he said he 
could see that the two transfers had been made  successfully. So he didnt think  MoneyGram 
had done anything wrong.
Mrs L wasnt happy with this. She said, through her representative, that her transfer should 
have gone to the same account as her friends money. So MoneyGram must have sent it to 
the wrong account.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 23 September  2018 Mrs L and her friend made two transfers  to the same  person. There 
arent any details of the account number on the form they completed. But I can see that Mrs 
Ls friends transfer  arrived  in an account  ending 400-00-7043. Mrs Ls money was 
transferred to an account ending 430-00-7043. The receiving bank confirmed both receipts 
into those accounts.  Both accounts were in the name of the same person.
MoneyGram said that Mrs L had successfully  transferred two previous similar amounts to the 
same recipient with the account number  ending in 430-00-7043 in February 2018 and those 
account details  had been stored. And so they were  used again this time when Mrs L asked 
to send the money to that person. 
Our investigator asked  Mrs Ls representative to confirm whether the intended  recipient  of 
the funds had two accounts and whether the two transfers had been received in February  
2018 without any problems. But the representative  said it was for an unrelated account not 
owned by the intended recipient of the September transfer so he couldnt  see why it was 
important and he couldnt get any further  details.
Where the evidence is contradictory or inconsistent as it is here,  I have to make my decision 
on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Ref: DRN03330802MoneyGram has sent us evidence that all three  transfers (two from February 2018 and one 
from September 2018) were made to the same person. MoneyGram said that these details 
were used to create a receivers registration  number (RNN). Those details were stored so 
that if Mrs L wanted to make another transfer to the same person the agent can pull up those 
details.
Mrs Ls representative says the transfer  she made  in September  2018 went into the wrong  
account. But it went to the account  shed used in February 2018 and it was to the same 
recipient. 
The receiving bank  has confirmed that Mrs Ls payment went into the account  of the 
intended recipient as named on the transfer  form in September 2018.
So I think it was reasonably likely that MoneyGram  carried out Mrs Ls instructions correctly 
and that the money was paid to the intended recipient although into a different account to 
that of her friends  transfer. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0333080