K821x#15complaint
Mr F2 complains on behalf of his late fathers  (Mr F1s) estate about the service received 
from St. James's Place  Unit Trust Group Limited  referred to as the business.  
background
In my provisional decision of 23 December  2020,  a copy of which  is enclosed  below and 
forms part of this final decision, I upheld the complaint. In short,  I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business has provided 
the estate of Mr F1 a very poor service.     
I appreciate that the business  accepts  that its behaviour has caused Mr F2 distress and 
inconvenience and thats why it offered to pay him £200 compensation for this, but that 
doesnt really address  the primary issue which is that the ISA still hasnt been transferred 
into Mr F2s mothers  name.  
On balance I think the business  needs  to take proactive steps  to resolve this issue  so that 
Mr F2 can successfully  transfer the ISA from his late fathers name  to his mothers  name.  I 
dont think its acceptable that Mr F2 (and his mother) are still waiting to transfer  since 
applying to do so in 2018. 
I also note that Mr F2 has had to chase the business  before being told that his form was 
filled out incorrectly, without offering  any helpful  guidance on how it could be rectified.  I note 
that it wasnt until our involvement  that he was told by the business that he had to write  
deceased in the space for his late fathers name
 Ive no doubt  that Mr F2 has been  caused  distress and inconvenience by this whole 
process. However, as an executor and a representative of Mr F1s estate,  Im unable  to ask 
the business to pay him any compensation. Even  if Mr F2 has his own account  with the 
business, as representative of Mr F1s estate hes not acting in a personal  capacity,  and 
therefore isnt entitled to any compensation.  
The rules  set out in the Handbook of the industry  regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, 
state that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant   or a deceased 
person who would have been  an eligible complainant. That is the basis  on which Mr F2  the 
executor  has brought this complaint. Hes not an eligible complainant in his own right and 
therefore isnt entitled to an award  for distress and inconvenience. 
So, whilst a business  doesnt have to consider any distress and inconvenience caused 
towards an executor  for the reasons  Ive explained,  it can choose to do so as the business 
has done in this case by offering Mr F2 £200.
Mr F2 responded and accepted my provisional  decision. He said:
I welcome the Financial  Ombudsman's provisional decision. I don't have
any further comments to make other than that I do trust that we are now able to resolve  this 
issue.
The business also responded  and accepted  my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN03508422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new submissions  from the parties, my decision as set out in 
my provisional decision remains the same.  
I uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN03508423COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr F2 complains on behalf of his late fathers (Mr F1s) estate about  the service received from St. 
James's Place Unit Trust Group Limited referred to as the business.   
background
In 2018, Mr F2 applied by post (as instructed by the business) to transfer an ISA  formerly held in Mr 
F1s name   to his mother.  
In the absence  of any acknowledgement or reply he made enquiries  with the business, only to be told 
that hed filled out the transfer form incorrectly. He was asked  to fill out a new form and some 
assistance was given over the telephone. 
In due course Mr F2 contacted the business again, only to be told that hed completed the form 
incorrectly, so Mr F2 raised a formal  complaint  with the business. 
The business  upheld the complaint and offered him £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  In summary, he 
said: 
Although the business told him that Mr F2 shouldve written  deceased in the space provided 
for Mr F1s name, there was no guidance about  this and Mr F1 wouldnt  have known  unless 
specifically told by the business.  
To put things right the business should do the following:
oProvide Mr F2 with the correct form and check that its been filled out correctly before 
its submitted. 
oPay Mr F2 another £100 compensation  - £300 in total  for the trouble and upset  
caused. 
Mr F2 accepted the investigators view and made the following additional submissions:
Before  referring  his complaint to our service, he asked the business to complete the form with 
the correct information so he and his mother could review  and then sign and return the form, 
but this didnt happen.   
Surely the person  or department  responsible  could send out the form as requested.   
Neither he (as executor  of his fathers estate) nor his mother have received any six-monthly 
statements since 2018. 
The business has provided very poor customer service. 
The business  hasnt provided any response to date,  so the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business has provided the estate of 
Mr F1 a very poor service.     
I appreciate that the business accepts that its behaviour  has caused Mr F2 distress  and 
inconvenience and thats why it offered to pay him £200  compensation for this, but that doesnt really 
Ref: DRN03508424address the primary issue  which  is that the ISA still hasnt been transferred into Mr F2s mothers 
name.  
On balance I think the business  needs  to take proactive  steps to resolve  this issue so that Mr F2 can 
successfully transfer the ISA from his late fathers name  to his mothers name. I dont think  its 
acceptable that Mr F2 (and his mother) are still waiting to transfer since applying to do so in 2018. 
I also note that Mr F2 has had to chase the business before being  told that his form was filled out 
incorrectly, without offering any helpful guidance  on how it could  be rectified. I note that it wasnt until 
our involvement  that he was told by the business that he had to write  deceased in the space for his 
late fathers name. 
Its evidently clear that Mr F2 (and his mother) want the ISA to remain  invested rather  than close the 
account  which may be subject to additional costs and delays  and simply  transfer ownership.  
Its not clear why the business hasnt been able to provide Mr F2 with the correct  guidance since 
2018. I think  it should  do so as a matter  of urgency so the ISA can finally be transferred into his 
mothers name. I think it should also provide  the six-monthly statements that Mr F2 says its failed to 
provide since  the application was submitted.  
Ive no doubt that Mr F2 has been caused distress and inconvenience by this whole process. 
However, as an executor  and a representative of Mr F1s estate, Im unable to ask the business  to 
pay him any compensation. Even  if Mr F2 has his own account with the business, as representative  of 
Mr F1s estate hes not acting in a personal  capacity,  and therefore isnt entitled to any compensation. 
The rules set out in the Handbook of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, state 
that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible  complainant  or a deceased person who 
would have been an eligible complainant. That is the basis on which Mr F2  the executor  has 
brought this complaint. Hes not an eligible complainant  in his own right and therefore  isnt entitled to 
an award for distress  and inconvenience. 
So, whilst a business doesnt have to consider any distress and inconvenience  caused towards  an 
executor for the reasons  Ive explained, it can choose  to do so as the business has done in this case 
by offering Mr F2 £200.  
I appreciate the investigator thinks  the business should pay £300  compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  but this isnt something I can ask the business  to do. That said,  in the 
circumstances the business  may choose  to do so of its own accord. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold 
this complaint. 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0350842