K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc mishandled and delayed for a year his application to 
switch his mortgage from interest  only to capital repayment.
To resolve  his complaint  he wants Santander to refund to him all his monthly  payments for 
that year.
background
Mr As complaint to us refers to his letter  of complaint to Santander dated 5 December 2018.
In that letter  he said he had taken an interest-only  mortgage with Santander in June  2011,  
for a term ending in May 2018.
He said that in May 2017, Santander had written to him to enquire  what his plans were  to 
repay the outstanding balance. Hed replied on 13 June 2017  that he wanted to change  from 
interest-only to capital repayment. Following  a telephone interview Santander had informed  
him by telephone  that his application to change from interest-only  to capital repayment had 
been approved.  Santander had also told him how much his monthly payment would be, 
which hed accepted. The necessary forms had been sent to him and hed completed these 
and returned them to Santander. Santander  had acknowledged receipt of the completed 
forms by letter dated 21 June 2017.
Mr A went  on to say that between November/December  2017  and December 2018 
Santander had failed to honour this agreement. Its failure to implement the agreement had 
been communicated to him in July 2018. Mr A said that Santanders inaction had been  
deliberate while it had continued the monthly  deductions from his bank account.  
Santander replied  on 18 December 2018. It said Mr A had made a previous complaint which 
Santander had upheld. It had paid him £100  compensation because  it should have 
contacted him to make him aware  that it hadnt  received  the correct  paperwork from him to 
convert his interest  only mortgage to repayment. It had received the signature page for the 
mortgage account fee.
As part of the resolution of the previous complaint  Santander had agreed to convert  the 
mortgage to repayment, and although  only a partial conversion was approved  owing to 
affordability, an exception was made  to also extend  the term past the age of 75 years to 
allow a full conversion to take place.
However, before this conversion took place Mr A had confirmed he was moving his 
mortgage to another lender. Mr A had requested a refund of all his mortgage payments from 
December 2017  until the account  was closed but Santander wasnt  willing to do that.
Mr A then brought  his complaint to us. He said the complaint was about  how long it took 
Santander to convert  the mortgage from interest  only to repayment.  Because of this he 
endured stress and consequently moved  his mortgage away.  To resolve the complaint he 
wanted a refund of his payments for the year it took to complete the process.
Our investigator said Santander  had made  errors twice. When Mr A asked Santander to 
change from interest  only to capital repayment in June 2017,  Santander  had reviewed his 
application and offered  him a part interest  only, part capital  repayment mortgage. Santander 
had asked Mr A to sign a form in December 2017  to accept  the change. Santander received 
Ref: DRN07145932the wrong document but didnt tell Mr A, so the change wasnt  made.  Santander didnt give 
Mr A fresh documentation  until he raised  a complaint in July 2018. This delayed  the part 
conversion.
To resolve  the July 2018 complaint Santander had agreed to extend the term of the 
mortgage past the age of 75 and allow a full conversion to take place instead of part 
conversion, backdating to December  2017.  Mr A submitted  a new set of application forms 
and required  documents in August 2018. However there were  further delays  in processing 
his application  from August  2018  onwards. Santander had concerns about  affordability and 
extending the term of the mortgage past the age of 75. Santander started looking at 
extending the term and converting  the mortgage  to capital repayment in August 2018 and 
was still considering the application three months later - in November 2018.
The investigator said the change which should have been made in December 2017  would 
have meant  a significant increase in Mr As monthly payments and he should have expected  
his monthly mortgage  payments to increase from January or February 2018. In addition  
Santander sent end of term letters to Mr A in March  and April 2018  reminding him that the 
mortgage was coming  to an end in May 2018 and that he should have enough savings to 
repay the mortgage. These matters should have alerted Mr A that his mortgage hadnt been  
changed as intended. So despite Santanders  errors Mr A also shared some responsibility  as 
he should have  followed up with Santander.
Santander had already  paid Mr A £100  for the trouble and upset  caused  to him by its 
mistake in not contacting him when  it received the incorrect documentation  in December 
2017. Because of the error made by Santander in December 2017 Mr A had had to go 
through the inconvenience of submitting a new application form and documents in August 
2018. Santander then failed to give that application fair and reasonable consideration in a 
timely manner. The investigator recommended that Santander pay an additional £400 for the 
trouble and upset  caused, to make a total of £500.
Neither party accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr A didnt consider £500 to be 
sufficient and asked  for £800. Santanders position was that a total award of £250  was 
appropriate. So the complaints been passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears from Mr As response to the investigators  recommendation that he had accepted  
her view that she couldnt fairly ask Santander  to pay the difference  between  the amount he 
paid to redeem  the mortgage and the amount this would have been had the changes taken 
place. Nor would I consider it fair or reasonable to order Santander to refund all of his 
mortgage payments  from December 2017  until the account was closed. It cant  be said with 
certainty that if Santander had dealt with the application more quickly,  it would have been 
granted. This complaint  is about delay, not about unfair refusal  of the application. And Mr A 
still owed the money.  The change which should have been made in December 2017  would 
have meant  a significant increase in Mr As monthly payments. Placing him in the position he 
would have been in wouldnt just be a matter of refunding his mortgage  payments.
And Mr A should have  expected his monthly  mortgage payments to increase from January 
or February  2018.  In addition Santander  sent end of term letters  to Mr A in March and 
Ref: DRN07145933April 2018 reminding him that the mortgage  was coming  to an end in May 2018 and that he 
should have enough savings to repay  the mortgage. These matters should have alerted 
Mr A that his mortgage hadnt been  changed  as intended. So despite Santanders errors 
Mr A also shared some responsibility as he should have followed up with Santander.
But I dont consider that a total award of £250  meets the case either. Mr A has explained that 
the situation caused him significant  stress,  as he was aware the mortgage term had ended,  
and the balance was due. Santanders promise to convert the mortgage  to capital repayment 
meant he didnt seek funding from an alternative lender sooner. Santander had made  errors 
on two occasions  which had caused significant delays in processing  Mr As application.
Santander had concerns  about affordability and extending the term of the mortgage. The 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Mortgages  and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) says that a lender must carry out a full affordability assessment and a 
full assessment of interest only repayment  strategy,  when entering into or varying a 
mortgage. However the transitional  arrangements  in MCOB 11.7 say those requirements 
dont apply where the loan was taken out before April 2014,  hasnt  been  increased since  
then, and the proposed new or varied  loan is in the borrowers best interests.
So Santander wasnt obliged  to refuse  Mr As request on the grounds  of affordability if the 
term extension and change to repayment  were  in his best interests, which  it seems  to me 
that they must have been, in the absence of any evidence  that he had other  means of 
making full repayment  at the end of the term. The point of mentioning this is that it makes it 
doubly unfair that Mr As application  was delayed as a result of Santanders  considering 
matters which it wasnt obliged to consider  anyway.
Taking all these matters into account its my view that the investigators  recommended  total 
award of £500  for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr A was appropriate.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr A £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0714593