K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) lent irresponsibly by 
continually increasing  his credit limit.
background
Mr C had a credit card with Barclaycard. Although he was only making the minimum monthly 
payments Barclaycard kept increasing his credit limit. In 2017 Mr C contacted the business  
because he was having financial problems. And he was told he could make an informal  
arrangement to pay.
Mr C told Barclaycard how much he could afford. But he didnt receive a response.  And he 
later received a letter to say he was in arrears.  Mr C says he feels like he is being  punished  
for complaining. He would  like Barclaycard  to write  off the credit increases for the past six 
years as the lending was irresponsible.  
Barclaycard said it could see itd increased  Mr Cs credit  limit on a number of occasions 
since hed opened  the account in 2003. But it felt the account  had been well managed at the 
time of each  increase. It had no reason to believe Mr C couldnt manage  his finances even if 
the limit was being  fully utilised. And Mr C always had the option to decline each credit 
increase. So it didnt feel itd lent irresponsibly.
Barclaycard said if Mr C got in touch  with further  details of his current income and 
expenditure it could  look at his offer and make sure he was getting the right support. 
Barclaycard apologised for not responding to his offer sooner. And it paid Mr C £50 
compensation for the delay. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards  response.  So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He explained  the rules of our service meant he could  only 
look at the increases which  had taken place in the last six years. He could see Mr Cs credit  
limit had been increased eight times  over a period of about  13 years. The last increase had 
been in September 2016. Mr C had contacted Barclaycard in July 2017  about his financial 
difficulties. And hed missed his first payment in February 2018.
Our investigator looked at the limit increases thatd been applied to Mr Cs card. But he felt 
Mr C had managed his card well during the period. He was using the account  in line with his 
agreement. So he didnt think his balance or payment history were  reasons not to lend to 
him. He looked at the criteria Barclaycard used to assess Mr Cs ability  to repay the lending. 
And there was a low probability of default. He couldnt see anything  on Mr Cs credit file to 
suggest he was finding it difficult to manage  his other debts.  So he didnt  think  Barclaycard 
had acted irresponsibly  by increasing  Mr Cs credit limit.
When Mr C contacted the business about his payments  it didnt respond  for over a month. 
But he felt the offer of £50 compensation for the delay was reasonable. And he felt 
Barclaycard had responded sympathetically to Mr Cs financial difficulties. 
Mr C didnt agree. Hed found  the process of trying to complete expense forms extremely 
distressing. And he didnt  consider Barclaycard a responsible lender. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN01608882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained  to Mr C that our service is only able to look at the credit  
increases in the six year period before Mr C brought the complaint.  Mr C says Barclaycard 
shouldnt have kept increasing  his credit. He was always near his limit. And he was only able 
to make the minimum payments each month. 
I do sympathise with the financial  difficulties Mr C has experienced. So Ive looked very 
carefully at everything  Mr C and Barclaycard have said. And whether Barclaycard has done 
anything wrong  it needs  to put right.
Mr C feels Barclaycard lent irresponsibly.  So Ive looked at the criteria Barclaycard used to 
determine whether  to offer Mr C each credit  increase. This includes his previous account 
management, affordability and information from the credit reference agencies.  I can see 
Mr Cs credit limit was just over £2000 in 2012. Further  increases  were offered every year or 
so. And the last increase  to Mr Cs credit limit was in 2016 when the limit was raised to 
£12000.
Ive looked at the information Barclaycard used to determine when offering the increases. It 
looked at previous account management and external data as previously mentioned.  And it 
calculated the likelihood  of Mr C not being  about to meet his agreed payments. For example  
when considering the 2016 increase, Barclaycard calculated the chance of Mr C defaulting 
on his account  within the next 12 months  was less than 5%. And I understand Mr C was able 
to meet  his monthly payment requirements  until February 2018.
Mr C says he was using  up each  new credit increase with further spending. And he feels  
Barclaycard shouldnt have kept offering him more. Barclaycard has responded that it felt 
each one was affordable.  And Mr C couldve turned down any of the credit increases.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr C wasnt able to manage  his Barclaycard account at the 
time his credit  limit was increased.  Hed kept his spending within  the agreed limits. And he 
was making his monthly payments.  And I havent seen any negative information on Mr Cs 
credit file to suggest  he was struggling  with other debts at the time.  
When Mr C contacted Barclaycard in July 2017 to explain he was experiencing financial 
difficulty I would expect  the business  to respond positively and sympathetically. I can see 
Mr C was referred to its support team although  Mr C wasnt able to carry out an income and 
expenditure assessment at the time.  I do appreciate the pressure he felt under trying to 
manage his borrowing and respond to Barclaycards requests for information.  It mustve  
been a very difficult  and stressful experience. 
Mr C offered to pay £100 each month  and I can see Barclaycard  has credited his account  
with £50 compensation for the delay in responding to his offer. 
I realise Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome.  But based  on what  Ive seen I think  
Barclaycard has followed  its procedures correctly. I cant say Barclaycard responded 
unsympathetically to Mr Cs circumstances. And I dont think it lent irresponsibly  when  
offering increases in his credit  limit. So I wont be upholding  his complaint.
Ref: DRN01608883my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0160888