K822xcomplaint
Miss K and her representative complain about how long it took for Shop  Direct Finance 
Company Limited  (trading  as Littlewoods)  to process a refund. 
background 
Miss K bought  an item from Shop Direct in December 2016 which was returned on 1 August 
2018 as it was faulty. A credit  was applied to Miss Ks account  on 17 September 2018 and 
the refund  cheque  was sent out on 15 October 2018 which included a £15 credit  on top of 
the products original  cost. Miss K and her representative are unhappy at the time all this 
took. They say they had to repeatedly communicate  with Shop Direct and they want £80 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Miss K received her refund ten weeks after she returned the item which isnt 
reasonable. Shop Direct shouldve been able to locate details of the purchase sooner 
and as the item was returned for being  faulty the refund  shouldve been  made more  
quickly and a cheque  sent sooner, particularly as the product was an item for home 
security. 
Shop  Direct also didnt keep Miss K updated  about the process or how long it would 
take. 
Shop  Direct took longer than it shouldve done  to process the refund  and it should  
pay £80 compensation to Miss K for this. Shes already been refunded the £15 credit 
she mentioned.
Miss Ks representative says this isnt enough  compensation and has asked for an 
ombudsman review. She thinks £200 is appropriate. She says in summary  that the item was 
bought on Miss Ks account for her, the representative. Thats  why shes dealt directly with 
Shop Direct. The representative says her time spent on this matter  is worth £200 for all the 
long calls needed. She remains unhappy with the way Shop Direct  has dealt with matters.
The investigator responded that as Miss Ks account was used to buy the product Miss K is 
the eligible  complainant to us. We can only consider the effect a mistake has on the 
business customer. Our recommendation of compensation is based  on everything that has 
happened and what we think is fair and reasonable overall.
Shop Direct has agreed to pay Miss K £80 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears the product was bought for Miss Ks representative on Miss Ks account.  That 
means that Miss K is the eligible  complainant  to us as she is Shop  Directs  customer. 
Ref: DRN04282232Miss Ks representative would like £200 compensation for her time and the inconvenience  of 
pursuing matters with Shop Direct. 
Ive no doubt dealing with this matter  took time and effort on the part of Miss Ks 
representative. But I dont  agree  that I can award her any compensation for this even  at the 
notional cost of her time calculated at minimum wage rates as shed like.
I can only award compensation,  if Im minded to do so, to the eligible complainant who in this 
case is Miss K, not to her representative.
Furthermore all consumers and their representatives spend some  time and experience  some  
additional inconvenience  in dealing with a complaint  and putting things right.  We wouldnt 
generally recommend  theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably depart from this approach. 
Shop Direct shouldve  reasonably made the refund  to Miss K for this faulty  item more quickly 
than it did. And as there was an unreasonable delay in this happening Miss K may well have 
experienced some distress and inconvenience even  though her representative  was the main 
person dealing with Shop Direct.
Shop Direct has agreed to pay Miss K £80 compensation. Taking  everything  into account I 
dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require it to increase this offer and pay any more.
And although I recognise Miss Ks representatives  frustration I dont see any compelling  
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as 
Littlewoods) should pay £80 compensation to Miss K. 
Shop Direct must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Miss K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Shop Direct considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss K how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0428223