K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with a car he acquired using finance provided by FirstRand  Bank Limited 
trading as Motonovo Finance. He says he had various issues with the car and asked  
Motonovo to allow him to reject  it.
background
In May 2018  Mr T acquired a used  car from a dealer.  Before agreeing to take it, Mr T says 
when test driving the car he noticed  issues with the paintwork  and a vibration when braking. 
He says the dealer told him these  issues would be sorted out before he collected it.
The car was around  three years old and had done around 39,658 miles when Mr T got it. The 
cash price of the car was £13,199.  Mr T paid a deposit of £250, and part exchanged another  
car for £10,500.  The car Mr T part exchanged had outstanding finance of £12,812.90.  
This meant the total amount outstanding for Mr T to acquire the car was £15,261.90.  This 
was funded by Motonovo  in the form of a hire purchase agreement  for £11,113.81  and a 
personal loan for £4148.09. The lending was all taken over a term of 61 months, with 
monthly repayments of £227.88 and £85.05 for the hire purchase and personal loan 
respectively. The total repayments were £312.93 a month.
Mr T says he has had various issues with the car, including problems with 
juddering/vibrating, noises from wheels and suspension, losing power and paintwork defects. 
The car was returned to have issues repaired on several occasions.  I wont list out the full 
history of the repairs and investigations here,  as this is quite extensive and is well known by 
both parties. But starting less than a month after Mr T got the car, and up to around January 
2019, on at least  eight occasions it was returned  for work - with further visits to try to rectify 
problems with the paintwork. 
Mr T complained to Motonovo in November 2018.  He said there were still issues  with the cars 
paintwork, losing power and noises when driving. I can see from Motonovos notes that he 
asked to reject the car at this time.  Motonovo arranged for an independent inspection to be 
done which was completed in January 2019. At this point  the cars mileage was around 51,506. 
The inspector said they didnt find any loss of power  from the car. But they did say there was 
a whirring noise which was due to a wheel  bearing  fault and that the suspension  had wear  
and a rattle. However, it said it thought these issues were unlikely to have existed  when Mr T 
got the car and had most  likely  occurred  in the last 1,000 miles of driving.
Motonovo issued  its final response later in January 2019. It said Mr T wouldve been able to 
inspect the cosmetics of the car before  he got it and thought the standard  of the paintwork 
was appropriate  for its age and mileage. It acknowledged  various issues  with the car but said 
most of these had been repaired under warranty. And it said it thought the ongoing issues  
with the wheel bearing and suspension werent  present or developing when Mr T got the car. 
In its final response letter,  Motonovo offered Mr T £100 due to the delay in giving him a 
response, but it didnt uphold his complaint.
Further repairs to a wheel bearing and suspension  then took place later in January 2019.
Ref: DRN02949792We began  to look into Mr Ts complaint.  While we were looking into things, Mr T said he 
couldnt wait to get another car and so sold this one. He received £8,180 for the car. He repaid 
the amount outstanding on the finance  on 8 February 2019. This consisted  of £10,046.12 for 
the hire purchase  agreement and £3,749.19 for the personal loan - a total of £13,795.31.
Our investigator issued  their opinion and explained  they didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. They said, in summary, that they thought the issues with the car were due to age 
related wear  and tear rather  than a defect at the point of supply. They  also said the issue  
with the paintwork didnt mean  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr T got it.
Mr T disagreed. He said there was evidence the car had issues with the suspension before 
he got it. He said although the dealer had attempted to repair the suspension,  it still 
continued to rattle and make noise. Mr T said he had concerns with the independent report. 
He said the car losing power was a known fault with the model and this wasnt pointed  out to 
him when  he got it. And, he said the attempts  to rectify the scratches on the paintwork had 
made things  worse and ruined the finish of the car. The case was passed for an 
ombudsmans decision.
While waiting for a decision, Mr T let us know he had also brought  a complaint about  the car 
to another ADR body against the dealer. It issued a decision saying it thought some issues  
meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when supplied. It awarded  Mr T £1,500.14 as a 
price reduction from the dealer.
I sent Mr T and Motonovo a provisional decision on 26 January 2021.  This explained  I was 
thinking of coming  to a different outcome to that reached by our investigator.  Ive included 
my findings  from this decision below:
This complaint is about the quality  of a car supplied under a hire purchase  agreement along 
with a personal loan.  Providing consumer credit  contracts and personal loans are both 
regulated activities   so Im happy we can investigate Mr Ts complaint against Motonovo.
Its important to note here that Ive carefully  considered that another ADR  body  has already 
made a decision  on Mr Ts complaint about  his car. But, it only considered the dealers role 
and responsibilities. I will only look at the finance  providers  role and responsibilities.  So, Im 
satisfied it is still appropriate  for me to consider Mr Ts complaint against Motonovo.  I will 
also take into consideration the award already  made to Mr T when considering  what I think is 
fair and reasonable to put things right.
When considering  Mr Ts complaint, Im going  to focus on what  I think  are the key issues  
with the car. I wont address every  issue with the car in detail, nor go into every repair  or visit 
to the dealer that took place. This isnt because I havent thought  about  these issues  or 
consider them unimportant  this just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want  to 
reassure Mr T and Motonovo  that I have carefully considered all of the information and 
evidence on the case.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. In this case, the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to the complaint. 
This says when Mr T got the car, the supplier   Motonovo  had a responsibility to make  
sure it was of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
expect  taking  into account any relevant factors.
Ref: DRN02949793Relevant factors in this case would include things such as the cars age, price, mileage and 
description. So Ill think about these things when  making my decision. Ive considered that 
the car Mr T got was used   so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to be in 
perfect condition. But, the car cost over £13,000 and had covered under 40,000 miles  so I 
think a reasonable  person would expect  to have trouble free motoring for some time.
So, what  I need to consider in this case is whether the car was of satisfactory  quality or not 
when Mr T got it. There are several  key issues with the car, so Ill consider these in turn.
Mr T says the cars suspension was making  a rattling/creaking noise shortly after he got it. 
He says he complained about this issue to the garage in June 2018. This isnt specifically 
mentioned on the job sheet  from this time,  although  this does mention excess road noise. 
Mr T says the car then went in for suspension  issues in July and August  although I again 
cant see any evidence from this time.  
I can see a job sheet  in September  2018 that says REAR SUSPENSION LOW AND 
CREAKING, there is also a warranty repairs confirmation from the time that says Noise  from 
front suspension  Anti roll bushes  lubricated and Rear suspension  noise  Anti roll bar 
bushes lubricated. At this point the car had covered around 6,800 miles since Mr T got it. 
I can then see from a job sheet in October  2018 CUSTOMER REPORTS NOISE  FROM  
FRONT SUSPENSION  and under  parts lists SHOCK ABS. The Warranty repair 
confirmation also says Replaced rear coil springs and Replaced  front Dampers. Mr T 
says this didnt  fix the issue and he noticed  immediately on the drive home. At this point the 
car had covered around 7,500  miles since Mr T got it.
I have considered what the independent  inspection says about the issues with the car. This 
says We noticed there was a light rattle / chatter  throughout  our road test consistent with 
front anti roll bar drop link issues. It concludes the conditions may be related to previous 
repairs but based on the mileage covered we cannot  confirm  this and it appears more  likely 
to be a more recent issues in the last 1000  miles.
I have considered that the independent  inspection appears to say it thought it was likely the 
issues with the suspension developed after the point of supply. And our investigator agreed 
this was likely the case. Ive had in mind the fact that Mr T had covered  nearly  7,000  miles  in 
the car before work was first done  on the suspension. But, Ive seen  what I think is a key 
piece of evidence  here. Mr T provided a copy of a 102 Point  Check  Sheet which  appears  to 
be an inspection of the car the dealer carried out before Mr T got it. 
This is dated  24 May 2018 and contains  a list of checks, where the large majority have a tick 
box next to them. All of the tick boxes are ticked  aside from three. Two of these are for 
automatic cars only and have been circled.  One box, next to Springs   Shock Absorbers   
Mounting Bushes has been crossed  rather than ticked. 
Ive also considered that Mr T told the business the car was making noises when being driven 
soon after getting  the car and before the attempted  repairs to the suspension. I appreciate 
other repairs were attempted, but I do think its quite possible the suspension was also 
contributing here to the noise the car was making.  And Mr T has been consistent with what  
hes said about the car having suspension  issues prior to attempts at repair  being made.
Ref: DRN02949794So, thinking  about all of this, Im satisfied  the car had a fault present or developing at the 
point of supply  with the suspension, which was ongoing while  Mr T had the car. Im also 
satisfied this means the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. 
In January 2019 I can see from a customer confirmation that the front suspension  drop links 
were checked and replaced.  Its possible  this resolved the issue.  But, I have to consider that 
this repair  was only done after Mr T had complained to Motonovo  and his request to reject 
the car had been denied - and also after the dealer had already had the chance to put things 
right with the suspension on several  occasions.
Ive also thought about the issue with the wheel bearings. I can see a warranty  repair from 
June 2018. This says Replaced noisy front wheel bearings. Mr T says both front wheel 
bearings were replaced.
Mr T also says the AA had to be called out in December 2018 and told him there was an 
issue with the wheel  bearings. But, he says he didnt receive  a job sheet for this as they 
recorded his email address incorrectly.
The independent report said we would conclude the vehicle  displayed  a whirring type noise 
which we would consider is consistent with a wheel bearing defect on nearside  front and 
possibly the nearside rear. And The wheel bearing  issue appears unlikely to have been 
present at hire and often develops in the last 1000  miles of use.
Looking at the evidence from the time,  it appears the repair  in January 2019 following the 
report was to a rear wheel bearing  not the front ones that had been replaced  already. I 
appreciate there does  seem to have been ongoing issues  with the wheel bearings.  But, 
thinking about everything, I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely  these  
issues were due to a fault present or developing at the point  of supply, rather than being due 
to wear and tear.
Ive also considered the paintwork of the car. Mr T has supplied photos of the cars  finish. 
One shows what appear to be scratches  in the paintwork. On others, I can see clear and 
obvious polishing marks and what look like a lot of small scratches on the surface  of the 
paint. Its worth noting that the independent  report doesnt comment  on the paintwork. 
There is some limited  evidence here about  what work was done, but Mr T says the paintwork 
was worked on seven times and still wasnt put right. 
The job sheet from June  2018 says POLISHED SCRATCHES  HAVE  RETURNED  which 
suggests the car was polished prior to this point.  A job sheet from July 2018 says INSPECT 
PAINTWORK. I can see on the warranty repair confirmation from September  2018 
Paintwork  Specialist  polish and a job sheet from October 2018 that says FURTHER  
PAINTWORK. So Im satisfied the paintwork was worked on over multiple occasions when 
Mr T had the car.
Mr T says he noticed issues with the paintwork  when he test drove it and says that the 
garage agreed to fix the issues before Mr T collected it. I cant  see that this is in dispute   
but its worth  adding Im satisfied he was most likely  told this. I say this as Mr T has been  
consistent with what hes said here,  and as Ive set out above I can see several attempts 
were made to get rid of scratches to the paintwork. 
Ref: DRN02949795The fact Im satisfied Mr T was told the scratches  would be removed is particularly important  
here, as I wouldnt necessarily think that scratches would make a used car of unsatisfactory  
quality. But, in this particular case I do think a reasonable person would expect the issues  
with the paint to have  been resolved given this was part of the cars description.
Thinking about  the photos Mr T sent,  and the fact the paintwork was worked  on so often, Im 
satisfied the scratches  werent removed. And, Im also satisfied the attempted repairs  to 
rectify this in fact likely appear  to have made the problem worse.  Considering  all of this, Im 
satisfied the paintwork means the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Ive thought about the issue with the car losing  power. Although the turbo  was replaced in 
October 2018, Mr T has provided some evidence which  suggests  this is a characteristic of 
the engine type in the car, and so this wouldnt be resolved  by the attempted  repairs.  
From what  Ive seen, it appears the engine only loses power under quite limited 
circumstances. So Im not sure if I think this problem meant the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality or not. But, ultimately this wouldnt affect the decision Ive reached  on the case nor 
the redress I think is fair to put things right. So, I havent considered this further.
Finally, I have also considered the other  issues that required fixing  on the car. These 
included repairs to the headlight, oil pump, cambelt,  rear lights  and parking sensors. 
Individually, I might not consider that these  issues would  mean  the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality bearing  in mind  it was used. And, I appreciate  some  of these problems may be due to 
wear and tear. But, thinking about these  issues along  with the other  problems Ive detailed 
above, looking at things in the round  I dont think a reasonable  person  wouldve expected  a 
car of this age and mileage to have so many issues that needed to be repaired.  Im satisfied 
these smaller issues add weight to my conclusion that Mr Ts car was not of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.
I can see Mr T asked  to reject the car when he complained to Motonovo. And thinking  about 
the above, Im satisfied  this wouldve been  fair and reasonable   given attempts at repair 
had already been made. As Mr T has now sold the car, this isnt possible. So, I need to think  
about what is fair and reasonable to put things right here. Ive considered that Mr T sold the 
car for £8,180. He repaid £13,795.31 to Motonovo  leaving him a loss of £5,615.31
I have considered if Mr T acted reasonably when he sold the car. He explained  he did this 
because it was too unreliable, and he needed  to replace it. Given  the number of issues hed 
had with the car, and considering that Motonovo had already said it wouldnt allow him to 
reject it, this doesnt seem unreasonable. 
Ive also considered if Mr T mitigated his losses and got a reasonable price from the dealer 
when he sold it. Ive looked at two valuations  of the car from the time, and Mr T got more 
than the trade  value  of both of these.  So, I dont think in this particular case that Mr T acted 
unreasonably here.
Had Mr T been allowed  to reject the car when he complained to Motonovo,  then he wouldnt 
have owed anything  further on the hire purchase  agreement. But, because of the way the 
finance was arranged, he still wouldve owed money on the personal  loan. 
Ref: DRN02949796Ive considered how the finance was set up. I appreciate Mr T was financing  a higher amount 
than the cost of the car, due to him owing more on his previous finance agreement  than the 
trade in value of his previous car. But £4,148.09 was lent via the personal loan - which  was 
more than the amount left over from Mr Ts previous  finance.  So, it appears Motonovo  
effectively gave Mr T a loan for a deposit  on the car. Looking at the figures here, it appears 
the personal loan consisted of £2,312.90 to cover the balance from the previous finance,  and 
£1,835.19 towards  the deposit.
Ive considered that someone who financed a car via a hire purchase  agreement - without an 
associated loan - wouldnt  generally  have an outstanding balance if the car was later rejected 
for being of unsatisfactory quality. I say this as under these circumstances I would normally  say 
it was fair and reasonable for any deposit  paid by a consumer to be reimbursed. 
In the specific circumstances of this case, I cant see why it would be reasonable that Mr T 
would still owe Motonovo the funds it lent to him for the deposit.  I appreciate  this would leave  
him owing the difference between what his car was worth and what the outstanding balance 
was on his previous  finance. But, Ive also considered any other awards I think should be 
due to Mr T.
If Mr T still had possession of the car, I would say he should be allowed to reject it. I think  its 
quite clear that the car wasnt  performing as it should since  he took possession of it. So, I 
would say that Motonovo should  pay him back a significant percentage of the monthly  
payments he made towards the agreement.  I would say he should get back  any deposit he 
paid towards the agreement. I would also have said Motonovo should  pay 8% simple  interest  
on these amounts from the time of payment  to the time of reimbursement.
I also think its clear  that the issues with the car have  caused Mr T a significant amount of 
distress and inconvenience. Hes had to take the car to the dealer on a lot of occasions.  Hes 
had to arrange the sale of the car and spent time sourcing and acquiring a new one, which 
wouldve taken time and effort. So, I also would say Motonovo  should  pay out for the distress 
and inconvenience  Mr T suffered.  
As I explained above, Mr T had a loss of £5,615.31  from selling the car. Ive considered that 
another ADR  body has already awarded  Mr T £1,500.14 from the dealer. So, this leaves 
Mr T a loss of £4,115.17.
Its difficult to say exactly how much  Mr T wouldve owed on the balance  left over from his 
previous finance  at the point he repaid the loan and balance from the hire purchase 
agreement. I say this as he was making  payments towards this amount  when  he had the car.
But, having  thought about everything, rather than awarding Mr T separate amounts for the 
impaired usage  of the car, the deposit  effectively paid, 8% simple interest on these amounts 
and money for the distress and inconvenience caused, I think  the most fair and reasonable 
thing to do is to pay Mr T the total cost of what  he lost out on by selling the car.
I gave both parties one month to provide any further  comments or evidence  before I made 
my final decision.
Mr T got in touch and said he accepted the decision. Motonovo also responded and made 
some comments for me to consider.
Ref: DRN02949797my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Motonovo said in response  to my provisional  decision. 
It said there was no evidence that the dealer agreed  to restore  the paintwork prior to Mr T 
getting the car. Ive thought about  this. But I still think its most likely it did agree to this, for 
the reasons explained in my provisional decision.  Motonovo also said that the job card that 
stated that scratches  had returned might indicate further damage rather  than the original 
scratches. But, given  it says the scratches returned, Im satisfied this wasnt  the case.
Motonovo mentioned points related to the wheel bearings and issues with power loss. But, 
as I explained  in my provisional decision, I didnt  uphold the complaint based on these 
issues. So, I havent considered this further.
Motonovo also said as the first suspension repair was done under warranty, it thought this 
meant the dealer didnt accept liability. And it said this doesnt  evidence the fault was 
present at the point of supply. Ive explained  why I think the suspension issue was present at 
the point of supply in my provisional  decision,  and having reviewed everything again, Im still 
satisfied this was the case. Under the CRA  it is Motonovos responsibility to ensure the car 
was of satisfactory quality. Whether or not the dealer accepts liability  doesnt change  
anything here.
Ive considered everything else Motonovo said in response to my provisional  decision. And, 
Ive thought again about all of the other information  and evidence on the case. Having done 
so, I still think  this complaint should  be upheld  for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision and set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance to pay Mr T £4,115.17.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0294979