K820x#14complaint
Mrs B, Mrs S and Mr B were trustees  of a bond  held with The Prudential  Assurance 
Company Limited.  Theyre  unhappy with how long their surrender request took, and would 
like compensation  for their losses.
background
Last summer, the trustees  wanted  to surrender their bond and had their IFA forward the 
paperwork onto Prudential  this was received on Thursday 21 June. As the trustees hadnt 
heard anything, their IFA called Prudential the following Tuesday 26 June for an update. 
At this point, they were told that additional  identification documentation  was needed to verify 
Mrs B as, for one reason  or another, an automatic security check  had failed. The IFA sent 
the documentation in the next day  Wednesday  27 June   and Prudential processed  the 
withdrawal that day.
The trustees were not happy. From Thursday to the following  Wednesday, the value of the 
bond had fallen around £4,500. They made a complaint as they felt Prudential had unfairly 
delayed things. But Prudential  didnt  agree  they said they had a five working day 
turnaround time for handling things like this and they had to follow their security policy. 
Remaining unhappy, the trustees asked for our help.  One of our investigators looked  into 
what had happened  but she felt Prudential  has acted reasonably. The trustees disagreed  
they said, in summary:
Prudential ought to have had the documentation they needed  to verify Mrs B given 
that the same paperwork was provided  for another surrender in 2016.
Normal practice  for surrender is to use the unit prices  on the day the instruction to 
sell is received  this would have been Thursday 21 June.
When checks failed, Prudential ought  to have notified the trustees immediately  but 
they only found out when their IFA intervened the following week.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I appreciate  the 
trustees will be disappointed I dont  think Prudential have acted unreasonably.
Prudential told us they received the trustees  paperwork  on Thursday 21 June.  Theres likely 
to have been some processing after that, and perhaps some  routing to the right department. 
But the more substantive  work on the withdrawal began on Tuesday 26 June  four working 
days later.  This doesnt seem unreasonable to me. Prudential say they aim to attend to 
things like this within five working days, so its within their usual timescales. I dont  think  its 
fair to have expected Prudential to review  the paperwork as soon as it arrived   they are a 
large organisation with multiple departments and things take time to get into the system.  I 
think four days is reasonable.
Ref: DRN01443092Having considered the notes pulled from Prudentials  systems, I can see there  was some 
action taken on the morning of Tuesday 26 June  between  6:19 and 6:30am. Prudential  say 
this is when they found Mrs B had failed the security checks  and a letter  was generated 
requesting additional identification documentation.  I appreciate that the IFA also called 
Prudential later that day for an update,  and so it may have seemed as though Prudential 
didnt do anything until they were chased.  But I can assure the trustees that there  was action 
taken that morning by Prudential and there  is a timestamp  of 6:19am on the verification  
check which failed on Mrs B, so I dont think they fell short here or solely  relied on the IFA to 
get things moving   instead, the fact that the IFA called on the same day was a coincidence.
The trustees say the price  they ought  to have received on surrender should be that of the 
day when instructions were received  being  Thursday 21 June. Ive had a look at the 
withdrawal form to see what  Prudentials normal practice is. Under Section 4, amongst other 
things, it says [i]f we receive all the relevant completed paperwork by mid-day  on a working 
day, well normally process it at the price determined later that day; if we receive it after mid-
day, well normally process it at the price determined on the next working day.  It sounds as 
though the trustees did complete all the relevant paperwork  but the problem  here was that 
Prudential couldnt  go ahead and meet the prices  of Thursday 21 June if its security policy 
wasnt adhered  to. The withdrawal form explained  that Prudential  would need to verify  
identity and suggested sending the documents with the form to speed up the process. So I 
think it was fair for Prudential to apply the prices of Wednesday 27 June as thats  when they 
had everything they needed.
Although the withdrawal  may have been  directed back to the source bank account, and a 
previous surrender might have gone  through in 2016, I dont think Prudential  made  a mistake 
in verifying Mrs B again. While they will have  some identification documentation on file for 
Mrs B, they have a security policy to follow and it failed in this instance. Asking for additional 
documentation ensured the application wasnt fraudulent  had Prudential  relied on 
previously submitted paperwork as the trustees suggest, this wouldnt have verified in this 
instance the right people  had given authority to surrender. So I dont  think Prudentials 
request to confirm Mrs Bs identity was unfounded or unnecessary  here.
It is unfortunate that the bond  value fell within the week  the withdrawal was processed,  but I 
dont find Prudential responsible for this as from what I have seen, they acted reasonably. 
The bond  remained  invested and exposed to the underlying assets which  continued to 
fluctuate  just as the value fell, it could  too have risen. So this is just unfortunate timing.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, Mrs S and Mr B to accept or reject my 
decision before  15 September 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0144309