K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that JFV Financial Services Limited (JFV) made  errors  in the course  of 
advising him on the potential transfer  of his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits. 
background
In late 2009, Mr H was referred to Enlightened  Finance  who was an appointed 
representative of JFV. The referral was made by another firm, which  I will refer to as D, and 
which was advising Mr H on his investments. He was referred to JFV because  he was 
considering transferring preserved OPS benefits  he held with a former employer, and JFV 
had pension transfer specialist permissions. 
Mr H was almost  46 years  old and employed. It was recorded that he intended  to retire at 55. 
His attitude to risk was assessed as five on a scale of one to ten. 
JFV obtained a transfer value  analysis  system  (TVAS) report. At age 55, the critical yields 
(the investment returns required to match Mr Hs OPS benefits) were 5.6% for full pension 
and 4.6%  for tax-free cash. At age 65, they were  6.7% and 6.3%.
JFVs suitability report set out the advantages  and disadvantages of occupational pension  
and money purchase  schemes. It recommended against the transfer unless Mr H was 
comfortable that he could achieve  in excess of the critical yields.  
JFV sent the suitability  report to D, enclosing an insistent client  letter  among other 
documents. Mr H subsequently signed  the insistent client letter,  confirming that he 
understood that JFV had advised against the transfer, and that he understood the 
disadvantages of transferring as outlined in the transfer analysis report.
Following the transfer, which comprised of Mr Hs OPS and two smaller  plans  with a total 
transfer value  of £255,253, D recommended  a portfolio, a large  part of which was invested in 
unregulated collective investment schemes. Mr H subsequently complained  to D about this 
advice and received redress.  
Mr H then complained  about  JFVs advice. He felt that the transfer had been unsuitable. JFV 
pointed out that it had advised against  the transfer. It felt that the insistent  client letter 
showed that Mr H had understood the advice. 
Mr H referred  the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  An investigator  
considered the complaint and found  that JFV had made some errors. The investigator said 
that:
JFV shouldve considered the proposed investments.  As the proposed portfolio had 
been unsuitable, it shouldve advised  Mr H accordingly.
JFV shouldve sent the suitability report to Mr H rather than to D. 
The reasons  for recommending  against  the transfer werent clear enough. The report  
hadnt commented on whether the critical yields were achievable,  and had left this for 
Mr H to judge, on advice  from D. 
The insistent client letter shouldnt have been sent with the suitability report. It 
shouldve been left for Mr H to decide  whether he wished to proceed  against the 
advice, and the letter shouldve been provided only once  hed done  so. 
Ref: DRN04284142However, the investigator felt that Mr H would probably have  transferred regardless.  He said:
Although JFV shouldve advised  Mr H that the proposed investments were 
unsuitable, D could  then have recommended suitable investments, so this issue  in 
isolation would not necessarily have prevented the transfer. 
Mr H had indicated that he did have a realistic expectation to retire  at 55. In the 
investigators view, the age 55 critical yields indicated  that there wouldve been a 
reasonable prospect of improving on the scheme  benefits. He pointed out that the 
middle growth rate had been 7%, and that the discount rate used in redress  
calculations had been 6%.
The investigator had noted that the scheme retirement benefits at age 55 were 
markedly affected by an early  retirement  factor of 0.353.  This had been checked with 
the scheme administrator and been  confirmed as correct.
Overall, he felt that JFV couldve advised that returns in excess of the age 55 critical 
yields were achievable from suitable investments. He also felt that Mr H wouldve 
understood the suitability report,  and known that JFV had advised against the 
transfer. He believed that, had the errors not been made, Mr H would still have made 
the same  decision. He also pointed out that the redress paid in the complaint against  
D represented a return in excess of the age 55 critical yields.  
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view. He maintained that the adviser hadnt presented a 
balanced view of his options, that the transfer shouldnt  have  gone  ahead,  and that hed 
suffered a loss as a result. He asked for the complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
JFV provided further comments in response to the investigators opinion.  It said that it was 
unnecessary to consider the proposed investments as the transfer  was not deemed  
appropriate and unlike  now, there  was no requirement to consider the investment to be 
made as part of the transfer process. It was not a regulatory requirement at the time the 
advice was produced,  and it was perfectly possible to undertake pension transfer work 
without having  to provide a recommendation for the investment. The alerts  issued in 2013 
and 2018, were not known at the time and cant be applied retrospectively to a case  written  
prior to the issue of these statements. So it didnt consider the investigators  comments  in 
this regard were fair. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Like the investigator, I consider there were shortcomings in JFVs process and how it treated 
Mr H as an insistent client  that is one who wanted  to act contrary to the advice given. But I 
agree that, even  if JFV had done everything it shouldve done,  Mr H would still have gone 
ahead with the transfer of his pensions to the SIPP and investments through  D. 
Although JFV has made certain comments in response to the investigators view, I dont 
intend to address those in full as its accepted  the adjudicators opinion. Instead, my decision 
focuses on why I dont  think any failings in the advice  and insistent client  process would  
ultimately have made a difference to Mr Hs decision to transfer  his pension. 
Ref: DRN04284143The paperwork from the time of the sale suggests  that the main driver for the transfer was 
Mr Hs objective to retire  at 55. JFV didnt assess what income  Mr H would require if he 
retired at this age and whether this was achievable,  which I think  it shouldve done. But more 
recently Mr H has said that he felt retiring at 55 was a realistic expectation at the time of 
advice. 
Mr Hs was assessed as having a medium attitude to risk, both by JFV and D. So it seems 
he was prepared to take some  degree of risk with his pension. And although JFV advised 
against the transfer because it didnt think the growth required to meet the benefits Mr H had 
under his OPS  could  be met, that wasnt actually the case; at the age of 55 it was likely Mr H 
would be better off in retirement by transferring his OPS benefits to a SIPP.  The reason for 
this being that, although  early retirement was possible under Mr Hs OPS,  the amount hed 
receive at the age of 55 was heavily discounted.  
At the time of advice,  the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount  rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where  a complaint about a past pension  transfer  
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these  rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates  wouldve 
been considered reasonably achievable.  
The investment return  required to match Mr Hs OPS benefits at 55 was recorded as 4.6% 
per year. This was slightly understated as it didnt  include future investment costs or advice  
fees (although  the advice fees were being  covered by D). This was based on the OPS 
having a transfer value  of just over £185,000. But by the time the transfer went  ahead  the 
transfer value  had increased to over £219,000. This wouldve had the effect of reducing the 
critical yield required slightly. 
At the time of advice , the relevant discount  rate was 5.8% per year for 9 years  to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper  projection rate at the time was 9% per year, 
the middle projection rate was 7% per year, and the lower projection rate was 5% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets  in the discount  rate, Mr H's 
medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mr H was likely to receive 
benefits of a materially higher overall  value  than he wouldve done from his OPS  at the age 
of 55, as a result of investing in line with his attitude  to risk. 
I think its also worth mentioning that the critical yield required if Mr H retired  at the age of 65, 
was 6.3%.  And the discount rate being  quoted at the time when someone  was 19 years way 
from retirement was 6.5%.  So taking  the regulators projection rates mentioned  above  into 
account, although not as likely, there was still a possibility  that Mr H would be better off at 65 
by transferring his OPS.  
JFV didnt explain the position correctly with regards to the growth  required in its suitability 
report, which I think it shouldve done.  Instead  it left it open to Mr H to decide if he felt the 
critical yields could be met. It also failed to consider where D was going to invest  Mr Hs 
funds. Had it taken  the investments into consideration  it couldve let Mr H and D know that 
the intended investments were too high risk for Mr H. This may have  resulted  in Mr H being 
placed in suitable investments from the start and couldve prevented  him from having to 
complain to D further down the line that the investments it had recommended  didnt match 
his risk profile. However,  like the investigator, I dont think these failings wouldve impacted 
Mr Hs decision  making.
Ref: DRN04284144I have to consider  what I think  Mr H would have done if JFV had done everything it should  
have. Given that Mr H was in discussions with D about his investments and pensions its not 
clear to what extent he was relying  on the advice from JFV. Mr H had been  in contact with D 
discussing his options for a number of months both overseas and in the UK. Overall,  I think  
its likely  he wouldve placed greater reliance on advice provided by D rather  than JFV. 
I also think Mr H ought to have known it was JFV that advised him about transferring his 
pension, rather than D. He signed  the front page of the suitability letter which  explained that 
JFV had been  asked by D to review  whether he should consider transferring his OPS 
benefits in to an alternative  arrangement.  The letter also said that a business card and terms 
and condition were  attached. And the footer  on the letter provided JFVs details. In addition, 
Mr H signed an insistent  client letter that said JFV hadnt recommended the transfer. 
Mr H went ahead with the transfer based  on a suitability report  which  made no comment  on 
whether the critical  yields could be met. So if JFV had correctly  stated that the returns were 
likely to be achieved, I think its very likely  that Mr H wouldve made  the same decision.   
I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy  that his pension  fund is now subject to market conditions  
and additional  charges  that wouldnt have applied, had he remained in his OPS.  But I think 
these factors were  known  to him at the time of advice and he opted to go ahead  with the 
transfer. 
Final decision
For the reasons  explained, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0428414