K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs B re-mortgaged  their home  with RBS in 2009. They bought  a PPI policy at the 
same time which covered  both of them.
Mr and Mrs B say the PPI was included in various  meetings around the re-mortgage and it 
was made  to appear part of the deal.  They  say they had existing cover and didnt need the 
PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
RBS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B they had a choice about PPI and it had to get 
their agreement to it. Ive looked  at Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application  form. This isnt 
signed but says they want  PPI for Mr B and it sets out the monthly  benefit  theyve asked  for. 
Theres an option in the application form for Mr and Mrs B to say either they dont require 
cover or they have  existing cover  but neither of these options has been marked.                
Mr and Mrs B also signed an RBS document called giving your agreement  that says,  
among other things,  they want to apply  for PPI with their mortgage.  Ive looked at                
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer, which they signed  to accept. This says the only insurance 
thats a condition of their mortgage is buildings insurance. And it seems shortly after 
completing the paperwork Mr and Mrs B contacted RBS to add Mrs B to the cover  and 
increase the monthly benefit.
Ive seen nothing  in the paperwork Ive got to suggest the PPI was presented to                   
Mr and Mrs B as part of the deal.  And Mr and Mrs B havent given me any evidence  to 
support their view that it was. From the paperwork I have seen, and for the reasons Ive 
given, I think its likely  at the time Mr and Mrs B agreed to the PPI knowing they had a choice 
about it.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons  why I should uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint but I dont  think there are. Mr and Mrs B say RBS advised them  to buy the PPI. 
RBS says it didnt. I havent seen anything  to suggest RBS gave Mr and Mrs B a tailored 
recommendation to buy PPI based  on an assessment of their particular needs and 
circumstances. So I dont  think this was an advised  sale, which  means RBS didnt need  to 
check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN00228402But RBS did need  to give Mr and Mrs B enough  clear information about  the PPI for them  to 
be able to make that decision themselves in an informed way. From the information Ive got I 
dont know what steps RBS took to do this, and its possible some things werent made as 
clear to them as they shouldve  been. But, even if everything had been as clear  as it 
shouldve been,  I think Mr and Mrs B would still have gone  ahead with the cover. I say this 
because, from what  they say of their circumstances at the time and the policy  details Ive 
got:
Mr and Mrs B were  eligible  for the PPI. And they werent affected by any of the things 
the policy didnt  cover, like known health issues or unusual employment terms. So 
there was nothing to stop them claiming the full policy benefit  if theyd needed  to.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to them, especially bearing in mind  a mortgage is 
a significant and long-term financial  commitment  and your home is at risk if you fall 
behind on your repayments. Although Mr and Mrs B say they got some  sick pay and 
had some savings, the PPI wouldve  paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for 
each successful accident, sickness or unemployment  claim they made. This wouldve 
been paid in addition to their sick pay, and wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on 
their savings,  which they mightve needed for other things, to make their mortgage 
repayments.
Mr and Mrs B had another PPI policy which theyd got for an earlier mortgage and 
which it seems  continued  after that mortgage had been redeemed.  So they say they 
didnt need another PPI policy. But, because I dont think RBS recommended the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs B, it didnt have a duty to check what other cover they had in place. 
This was something Mr and Mrs B needed to think  about themselves in deciding  
whether they wanted the cover RBS was offering. It may be they didnt realise the old 
policy would carry on  but I cant say this meant the RBS policy was mis-sold.
Although I dont know how clearly RBS explained the cost of the PPI to                     
Mr and Mrs B, I think theyd have known they were  paying  something for it and 
theres nothing to suggest it was unaffordable.
Ive considered all the points  Mr and Mrs B have made but they dont change my 
conclusions. I dont  think theyve lost out because  of anything RBS may have  done  wrong  so 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0022840