K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that PDL Finance  Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  gave her a loan that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss C took a single  loan from Mr Lender  in March 2015. She borrowed £500  and agreed  to 
repay it in six instalments  of varying size. Her highest instalment was the following month 
and was for just over £263. After making  the first two scheduled repayments Miss C told 
Mr Lender that she was in financial difficulties and as a result  Mr Lender  rescheduled her 
repayments. Miss C repaid her borrowing in January 2016.
Miss Cs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the 
checks Mr Lender  had done before lending to Miss C had been sufficient. And he thought 
that the checks indicated that Miss C could afford to repay the loan. So he didnt think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Miss C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loan was offered.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether 
Miss C could afford to pay back the loan before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss C was borrowing, and her lending history, 
but there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Mr Lender has told us about the checks  it did before lending  to Miss C. Before agreeing  the 
loan it asked her for details of her income,  and her normal monthly expenditure. And it 
checked Miss Cs credit  record with a credit reference agency.  Mr Lender has provided us 
with a summary of the results of that check, and they dont show anything  that I think should 
have caused additional concerns to the lender.
Miss C says that her credit report would have been poor at the time, and so Mr Lender 
should have seen that she was struggling financially. But generally,  the information  a 
consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to 
that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some  data 
might be missing or anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date. So, this may explain 
any differences between the information  provided  by Mr Lenders credit check and what 
Miss C says should have  been seen from her credit  report.
Ref: DRN01327452The repayments that Miss C needed to make on the loan appeared to be easily  affordable 
based on what shed  told Mr Lender  about her income and expenditure. This was the first 
(and only) loan that Mr Lender gave to her. Given all this, I think it was reasonable for 
Mr Lender to base its affordability  assessment on the information that Miss C provided.  
I think its checks were  proportionate, and they suggested that the loan was affordable  for 
Miss C.
I appreciate that Miss C says her disposable  income  was much less than she declared to 
Mr Lender at the time. And that her finances were under significant pressure. But this wasnt  
something she told Mr Lender when she applied for the loan. And I dont think  its something 
that Mr Lender should have discovered from what I consider to be proportionate  checks.  So 
I dont think Mr Lender did anything  wrong by agreeing to give this loan to Miss C.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
PDL Finance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0132745