K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr D payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Mr Ds comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Mr D has said he was pressurised into taking PPI. However it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude this happened unless there was some type of supporting evidence. As I wasnt 
there, I cant  say whether  what  the adviser  said was unfair  or unreasonable.  Without 
stronger evidence, it wouldnt  be fair for me to say that Bank of Scotland  acted wrongly in 
that way. And it looks otherwise as though the PPI was presented  as an option.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Its likely Mr D was 
eligible for the policy. And finding  yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr D 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And Mr D has said he didnt 
have other means to fall back on, such as savings. So this all would have put Mr D in a 
more secure position, if hed eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI 
when he took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a 
recommendation was suitable. 
 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr D took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr D would have been  affected by any of these. And hed be 
paying for it monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without further  cost if his situation 
changed.
Ref: DRN00981032my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0098103