K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited did not make him aware that his new,  
extended whole of life policy was reviewable  i.e. that it could increase the amount he needed 
to pay to retain the sum assured..
background
Mr B originally had a fixed term assurance  policy with the option  to convert this into a whole 
of life policy after 25 years. He chose to do this in 2011.
An adjudicator at this service  noted  that Mr B had taken out this new  policy without advice, 
saying this meant that Avivas sole responsibility was to ensure the reviewability issue  was 
spelt out in the documentation. He was satisfied it was.
Mr B did not agree  and said he first became aware  of this issue after a review in 2018. If he 
had known that the premiums could be increased, and every year, he would  not have 
chosen to convert  his old policy.  He insisted that the key document  and schedule   while 
referring to reviews  did not state that the premium could be increased, let alone every 
year. He asked to see a transcript of the phone call he had with an Aviva representative 
when enquiring about the new policy.
Aviva said it did not have a copy of the call but reiterated that Mr B had only spoken to an 
administrative officer who could not have  offered any advice so it was his responsibility to 
ensure he fully understood the product  before  buying it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons. 
From the documentation  Ive seen  it looks as if the review mechanism is explained including 
the meaning of the various types  of cover. Mr B chose the maximum cover option, where 
the risk of premium rises is spelt out. I accept Aviva has not been able to provide a copy  of 
the actual policy document  sent to Mr B but I see no reason to doubt that the 2011  mirrored 
the 2006 version it supplied. I am therefore  satisfied that it did provide the required  
explanation of how a reviewable  plan, including on a maximum cover basis, operates.
Further, Aviva  did not offer Mr B advice so was not obliged to draw his intention  to this issue  
in any non-advised phone call. I therefore do not believe there are sufficient grounds to 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN04838582my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0483858