K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited  is asking him to pay a debt 
that he disputes and which he says is unenforceable.  Hes being  helped with his complaint 
by a representative.
background
Cabot says that Mr W had a credit card debt of £1,084.58 that was assigned to it in August 
2017 and its seeking repayment  of that debt.  Mr Ws representative complained  to Cabot in 
June 2018 and said that it hadnt  provided a copy of the credit agreement so the debt was 
unenforceable and that Mr W disputed the outstanding balance. 
Cabot said that it was satisfied that it had dealt with Mr Ws debt in accordance  with the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  but it agreed  that it had contacted him incorrectly and apologised 
for that. Mr W wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Cabot 
had provided account  statements showing the debt that was transferred to it and he couldnt 
say that it had acted  unfairly when it asked Mr W to repay the debt.
Mr Ws representative  on his behalf  - has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has responded in detail and says, in summary, that:
Mr W disputes the alleged debt sought by Cabot and doesnt accept that the sum 
outstanding was £1,263.97 when the credit  agreement is said to have been assigned 
but considers  that the payments he has made should now have been sufficient to 
settle the alleged debt in full;
Cabot hasnt provided a copy of the credit agreement; and
Cabot has directed phone calls and letters to Mr W which isnt acceptable in light of 
the correspondence that it has sent to Cabot.
Cabot says that this complaint is one that this service cant  consider as its in regard to 
whether the debt is enforceable,  which only a court can determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve  complaints by customers 
about financial businesses by looking at what we consider  to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Although we do take account  of applicable  law and regulations  we also 
consider the overall situation. So it is possible that a court would reach a different outcome 
to the decision  that we make on a complaint. It would be for a court to determine  whether or 
not the agreement was enforceable so I havent considered  that in any detail. But I am able 
to consider whether or not Cabot has acted  fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr W. 
Cabot has provided  statements  from the credit card company for Mr Ws credit card account 
for the period from April 2015 to April 2017. They show that Mr W was making  monthly 
repayments of £28.03  (which then increased  to £28.43 and then £28.48)  to the account and 
that the outstanding balance of the account  in April 2017 was £1,263.97. It has provided 
Ref: DRN05861342evidence to show that Mr Ws debt of £1,084.58 was assigned to it and that a notice of 
assignment was sent to Mr W in August 2017.
Mr W disputes the outstanding amount and says that the payments that hes made  should 
have been enough to settle the debt.  But I consider  that Cabot has provided  enough  
evidence to show that Mr Ws debt of £1,084.58 was assigned to it and remains outstanding.
Cabot doesnt  dispute that it hasnt been  able to provide a copy of Mr Ws credit agreement  
with the credit card company  and that would  affect  the action that it could take to enforce 
the debt. It says that requesting repayment  of Mr Ws account doesnt  amount to 
enforcement action. Even though it doesnt have a copy of the signed credit  agreement,  I 
consider that its fair and reasonable for Cabot to seek repayment of the debt from Mr W (to 
the extent that its legally entitled to do so).
Cabot accepts that it contacted Mr W incorrectly. Its apologised for that and Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr W has been caused  significant  
distress or inconvenience by those phone calls and letters. So I dont consider  that any 
compensation is justified in these circumstances.
Other than that, Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to show  that Cabot has 
acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr W. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for 
me to require it to take any action in response  to his complaint.  But its required to respond  
to any financial difficulties  that Mr W is experiencing positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0586134