K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about ICF financial  Services Limiteds advice to transfer his occupational  
pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  into a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). 
Mr P considers that the advice  was unsuitable.
background
Mr P was an active member of his workplace  OPS, which he had been  in for 37 years.  
In late 2016, Mr P sought advice from ICF about his pension. 
During their initial meeting, ICF conducted a fact find with Mr P to ask information  about his 
circumstances. This was recorded  in a financial planning questionnaire which confirmed that;
Mr P was 56 years old and had a current partner.
He had an adult  son who was 28 and his partner  also had an adult daughter.
He wasnt in good health.
He was employed by the provider of his OPS and had been for 40 years.  
He had a salary of £41,285 and £1,000 in savings.
He had recently paid off his mortgage on his £160,000 home. 
Mr Ps OPS  would  provide an estimated annual pension  of around £20,000 and a 
tax-free lump sum of around £60,000.
ICF also completed an investment selection  tool which  was designed to assess  Mr Ps 
attitude to investment risk. This recorded that Mr Ps knowledge of business, markets and 
investment was low. And he had only taken a small risk in respect of his past financial 
decisions. Mr P rated himself as being a conservative investor, only prepared to take a low 
level of risk.
The following  day ICF created a financial planning report. The report recorded Mr Ps 
objectives for his pension  and ICFs recommendation. In conclusion  ICF said; 
I have recommended that you transfer  your existing  pension benefits to an 
alternative arrangement  for the following  reasons:
 On transfer of this pension to my proposed recommendation  you will receive  a 
death benefit of £760,463.01 which is greater than that available under the scheme.
 Based on your personal circumstances you have no need  for an automatic spouse's 
pension.
 You will be able to access your pension at a time when it suits you and you will be 
able to take varying amounts in the most tax efficient manner.
 You can take a larger tax free lump sum from your pension which you can use to 
purchase a buy to let property, a new car and to carry out home  improvements  to 
your residential property.
Following ICFs recommendation  to transfer his pension,  Mr P came  out of his OPS  to allow  
him to transfer it. ICF completed  a second financial planning report  in March 2017. In it, ICF 
made recommendations about which SIPP provider Mr P should transfer his pension  to, 
along with the specific funds that his pension should  be invested into. 
Mr P completed the transfer of his deferred  OPS benefits into the recommended SIPP on 
ICFs recommendations. 
Ref: DRN09879772Mr P complained to ICF via a professional representative in December 2018. In his 
complaint Mr P said he wasnt given sufficient  information about  the ongoing costs  of his 
new pension. He also said he should have remained a member  of his OPS as he continued 
to work for the firm. 
In Response, ICF said theyd been upfront  about  the fees  Mr P faced  by transferring his 
pension and they couldnt find anything  wrong with their advice. ICF said it was clear  that 
staying in the scheme had been discussed during the meetings, but that wouldnt  have  met 
Mr Ps objectives. So, ICF didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with ICFs response and so brought  his complaint to our service. ICF set 
out, in detail, why they felt their advice  was suitable  in several  submissions to our service. 
They also highlighted that their meetings with Mr P had been video recorded  and supplied 
the footage.
I sent ICF and Mr P my provisional  findings  on 15 March 2021. I explained that I didnt think  
ICF had followed their regulatory  requirements  and I didnt think their advice to transfer 
Mr Ps OPS benefits was suitable. I gave ICF and Mr P an opportunity to provide me any 
further comments or submissions for me to consider. 
the responses to my provisional findings
Mr P accepted my provisional findings. 
ICF provided further comments  for me to consider. In summary  they said;
The OPS could not achieve Mr Ps objective of providing benefit  to his son and it 
couldnt guarantee a benefit for his partner either. These were both Mr Ps 
objectives. 
 ICF think that a transfer can be suitable  for someone whos  in ill health. And Mr Ps 
ailments meant his life expectancy  was shorter than average. They also said the 
transfer value  analysis (TVAS) report makes no allowance  for health.  
So, the case has been passed back to me to reach  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What were ICFs responsibilities?
The industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), issued guidance for transfers  
in circumstances  like this one in the Conduct of business sourcebook  (COBS) found  in the 
FCA handbook.  It said;
When advising a retail  client  who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme  or other  scheme with safeguarded 
benefits  whether  to transfer, convert  or opt-out, a firm should  start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion  or opt-out  will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer, conversion  or opt-out  to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
Ref: DRN09879773contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, conversion  or opt-out is in the client's  best 
interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
COBS went on to say that ICF had to consider Mr Ps attitude to risk, where relevant, 
in relation to the rate of investment growth  that would have to be achieved to replicate  the 
benefits given  up. ICF also had to clearly inform  Mr P of the benefits he was giving up. 
And show;
The extent to which benefits may fall short of replicating those in the OPS.
The uncertainty of the level of benefit that can be obtained from the purchase of a 
future annuity and the prior investment  risk to which  Mr P would be exposed to until 
the annuity was purchased. 
The potential lack of availability of annuity  types to replicate  the benefits  given  up. 
(COBS 19.1.7)  
COBS also gave guidance that ICFs  suitability report should include a summary of the 
advantages and disadvantages  of its recommendation  as well as an analysis of the financial 
implications. When doing so, ICF couldnt regard a rate of return that could replicate the 
OPS benefits being  given  up as sufficient in itself. 
Did ICF follow the regulatory requirements?
I dont think ICF followed the requirements placed  on it by the FCA. Ill explain why. 
ICF first recommended  that Mr P transfer  his OPS  benefits in a financial planning report 
dated 29 November  2016. 
I think its important to first look at this report in isolation. As, on its recommendation, Mr P 
left his OPS scheme  to enable him to transfer it to a different type of pension plan. So, it was 
really important that Mr P knew  the extent to which  the benefits may fall short of replicating 
those in the OPS,  to be able to make an informed  decision.
One way in which this could be done was to provide customers with the critical  yield 
(the average annual  returns  his new pension would need to achieve in order  to match the 
benefits of his OPS). The critical  yield was usually found within  a TVAS report. However,  ICF 
didnt include a TVAS  in the first report,  or an indication of the critical yield required. The 
TVAS wasnt produced until much later, in June 2017. ICF says thats  because  they were  
unable to produce an accurate TVAS whilst Mr P was still an active member  of the OPS. 
Despite this, ICFs first report  under the title Pension Transfer Recommendations still said, 
Further  information concerning the recommended  transfer can be found in the Appendix of 
this report and the Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. 
The report  also went on to say;
I am recommending the above for the following  reasons:
Critical Yield
The investment risk of transfers of this nature is measured by calculating a 'critical 
yield'. This is a measurement of the investment growth level required over the period 
to retirement to provide benefits equivalent  to those being given up.
Ref: DRN09879774But as Ive said, the TVAS report and critical yield figures  werent included  in Mr Ps financial 
planning report in November 2016. And, whilst ICFs report appears to record  the critical 
yield as a reason  to recommend the transfer,  we will later see that the critical yield would 
show Mr P was likely  to be financially  worse  off in retirement. 
The financial  planning  report also went on to say; A comparison of benefits from your 
current scheme versus the proposed scheme  is set out below. It then set out the tax-free 
lump sum and annual  pension that Mr P could  receive under his OPS. The report  then said;  
Income Requirements In Retirement -The accompanying illustration provides an indication  
of the income  you could  receive from the recommended pension  plan. 
I asked ICF to provide  me with the accompanying illustration that would have allowed Mr P 
to compare the financial benefits  of both schemes in order to make  an informed decision.  
But ICF said There are no illustrations in relation to the first report. This report was to look at 
[Mr P] coming out of the scheme as this needs to be done first before we can obtain the 
information to be able to do a TVAS,  no transfer was obviously made at this time. 
But ICF gave a recommendation to Mr P in the report  to transfer  his pension. And as Ive 
said, it was a regulatory requirement to show Mr P the extent to which the benefits of the 
new scheme could  replicated  his OPS. 
ICF failed to give Mr P any comparison or financial analysis to allow him to make an 
informed choice on whether to transfer  his pension. And in doing  so it didnt follow  its 
regulatory requirements. But that doesnt necessarily mean the advice it gave to transfer was 
unsuitable. And ICF went on to say, No illustrations at this time would have had any affect 
on the advice  on the initial report. So, Ive considered whether ICFs advice to transfer was 
suitable, despite their errors. 
Was ICFs advice  suitable?
There can be several reasons why transferring  OPS  benefits can be beneficial.  So, Ive 
explored Mr Ps needs and objectives  for his pension. And then considered whether 
transferring his OPS  benefits achieved them. 
I think its important to point out here that whilst Mr Ps objectives may have been the reason 
why he sought  advice, his needs  should have also influenced the advice being given. I say 
that because someones objectives arent  always realistic or in their best interests. And the 
overarching principles governing ICF said that it needed to work in its clients  best interests. 
The OPS  was Mr Ps sole pension, he had modest savings and no other source of income in 
retirement (other than his state pension in the future). So, first and foremost,  ICF needed to 
establish what Mr Ps income  requirements  were in retirement. 
At the time of the advice Mr P was on an income of over £40,000.  In his initial meeting, when 
asked if he spends  all his salary, Mr P said there was usually has a bit left at the end of 
each month. But Mr Ps savings were  modest which suggests that he used most of his 
income to fund his lifestyle. Mr P had also mentioned his partner didnt work and had no 
pension provisions. So, Mr Ps income  in retirement  may have also needed to support both 
himself and his partner.
Ref: DRN09879775In their fact find ICF didnt  ask Mr P for his monthly  expenditure  or other financial 
commitments, that section  of the questionnaire  was left blank. But I think it would be very 
difficult to assess a clients  needs  in retirement  without  having first assessed their current 
expenditure and what  that was likely to be in the future.  The questionnaire allowed for these 
questions to be asked  but ICF failed to record any of Mr Ps monthly expenditure or any 
other financial commitments or liabilities he had. So, I dont think  they did enough  to 
understand what level of income Mr P would need in retirement. 
ICFs second recommendation came in its pension  transfer report  from March  2017, after 
Mr P had already  come out of his OPS. That report focused on which  specific  funds Mr P 
was recommended to transfer into. It still didnt  assess Mr Ps likely income requirements 
and how the pension would provide them. 
It also doesnt appear that Mr P was sent the TVAS  report or was made  aware of the critical 
yield - recorded as 13.92%. The critical yield figure was merely the figure to provide  the 
same benefits Mr P was giving up though.  So, it had to appear likely that Mr Ps fund could 
grow by more than just 13.92% a year for him to improve  on the financial benefits being  
giving up. 
The advice was given  during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst  businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when  giving  advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been  considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.  
The investment return  (critical yield) required to match  the occupational pension  at 
retirement was quoted  as 13.92% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 2.8%  
per year for 3 years to retirement  in this case.
ICF assessed Mr Ps attitude to risk and capacity for loss. They  deemed him to be a cautious 
investor with a low capacity for loss. And Id agree with that assessment. But that meant  
Mr P was highly unlikely to see returns over 13.92%. And by transferring his benefits, Mr P 
also faced fees and charges for his SIPP and the ongoing advice ICF would provide. 
This was an additional expense  that he wouldnt have paid in the OPS  and was likely to 
further erode  the returns on his investments. So, I think it was highly unlikely Mr P would 
achieve the critical yield and improve on the financial benefits he was giving up.
ICF argue that the critical yield holds  less relevance  for someone as close  to retirement as 
Mr P was, especially as they say it wasnt his intention to merely  replicate or improve  on the 
financial benefit of his pension. So, ICF produced two prudential retirement modellers to 
show the likely impact  on Mr Ps funds from his drawdown of income. 
The first modeller showed how long the fund would last if Mr P took the same tax-free cash  
and level of income as the OPS. But the modeller was still hard to compare  against  the OPS,  
as it didnt take into account any of the other benefits being  given  up, like the spouses 
pension or death  in service benefit. This modeller also used a projected fund of £814,419, 
which was over £25,000 more than the final valuation of the OPS. It showed  the fund should  
last until Mr P was 100 years old. 
But ICF knew  it wasnt  Mr Ps intention to just match the tax-free  cash  and income  of his 
OPS. So, ICF say the second modeller showed how the funds would perform  with Mr Ps 
Ref: DRN09879776intentions - to take a larger  tax-free lump sum. But ICF didnt know what  Mr Ps likely income  
would need to be. And this modeller  didnt directly compare the income of the OPS as it 
used the state  pension  to top up Mr Ps income  to the same level. Even  with this reduced 
(compared to the OPS benefits) income,  the funds were likely to only last Mr P until he was 
aged 86. The TVAS report also suggested  Mr Ps funds would run out at age 85. 
Ultimately, I dont think either of the models ICF produced would have  allowed Mr P to 
assess his options  objectively. And as ICF hadnt  assessed Mr Ps required income  in 
retirement, I think  its unlikely they were  ever going to be able produce a model which  would 
have showed  Mr P how long his funds  would last. Furthermore, both of the illustrations  
werent provided to Mr P until after ICF had already recommended  him to come out of his 
OPS and transfer.  
The OPS  benefits  Mr P was giving  up were  guaranteed for as long as Mr P lived and 
guaranteed to increase  in line with CPI and RPI. They would also provide a pension to an 
eligible spouse  if they outlived  Mr P. So, I think its clear  that Mr P was unlikely to be 
financially better off by transferring his OPS benefits. 
ICF say Mr P had several other  objectives,  one of which  was to use the larger tax-free lump 
sum to make  several purchases. They said Mr P wanted to spend £120,000 on purchasing a 
property, £25,000  on a new car and £30,000 on home improvements. 
Regarding the property,  ICF said in its submissions that it wasnt their role to substantiate 
Mr Ps plans  to by a property or to see actual property  particulars.  They say Mr P was 
motivated to purchase  a buy to let property  as an investment which is why it was one of his 
objectives.
But in the initial meeting,  what Mr P actually said was he thinking about buying  a property to 
either rent or as a holiday let. 
Whilst ICF maintains its role wasnt to advise on the specifics  of a property investment, it still 
needed to factor this into the advice  it gave. I say that because  theres  a large  difference  
between a buy to let property and a holiday rental.  And ICF never explored Mr Ps intentions  
further. 
A holiday let in this country could have incurred  regular  utilities,  tax and insurance  bills which  
would have been an added expenditure that Mr P would need  to plan for in retirement. 
A holiday let in this or another country  may have  increased the investment risk for Mr P 
outside of his cautious attitude to risk. Equally,  a buy to let could have secured Mr P an 
additional income (albeit with some risks attached) which would also affect his pension  
planning. But ICF didnt spend  any time gathering further information  or analysing the impact 
of this objective on Mr Ps pension  planning.  
I think it was also clear  from the very brief conversation they had, Mr P had thought  about  
what he could have  used  the tax-free cash for but had not made any firm plans to invest  in 
property. And as the investment would  have formed a significant  part of Mr Ps retirement 
planning, I think it would have been  reasonable for ICF to explore this with him further.  
It was likely Mr P would need a new car, as he had a company car at that time. But hed only 
need that after he left employment  with his company, which  he didnt  plan to do at the time. 
And Mr P says his home improvements werent essential. Mr Ps OPS allowed for a tax-free 
Ref: DRN09879777lump sum of approximately £60,000. So, remaining in the OPS still could have achieved 
Mr Ps objectives to purchase  a new car and complete his home improvements. 
As Ive said,  it was ICFs role to consider all of Mr Ps objectives,  analyse how realistic  they 
were, and how they could be achieved. I dont  think ICF did that. I also dont think  any of 
these objectives  outweighed the need  for Mr Ps pension to provide him an income in 
retirement. 
ICF have placed a lot of weight on the fact that they considered Mr P to be in very ill health 
and so providing death benefits was a key objective.  
When talking about Mr Ps OPS benefits in its initial meeting, ICF said If you die it goes with 
you, if you die now it goes  with you. But that was misleading. Mr Ps OPS had valuable 
death benefits. It allowed for a lump sum of £180,000 to be paid if Mr P had died whilst  still in 
the scheme. And provided  five years of guaranteed payments if Mr P passed away within the 
first five years of retirement. 
Mr Ps OPS would also provide a spouses  pension  of two thirds  of Mr Ps pension. ICF said 
it couldnt be certain that Mr Ps partner would receive the spouses  pension. But Mr P had 
already said himself it was likely he would marry  his partner sooner or later.  And the OPS 
scheme allowed  for the spouses pension to be paid outside of marriage  at the discretion of 
the trustees. Mr P told ICF in their first meeting that his partner didnt work and didnt have 
her own pension. So, I think  its likely a spouses income would have been a valuable  benefit 
to keep. 
Mr P also said he would like to pass some  of his funds on to his son in the event of his 
death. The OPS  wouldnt allow  for Mr Ps son to benefit from his pension  in the event of his 
death if he was in receipt of his pension. And by transferring Mr Ps OPS,  its clear the 
immediate death  benefits were greater  as the whole value  of the fund could  have been  
passed to any nominated  beneficiary. So, the question  I must consider is, were the 
substantial death  benefits enough  for Mr P to transfer the benefits of his OPS?  
I can see that Mr P suffered from several  illnesses  at the time. But whilst Mr P commented 
that his health was poor, I havent  seen any medical evidence to suggest it was likely his life 
expectancy at that time was significantly reduced. ICF says our investigators  arguments  
relating to Mr Ps ill health were too speculative and uniformed. But I think that too can be 
said for ICF. In its latest submission ICF maintained  that Mr P wasnt  in the best of shapes 
but it isnt enough for ICF to make an assumption  based on a visual inspection of Mr P. 
ICF have now said an easy way to obtain a medical opinion would be for Mr P to complete a 
health questionnaire. But it was a requirement for ICF to base their recommendation on 
contemporary evidence  at the time the advice was given. And I dont think ICF relied  on any 
professional medical  evidence  to say Mr Ps illnesses were  life-limiting  in any way.   
Mr P was receiving treatment and medication for his medical  conditions.  He wasnt asked if 
any medical professional  had ever indicated to him that his life expectancy  was anything 
lower than normal. He was still working and planned to continue  in doing so. In a meeting 
with ICF several months  after transferring his pension, Mr P said he planned to start a new 
business as a chimney sweep. So, not only did Mr P seem to think his health  was good 
enough to start a new business, but there  was likely to be a physical element to his work.  
Due to Mr P wanting to start the business,  he felt that he would need  to start to draw an 
income from his pension. In that meeting ICF explained that the office  of national statistics  
Ref: DRN09879778showed a male of Mr Ps age had an average  life expectancy of 86. So, they needed to plan 
to ensure Mr Ps funds  would last him until at least that age. ICF also produced a record  
from the ONS to show a male of Mr Ps age, in poor health, had a 50% chance of living 
beyond 86, and a 75% chance  of living  beyond  79. ICF say it was clear Mr Ps life 
expectancy was shorter than average. But ICF had inputted Mr Ps health as poor in the 
longevity calculator,  so I think its likely  that was taken into account when it gave its 
estimated life expectancy. 
  
In the suitability report, ICF only illustrated the capital value of the death benefits on day one 
of the transfer.  It didnt  give a clear comparison of the likely death benefits  over the course of 
Mr Ps life. I say this because it didnt  take into account any tax-free cash Mr P was likely to 
take and didnt demonstrate how the death  benefit would reduce over time by Mr Ps 
drawdown of income. ICF illustrations showed that Mr Ps fund would potentially last until he 
reached 86, so if Mr P reached  or exceeded  the average life expectancy  (for someone  in 
poor health), there was likely to be no funds left as a death  benefit for his family.  
So, whilst it wasnt guaranteed his partner would  receive benefits  outside of marriage in the 
OPS, by transferring  his pension there  were  still no guarantees of what the benefit would be 
available to his partner either.  The OPS  benefits were also underplayed by ICF, as had Mr P 
remained in his OPS  he would have been  entitled to a death in service  benefit of over 
£180,000. And, if Mr Ps partner was to outlive  him, she could potentially be entitled to a 
spouses pension  for the rest of her life.   
ICF placed  a lot of weight on Mr Ps objective  of providing for his family in the event of his 
death. And the increased death benefits  by transferring his OPS.  And ICF continue  to argue 
that Mr Ps objective of providing his son with benefits in his death could only be achieved by 
transferring his benefits. But ICF didnt explore with Mr P the reasons behind this objective. 
Mr Ps son wasnt  financially dependent on him. So, it doesnt appear this objective was born 
out of a necessity  for benefits to be passed on. And it was ICFs role to demonstrate on 
contemporary evidence  that the objective  to provide  his son with benefits after his death  was 
in Mr Ps best interests.  And I dont  think it did.
The main  purpose of the pension wasnt to provide death benefits. Mr P still needed to 
drawdown an income from it for many years to come. I dont think ICF have provided  
sufficient evidence to show that it was in Mr Ps best interest to transfer his pension  based 
on an objective of providing death benefits  for his son. There  may have been  other  options  
available to Mr P to provide for his family  in the event of his death, for example through a life 
assurance policy. But this was never explained  or explored by ICF. 
Overall, I dont  think the initially better death benefits of transferring outweighed the overall  
benefits and guarantees he was losing by transferring  his OPS. Or that it particularly met any 
of his other objectives  over and above what he already had with his OPS. ICFs advice 
should have focused on Mr Ps needs in retirement. It was their role to assess and advise 
whether Mr Ps objectives were realistic and whether they could  be fulfilled by remaining in 
the OPS. But I dont think they did. 
Mr P had paid into his OPS for 37 years. But the maximum time you could be a member of 
the scheme was 40 years.  So, Mr P still had 3 years in which he could continue  to pay into 
the scheme and increase his benefits. In the initial meeting ICF touched  upon this subject. It 
said you could stay in there for three years and do this exercise then. ICF went  on to say 
Mr P would have paid more money  into in his scheme then and the transfer value may not 
be higher. ICF also said but you could have  popped your clogs.  
Ref: DRN09879779I think that logic is flawed,  as equally the transfer  value could have increase in those three  
years. And in ICFs  submissions they point out the fact that if they thought Mr P was likely to 
pass away within two years of the transfer there  may be inheritance tax due, which would 
need to be considered. So, I dont  think its fair for ICF to infer during the meeting that Mr P 
might pass  away  within  such a short time and yet not take that into account  during its 
recommendation.
As Ive said,  there was no medical  evidence that Mr P had a short  life expectancy. 
Therefore, Mr P could  have also had three  more  years of valuable benefits  added  to his OPS 
before deciding whether transferring his benefits  was in his best interest.
For all of the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think ICF gave Mr P suitable  advice to transfer 
his OPS. I think, had ICF explained all of this to Mr P, he would have decided  to stay in his 
OPS. I therefore hold ICF responsible for any losses Mr P incurred as a result of their 
unsatisfactory advice.  
putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. ICF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the regulators  pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct  
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance  of the decision.
ICF must contact  the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ps 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges, further 
contributions he would make and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date 
ICF receives notification of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
Ref: DRN098797710final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes ICF to 
pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
determination and money award : I require ICF to pay Mr P the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require ICF to 
pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require ICF to pay Mr P 
any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend  that 
ICF pays  Mr P the balance.  I additionally recommend any interest  calculated  as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts  my decision,  the money award is binding on ICF. My recommendation is not 
binding on ICF. Further, its unlikely  that Mr P can accept my decision and go to court  to ask 
for the balance. Mr P may want to consider  getting  independent legal advice before deciding  
whether to accept  this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct ICF Financial Services  Limited to 
compensate Mr P as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0987977