K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
alongside a mortgage by Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS).
background
Mr H took out a mortgage through YBS and at the same time he took out a PPI policy  to 
protect his repayments.  He complained  that the PPI had been mis-sold and YBS upheld 
Mr Hs complaint. It said the policy had certain exclusions for self-employed  people that 
should have been made clear to its customers,  but it hadnt  been made clear enough to 
Mr H. As Mr H was self-employed, this would have been important to him. So YBS thought 
he wouldnt  have bought the PPI if hed been  given  all the information he needed.
But despite  the exclusions, YBS said Mr H had made several claims on his policy  totalling 
£7,734.62 and it wanted to take this off any compensation that was due for the mis-sale.  
After doing this, it said Mr H wasnt actually owed any compensation. Mr H didnt  think this 
was fair.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought what YBS had done to settle  
the complaint  was fair. And as it had upheld  Mr Hs complaint  that PPI was mis-sold, it didnt 
need to do anything further.  But Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed  to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As YBS has upheld  Mr Hs complaint, Im not going to look at how he came  to be sold PPI. 
But I do need to consider  whether its offer is fair. 
Having done,  so I think the offer is fair and Ill explain  why.
the amount YBS has offered
If I thought a business had mis-sold  PPI to someone,  Id expect the business  to put them,  so 
far as possible, in the position theyd be in if they hadnt been sold PPI. With a PPI policy  set 
up in the same way as Mr Hs was, a business  needs to work out what  a consumer had been 
charged in PPI premiums.  And it needs to add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year 
(15% before  April 1993) to every premium paid to compensate them  for the time they were 
out of pocket.
YBS has worked out what Mr H paid in PPI premiums (£1,897.92).  And it worked out simple 
interest on those premiums, from when Mr H paid them  to when it worked  out its offer 
(£3,248.90). This came to £5,146.82,  which is less than Mr H was paid in claims under the 
policy.
Ive looked at how YBS has worked  out these amounts. The amount that Mr H claimed was 
more than he paid in PPI premiums,  so once the insurance paid out, Mr H wasnt out of 
pocket anymore. Normally Id tell YBS to work  out the 8% simple interest for the periods 
Mr H was out of pocket. But YBS has worked  out 8% simple  interest  to February  2018,  
Ref: DRN03677292which is a simplified  calculation in Mr Hs favour, so Im not going to tell it to update the 
interest its offered.
If I think about where Mr H would be now if he hadnt taken out PPI, he wouldnt have paid 
any premiums,  but he wouldnt have got any benefits paid when he made a claim. As the 
amount he got for the claim was more than the amount paid for the PPI, he would have been 
worse off without PPI than he is now. So I think YBS  offer is fair. 
does YBS need  to pay back to Mr H any of the commission it got from his PPI premiums?
When YBS sold Mr H PPI, it got some  commission that was paid out of the PPI premiums  
Mr H paid. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  issued some  new rules that businesses  
had to follow when  looking  at PPI complaints in August 2017. But I dont think  these new 
rules mean YBS needs to pay back any commission.
The new rules told businesses what to do if they didnt think  the policy  was mis-sold   
sometimes a business has to pay back to a consumer some of the commission that had 
been taken on PPI policies. But in this case, YBS has said it thought  the PPI was mis-sold 
and has offered to put Mr H in the position  hed be in if he hadnt had PPI and paid anything  
in commission. This means YBS doesnt  need to look at how much commission it received.  
Even though  YBS has said these rules  dont apply, it has offered to give back  some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Yorkshire Building 
Society. It is now up to him to decide whether he wishes to accept its offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0367729