K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about problems hes experienced updating his address  with TSB Bank plc 
and with messages  he received saying his balance was low. He wants  £400  compensation 
as he says this matter has gone on for close to year and its taken  him time to sort out. 
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said TSB has already accepted 
and explained  that it was an error on its part that Mr B couldnt update his address sooner  
and that low balance  messages were  generated as a result  of a system  error. Its offered to 
pay Mr B a total of £150 compensation for this - £50 for his phone calls and fuel driving  to a 
branch and £100 compensation. He feels that is fair. Mr B says he wants £400 
compensation but that is more than we would typically  award  for circumstances such as this.
Mr B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB accepts it couldve dealt with Mr B better  at times. Its offered him a total of £150 for his 
expenses and as compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr B says this 
isnt enough.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a complaint  and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend theyre  
compensated for this. 
In this case Mr B would like £400  compensation. But I think  that would be too much. Taking 
everything into account, including the levels of award we make, I think  a total of £150 
compensation is fair for the trouble and inconvenience caused  to Mr B and his costs of going 
into the branch  and for phone calls.  And although  I understand Mr Bs frustration at whats  
happened I dont  think on balance that I can reasonably  require TSB to pay him £400, or any 
more than £150, as hed like. 
  
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Bs strength of feeling I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.  I simply leave it to Mr B to decide if he now 
wants to accept TSBs offer of a total of £150  compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0243068