K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains that St Andrews Insurance plc has treated her unfairly by charging  her too 
much for her buildings and contents  insurance  over a number of years and not explaining  
why her policy was so expensive.
background 
Mrs K insured her building and contents with St Andrews from 2003 until 2017. When the 
policy was first taken out Mrs K paid £811.48 per annum. The premium increased and 
decreased during the lifetime of the policy with Mrs K paying £2523.35 per annum for the 
policy in 2011.  In 2017 the final renewal price  offered was £951.85.  Mrs K made two claims 
on the policy, one in 2007 and second  in 2011. The 2007 claim reduced the buildings  no 
claims discount (NCD) to 0% from 30% and the 2011 claim reduced the contents NCD from 
30% to 0%.
In 2014 Mrs K called  St Andrews to discuss the cost of her home insurance, at this point the 
premium being charged for the year was £2582.63. She asked St Andrews why the cost of 
the policy was so high as she had discussed her insurance with neighbours who said they 
were all paying much less. 
St Andrews  couldnt  explain  why the policy was so expensive overall but could see the 
buildings part of the insurance  was the more expensive part of the insurance. St Andrews 
representative went through Mrs Ks policy and offered to take off several additional bits of 
cover she had on the policy. They also amended the policy  to show that only one person  
was living  in the house now. These amendments reduced the overall cost of the premium to 
£2245.01.
During this call the St Andrews representative spoke  about Mrs Ks policy  being  an unlimited 
one which  meant she didnt need to worry about  understanding how much  cover shed need 
for things  like the rebuild  cost of her house. The representative did say there was another 
policy available that they sold which allowed the customer to choose a limit they felt they 
needed but she couldnt give Mrs K a quote  for this policy  as Mrs K wasnt aware what her 
rebuild costs might be.
In 2015 Mrs Ks policy dropped in price to £685.87  for the year. She called  St Andrews to 
ask why the policy had dropped in price  so much and whether what  she was paying  before 
was fair  as the cost had dropped so significantly  she felt there must have been error.  
St Andrews  said the amendments shes  made  to the policy in 2014, reducing the cover  and 
a change to its flood modelling  system meant the cost had reduced.  But this didnt indicate  
there was an error in what it had charged for the policy in the previous years.
Mrs K, not happy with the explanation given by St Andrews, brought  her complaint this 
service.  
St Andrews  made an offer to settle Mrs Ks complaint. It said it felt the price  it charged in 
2008 represented a fair price for the insurance. This reflected  the cost of Mrs Ks policy,  
allowing for the recoup of new customer discount  applied when the policy  was first taken out. 
And the price charged was in line with how it perceived and priced the risk of her property. It 
said it would  refund with simple interest added, Mrs K the difference  in what shed paid for 
any years  where shed paid more  than the 2008  premium. This totalled a refund of £584.63 
before interest  is added. It also offered a further £200.00 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this complaint.
Ref: DRN06879282Our investigator looked into Mrs Ks complaint and questioned whether St Andrews had 
made an error with how it previously rated  Mrs Ks house and the risks to it. With such a 
difference in price from 2014 to 2015 she wanted to be sure the offer made by St Andrews  
was fair. 
St Andrews  demonstrated  that although  there was a significant change in price from 2014 to 
2015, it hadnt made an error. It had changed  the way it was able to assess  flood risk which  
meant it was able to be more specific to the location of the property and as a result,  it didnt 
think the risk of flood  to Mrs Ks property was as severe as it had previously thought. But the 
previous view to risk was done in line with its ability to assess  risk at the time and was 
consistent with how it treated  all its other customers. So the investigator didnt think it had 
done anything  wrong with how it had treated Mrs K and she felt the offer it had made to 
settle her complaint was fair. 
Mrs K said she wasnt happy with this. She said shes asked St Andrews a number of times 
during the lifetime of the policy to explain why the cost was so high. She said this was first 
time she was made aware that her property was viewed as a high risk of flooding and she 
didnt agree it was, as in 29 years of being  at the property  shes never experienced any 
flooding. She felt St Andrews had deprived  her of seeking government help for reducing her 
premiums when living in is such a high-risk zone. Overall, she didnt agree with the reasons 
given or believe  the explanation was fair. Because Mrs K disagreed,  the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the offer made by 
St Andrews  to resolve this complaint is fair and I wont be asking it to do any more. I know  
Mrs Ks been waiting for an answer  for a long time on her complaint and this isnt the one 
shes been hoping  for, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs Ks complaint is about the cost of her insurance and that she doesnt  believe St Andrews 
treated her fairly with how it has priced  this over the lifetime of her policy. Its important to 
clarify that my role isnt to look at what a fair or right price is for Mrs Ks insurance or 
insurance premiums in general. To do so is outside  the remit of my role. But I can consider 
how St Andrews treated  Mrs K with regards  to her insurance and whether it was treating her 
fairly when  it priced this.
St Andrews  said it thinks something  went wrong  when it charged  Mrs K more  for her 
insurance than the cost of the policy in 2008.  It explained the 2008 premium  allowed for the 
recoup of the new customer discount  it offered when the policy was taken out in 2003 and 
priced the risk of her property in line with its approach to that risk and the cost for this at the 
time. So when  the price  increased beyond this it wasnt treating Mrs K fairly as it couldnt 
demonstrate why the further increases were applied. 
Mrs K said she or her late husband  would have questioned the price  of their renewal each 
year and they hadnt been given any information at any point as a justification for the price 
increases. Ive been provided with the account  history for Mrs Ks policy  and can see that 
although the two claims  in 2007  and 2011  were discussed, there is no record of any other 
conversation until 2014.  There was a call in 2013  but St Andrews has said this call was 
Ref: DRN06879283made to request a copy of the renewal documents only and there was no discussion about  
price in this call.
Ive listened to the 2014 call and its clear from this Mrs K was unhappy with the price of her 
policy and she believed  what she was paying was too much. She asked the call handler why 
her policy was so expensive and they discussed reducing the cover by amending  the policy  
and taking off a number of additions  as well as making sure all the details were up to date. 
The adviser also let Mrs K know that St Andrews offer another  policy which  unlike the one 
she was on, allowed the customer to limit their total cover, specific to what they felt their 
needs were.  She said this might make the cost of the cover cheaper  and she asked whether 
Mrs K knew  what  the rebuild cost of her property was to inform this limit. Mrs K didnt know 
and the adviser  said she couldnt tell Mrs K what this would be but she gave her the details 
of a website which would  help to give a likely  indication of this cost.
There was no explanation in the phone call in 2014 about the flood risk of the policy  affecting 
the price.  But this is information  which  wouldnt be readily available to the representative  in 
the call centre. They  have access to what the policy covers and excess limits and I dont 
think its reasonable to expect at this point for them to give full breakdown of the underwriting 
criteria of the policy and what might be a driving factor within  this for the price.  
I think it was clear the adviser  Mrs K spoke with explained  what she could  about  the policy 
and that there was potentially another one available which  might  be suitable.  And she gave 
the details about a third-party website which could assist Mrs K in understanding  what her 
needs might  be if she wanted to set her own limit for the policy cover.  Schemes like Flood 
Re werent yet in place  so I dont think when Lloyds didnt explain that the flood risk element 
was a driving a factor  in the cost of the policy that Mrs K was disadvantaged and it explored 
all options available  to her at the time.
Its understandable  why Mrs K was shocked  at the reduction in the cost with her policy in 
2015 compared with what she paid in 2014.  There was a difference of over £1500 for the 
same cover as the year before. At this point Mrs K questioned whether what  shed been 
paying before was right. St Andrews explained in its final response letter dated 24 August 
2015, the reduction was because of the policy amendments made during the 2014 phone 
call and because of a reassessment of the flood risk model for the property. 
Ive looked at what St Andrews has provided  to explain  how it assessed  the risk for Mrs Ks 
property in the years up until 2014  and the subsequent years  when the price  of her 
insurance dropped  substantially. This shows how its approach to flood risk has developed 
overtime and its been able to not only separate different potential flood risks but also be 
more detailed with the location of the risk property as its model has moved  from postcode 
rating to address point rating.
I know Mrs K doesnt agree her property is or ever has been, at a high risk of flooding and 
she feels St Andrews failed to explain this to her in the past.  But Ive not seen anything 
beyond the call in 2014 which demonstrated she was questioning the cost of the insurance  
and why this was so high.  St Andrews was insuring the property and with this was able to 
price the policy  in line with what it felt the risks associated with it represented. And providing 
these costs are justified and in line with its approach, this would  be fair.
Ref: DRN06879284As I said earlier,  my role isnt to determine  the right price  for insurance and each insurer  
who accepts to take on a risk can charge  what they feel is needed  to take on that level of 
risk. But what  I can do is make sure this is being applied  fairly and consistently with 
individual customers. 
St Andrews  accepted it charged Mrs K more than it could have for her policy for some of the 
years between 2008 and 2014. And its not been able to justify why some of these  years  
were charged more than the 2008 premium.  But its agreed to refund the difference  paid by 
Mrs K for these  years  with simple interest  added. This is together  with a payment of £200.00 
for the distress and inconvenience of the complaint.
I think St Andrews offer represents  a fair outcome for this complaint and is in line with what  
this service would  have likely recommended  had St Andrews not made the offer. Because of 
this I wont be asking  it to do anything else on this complaint.. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrews Insurance Plcs  offer to refund some of the costs 
of Mrs Ks home  insurance policy from 2008 is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should also calculate the additional compensation (set at 8% 
simple interest per year)  owed to Mrs K for being  out of pocket of that money.
St Andrews  Insurance Plcs additional  compensation offer of £200  for the trouble caused to
Mrs K is also fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0687928