K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that London General  Insurance  Company Limited hasnt  settled his 
extended warranty claim for a damaged tablet in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
background
In December 2017 Mr A bought a new tablet  from a national  retailer. He also purchased an 
extended warranty which covered him for accidental  damage to the tablet. Approximately six 
weeks later the screen was cracked  and Mr A claimed under the warranty. London General 
accepted the claim and, in line with the policy  terms, endeavoured  to repair  the damage. 
When it couldnt do so it provided Mr A with a replacement. The replacement  was the same 
make and model but was a refurbished device  from the manufacturer rather than a new one. 
Mr A complained to London General. He said he understood hed be provided  with a new 
replacement of the same make and model. He said the terms and conditions  made  no 
mention about  any replacement  being  a refurbished product.  He said the FAQs cited in the 
policy document stated  thered be a new for old replacement if the product cant be repaired.  
He also said the website stated the same. He said at no time when the policy  was sold was 
he told that a refurbished product would be offered in the event of a claim. 
London General  investigated Mr As complaint and concluded itd complied  with the policy  
terms and conditions. It referred to the Limitations section of the policy  where it said:  
Your policy will end when you receive  a replacement product  unless  the product is a 
refurbished product in which case cover  will continue to run. 
Mr A disagreed. He said the term quoted was from the section of the policy  related to the 
termination of cover and that no mention was made  of refurbished products in the section 
related to how claims were settled.  He repeated that he understood from the FAQs and the 
website that the cover  was for new for old replacement. 
Unhappy with London Generals decision, Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator 
looked into Mr As complaint and recommended that it was upheld.  She said it was unclear 
from the documentation that a refurbished item could be offered as settlement of a claim.  
She noted that the FAQs and the website said the cover  was new for old. She 
recommended that London General provide  Mr A with a new replacement  tablet. 
Mr A accepted our investigators findings  but London General didnt. It said different 
technology brands  had different processes and the manufacturer of Mr As device had a 
refurbishment scheme. It said the word replacement didnt mean new.  It quoted from a 
recent view it had received from this service which found in its favour  in similar 
circumstances. Our investigator  looked  at what London General had said but wasnt 
persuaded to change  her mind. London General  responded  to say Mr A had been provided 
with a like for like replacement. It said the policy terms  didnt state a new device would be 
provided and it said the website  and terms and conditions had since  been updated to reflect 
a refurbished item could  be used as a replacement. London General asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN04233322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say:
Cover Explanation
Your product is covered  
against:
1. Accidental Damage
Accidental damage is 
considered to be damage 
resulting for an unforeseen 
and sudden incident, which 
is accidental in natureIf your product suffers accidental damage, we will repair  your 
product where  possible. 
If you product is uneconomical to repair, we will provide you 
with a replacement  of the same make and model.  Where the 
same make and model is not available, the replacement  will 
be of a similar specification. 
Where a replacement is not available, we will contact you to 
discuss alternative settlement
They also say: your policy will end when  you receive a replacement  product, unless the 
replacement is a refurbished product,  in which case cover will continue to run. This is the 
only place in the terms and conditions where  theres mention of a replacement being  a 
refurbished product. 
The policy terms were sent to Mr A in a covering letter that also included his policy  schedule.  
The letter said:
The terms and conditions  detail exactly what is and isnt covered by yourinsurance 
alongside important  additional services information. 
For more information  about [your insurance]  and answers to common questions  about how 
your cover works please  visit [the FAQs on the website].
The FAQs say that the plan is an accidental  damage  one for small appliances. Under the 
heading Benefits it says there is New for old replacement product [cover] if we cannot 
repair your item. In addition it is not in dispute that the website at the time also mentioned 
the cover  provided  was new for old. I understand that Mr A was told the same by staff in the 
store. 
I have to weigh all the evidence up and reach a fair and reasonable decision. On balance, I 
think, it was reasonable for Mr A to think that hed receive a new tablet when his old one was 
accidentally damaged. And I dont think London General have treated him fairly by providing 
him with a refurbished one. 
I say this because  under the cover section  Ive included above it doesnt say that the 
replacement could be a refurbished device. I accept that it also doesnt state that the 
replacement will be a new device. Not in the policy terms anyway. But it does state in the 
FAQ and (at the time) elsewhere on the website  that the cover provided by the policy was 
new for old. I cant reasonably ignore this evidence.  Consequently it was reasonable for   
Mr A to assume   from the information provided  to him and the fact the policy  itself was 
silent about the precise nature the replacement would take  that he would receive  a new 
device. 
Ref: DRN04233323What other  brands  do or do not do is irrelevant. The policy, the FAQs and the website make 
no distinction between  the different brands covered by the policy.  So Im not persuaded by 
anything London  General  has said in this respect.  If it wanted to distinguish  between 
different brands then it shouldve drafted the policy  terms to reflect that. But Mr A couldnt be 
expected to know from the information  he had that his brand was one that offered a 
refurbishment scheme and other brands didnt. In any event, this isnt a reason used by 
London General  to dismiss Mr As complaint. Its said the policy terms provide that the 
replacement can be a refurbished product.  And as Ive said, I disagree. 
London General  says the plan is a repair  plan and the swapping  of the damaged  device for a 
refurbished one constitutes a repair. But this is counter  to what it has said previously: that it 
has been unable  to repair the device  so has replaced it (with a refurbished  one).  The only 
mention anywhere  of a refurbished device is in the limitations section of the policy Ive 
quoted above. There it appears  in a section relating  to the circumstances in which  cover  will 
be terminated. And this has to be weighed against its omission in the cover section above 
and the fact the FAQs and the website  stated the cover was new for old (both  of which, 
interestingly, have now been amended). 
London General  has referenced a previous opinion it received from one of our investigators  
in which  a similar complaint wasnt upheld. But that opinion wasnt an ombudsmans 
decision. The facts  were also slightly different in that the tablet concerned was two years old. 
In fact its stated in the opinion, if it was a brand new item then I think it wouldve been 
appropriate to discuss possible  alternatives. Mr As tablet was as good  as new.  I think  this 
case is distinguishable from that case on its facts. And whilst this service strives  to be 
consistent in its decision  making its worth  stating that the case quoted  by London  General 
may well have reached a different outcome if it had gone for an ombudsmans  decision.  
On balance, I dont  think that London  General  has treated  Mr A fairly in providing him with a 
refurbished product. He was led to believe hed bought new for old cover.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require London General Insurance 
Company Limited  to provide Mr A with a new replacement tablet. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0423332