K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr M says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold the late  
Mr M a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Sadly Mr M has since passed away. Im sorry to learn of this news.  The late Mr Ms estate  
have brought  this complaint. In my decision Ill refer to Mr M, but also the late Mr M in 
other parts.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. The estate of Mr M disagreed with the  
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  the late Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the estate of Mr Ms complaint because:
I think FICL made Mr M aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms store card application form. Although  
the estate of Mr M complained that the policy was sold during a phone  call, it seems 
that this sale took place  in store. 
The application form had an option to add PPI and Mr M has signed  separately in this 
section to agree to add PPI to his account. Had Mr M not wanted this cover  he could 
have left this section blank. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it still had to give Mr M good enough information so that he could decide if 
he wanted to take the PPI.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr M didnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
Ref: DRN01699042things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. 
Although no supporting evidence has been provided of Mr Ms sick pay entitlement, 
this PPI policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement.  So I cant  
fairly say that he wouldnt have found it useful if he ever needed  to claim. 
So, on balance, I dont  think better information wouldve stopped Mr M buying it. 
Having considered all of the evidence,  I havent  found evidence that this PPI policy  was 
mis-sold to the late Mr M. 
Ive noted that there are references  to periods of unemployment in Mr Ms complaint. 
The estate  of Mr M still have the option of speaking to FICL about  the possibility of making  a 
back dated claim if Mr M had the PPI policy in place at the time of the unemployment.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the estate of Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 20 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0169904