K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about the way NewDay Ltd (trading  as Aqua)  handled a dispute he raised 
about a payment to a software provider.
background 
In June 2017 Mr K was interested in some computer  software  so he entered into a free trial. 
He decided he didnt  want it but about  a month  later the software provider  charged  £79.99  to 
his Aqua credit card account.  He disputed this payment with Aqua in October 2017. Over  the 
following months Mr K didnt get a response from Aqua so he complained.  In July 2018 Aqua 
responded to say it couldnt help Mr K with his dispute because hed raised it too late.
Mr K didnt think this was fair so he complained to our service.  In response to our request for 
information Aqua reconsidered the complaint and agreed to refund  the £79.99 and, following 
a discussion with our investigator, pay Mr K £50 compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience hed been caused.  Our investigator thought this was a fair resolution to the 
complaint. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said Aqua not refunding the disputed payment when it should have 
caused his account to default which has affected his credit  file and caused him distress. He 
also felt he should  be compensated for the time hed spent trying to resolve  the matter.  
Overall, he thought more  compensation was fair in the circumstances. The complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Aqua has made a 
fair offer. Ill explain why. 
Mr K entered into a free trial with a software  provider. Ive looked at the software providers 
website. It says After your 1-month free trial, [name of software] is £79.99 per year. Credit 
card required. Cancel anytime. So I think when someone signs up for the free trial they 
enter their credit card details and if they dont cancel by the end of the trial period payment is 
taken, and they can continue to use the software  for a year before a further payment is 
taken.
The software provider  took a payment from Mr Ks Aqua account. So I think he provided his 
Aqua credit card details  when he entered into the trial. Mr K hasnt said he cancelled the 
trial. So I think its most likely the software provider took payment at the end of the trial 
period  as it said it would.
In these circumstances I think Mr K agreed  for the payment to be taken,  meaning  I dont  
think Aqua  needed to refund it. Nor do I think a chargeback  a mechanism for resolving 
disputes between  a card holder and a merchant  would have been successful given I think  
the software provider did what  it said it would. And I dont think Mr K had a valid claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  either, because, amongst other  reasons,  the 
price of the software  was too low for it to apply. Overall, I dont think  Aqua needed  to refund 
the £79.99. It follows that I dont think any issues Mr K has had maintaining his account are a 
result of how this dispute was handled by Aqua.  
Ref: DRN02584422But, Aquas  customer  service around  the dispute  could  have  been  better. I say this because  
when Mr K returned Aquas dispute  form it didnt  take any action for several months, and 
despite some contact from Mr K, it didnt give him a response until July 2018,  about nine 
months after hed first contacted it about the payment. And the response itself wasnt very 
clear or accurate. I think compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  the 
poor service caused Mr K is appropriate. Taking  everything into account  I consider £129.99  
(the £79.99 refund, which Mr K wasnt entitled  to, plus £50 compensation) to be a fair 
amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua)  should refund to Mr K the £79.99  paid 
to the software  provider,  and pay him £50 compensation, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258442