K820x#14Complaint
Ms L complains that Revolut Ltd restricted her account  and asked her to provide information 
about payments  into the account.
Background
Ms L has an account with Revolut. On 9 April 2019, Revolut blocked it until 20 May 2019. 
This meant she wasnt able to use her account  during  that time. And it asked Ms L to provide 
information about payments that had been  made into her account. Once Revolut had 
completed its review it allowed Ms L to access her account again.  
Ms L has explained that the block to her account  caused her a great deal of stress  and 
inconvenience as she was organising a wedding celebration. And shed needed access to 
the money which had been paid into her account to pay suppliers and for the cost of the 
venue, which was overseas.  
Revolut said it hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed Ms Ls account and had acted 
in line with its regulatory requirements. Ms L disagreed. She said the information  Revolut 
asked her to provide was unreasonable. So she brought her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ls complaint. He said Revolut  hadnt  done anything 
wrong when it had reviewed Ms Ls account. Ms L disagreed. And she asked for an 
ombudsman to review  her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear from what Ms L has told us and the bank that she feels very strongly about her 
complaint. I appreciate shes upset that Revolut  blocked her account.  And that this has 
caused her inconvenience and was no doubt stressful  especially as Ms L was trying to 
organise a wedding celebration overseas. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be 
satisfied that the bank  has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think  it has. Ill 
explain why. 
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of an 
existing business  relationship. That sometimes means banks  need  to restrict customers  
accounts and ask for information about payments  into an account.  Revolut  has said that Ms Ls 
access to her account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
The timing  of Revoluts  actions was unfortunate. Ms L was trying to organise a party for a 
wedding overseas involving a large  number of people, which understandably was very 
important to her. She needed  to be able to use the money which had been paid into her 
account to fund the event. So, I can understand why she found this experience  with Revolut 
stressful and upsetting.
But as Ive already explained businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various  laws 
and regulations. Having looked  at whats happened in this case,  Im satisfied that the bank 
was complying with its obligations  when it blocked  Ms Ls account. And it asked her for more 
information about the payments into her account.  The terms and conditions of Ms Ls 
Ref: DRN01581452account also permit  Revolut to block an account.  Having  considered  those terms, Im 
satisfied Revolut acted  in line with them. So, I cant say Revolut has treated Ms L unfairly  
when it blocked  her account.
I can see that Ms L first contacted Revolut  on 17 May 2019  about the block to her account. 
And that she provided the bank with information  about payments into her account, which  
was intended  to cover the cost of the venues  shed  booked  for the party  shed organised. 
She explained to Revolut  that the payments  into her account were  made  by the people shed 
invited, and that they had all contributed towards  the cost of the planned celebration.  Revolut 
reviewed the information  Ms L provided  and removed the block  from her account on 20 May 
2019.
I know Ms L feels  the information Revolut asked her to provide was unreasonable.  But the 
bank was within its rights to ask Ms L for more information about the money which  had been 
paid into her account if it felt it needed further clarification. And it had to make certain checks  
to comply with its regulatory  obligations. So I cant say it treated Ms L unfairly  when it asked 
her to provide this information.
I appreciate of course that Revoluts actions  caused  Ms L stress and inconvenience. So, I 
realise Ms L will be disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an 
award of compensation for that, since I dont believe Revolut acted inappropriately when it 
blocked Ms Ls account and asked her for information.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0158145