K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (all references to Mr I include his 
representative). 
background
Mr I holds a private medical  policy with AXA. They  turned  down a prospective claim due to 
alcohol intake. Mr I complained about  this, and subsequently that he shouldnt have been  
sold the policy and should have a refund  of premiums. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but found against Mr I. He has disputed  this 
so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Is complaint either.  Ill explain why. 
The first element of the dispute concerns the rejection of Mr Is potential claim. Whilst I note 
the suggestion that his medical  problems are separate from his alcohol issues I dont agree. 
The medical notes  I have seen very clearly connect  the two issues, and as the alcohol 
exclusion is clear in the policy I wont be asking AXA to meet  any claim in this regard. 
The second  issue  concerns whether Mr I should  have been  sold the policy.  Here  it is 
suggested that Mr I told the sales person that he drank and smoked and the sales person 
should have questioned this and highlighted the alcohol  exclusion.  Again I dont agree with 
that. 
The policy would have covered issues unconnected to alcohol and could have been useful to 
Mr I. I dont agree it shouldnt have been made  available to him. He was also free to read the 
policy when he got it and if he felt the alcohol exclusion was likely to impact him too much  he 
could have stopped paying  the premium at any point.  I dont  think  it was the sales persons 
job to stop him from having that choice.  
my final decision
I dont agree that the policy was mis-sold or that the exclusion doesnt apply to the claim 
suggested. I make no award  against  AXA PPP Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0029328