K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused to offer her a reduced  settlement 
figure now that she wants to close her credit card account. She says that the bank should 
reduce the amount that she owes, because it wrongly applied charges and fees to her 
account.
background
Ms Hs credit  card account  incurred charges, over a number of years,  because  the credit  
limit set for it was exceeded, and payments made towards the balance owed on it were  late 
or missed. 
In late 2018 Ms H contacted Barclays and said that she wanted to close her account. There  
was still an outstanding balance due on the account at the time, but Ms H told the bank that 
it had wrongly applied charges to it, and asked  it to consider a reduced settlement figure for 
her re-pay.
Barclays told Ms H that, whilst she could ask it to close her account at any time, its charges 
had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of her account, and shed be required 
to repay  the outstanding balance on it. The bank also said that it would stop applying interest 
to that balance until January 2019,  to give Ms H some time to think  about  what she wanted 
to do.
Ms H disagreed with the banks position  and approached our service. She explained that 
Barclays had promised  her it would provide a reduced settlement in a voicemail it had left for 
her, but said it had then gone on to refuse  to do so. She said that the bank was making  her 
credit situation worse, and felt that it was doing  so for its own financial gain.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He felt that Barclays had applied  
the charges in line with the terms and conditions of Ms Hs account  and explained:
the bank was entitled to decide whether or not to offer a reduced settlement 
he couldnt see that the bank  had told Ms H it would do that 
the bank had already refunded a number of the charges that the account had 
incurred
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld,  but Ms H disagreed. She 
reiterated her original concerns which were, Barclays had promised her a reduced  
settlement figure, she should not have  incurred charges, and the banks decision was 
making her situation worse.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Banks are entitled to apply charges to their customers accounts for a number of different 
reasons. As I set out above, Ms Hs account  incurred  charges because the credit limit set for 
Ref: DRN04305512it was exceeded,  and payments were either made  late or missed. The terms and conditions  
of Ms Hs account say:
If you go over your credit limit, youll have to pay an over credit limit fee.
And:
If you miss your minimum payment well add a late payment fee to your account. 
In my opinion, the available evidence  shows that Barclays applied the charges to Ms Hs 
account in line with those terms and conditions.  I appreciate that Ms H says that the bank 
was wrong to have  applied  the charges that it did but, as the account holder, she was 
responsible for managing the account  in line with its terms and conditions. Unfortunately,  
because there were times when that did not happen,  her account incurred charges reflecting 
that.
Ms H has told us that Barclays promised her it would  offer a reduced  settlement, but as our 
investigator explained, the evidence  does not reflect that. I recognise that Ms Hs disagrees 
with Barclays decision, but the bank isnt required to reduce what she still owes  it. Barclays 
have said that it expects its customers to repay the full balance of what they owe once an 
account is closed   and the terms and conditions of Ms Hs account echo that. I appreciate 
that Ms H feels this is unfair, but in my opinion, the bank has not acted unreasonably in 
telling her that shell need to repay  what she owes. 
Before approaching this service,  Barclays had chosen to refund some of the charges it had 
applied to Ms Hs account. It had also taken the decision to temporarily stop charging 
interest on the outstanding balance. The bank has said that if Ms H does  decide  to close her 
account, itll do everything it can to support her in paying off the outstanding balance  in order  
to make her credit situation easier.  That would, in my opinion, be the right thing for it to do 
and Id encourage Ms H to talk to Barclays if she feels  that she is experiencing any financial 
difficulty. 
I realise that my decision is likely to come  as a disappointment to Ms H, but for the reasons 
set out above  I am of the opinion that Barclays has acted reasonably.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0430551