K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS),  trading as Chelsea Building  Society,  mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 2005 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for accident, sickness,  hospitalisation and unemployment 
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  £427.00 a month  towards 
Mr Hs mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £21.30  a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a HGV driver. He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay and had around £1,500 in savings to use to repay  his mortgage should he be 
unable to work. Mr H has said he had a medical condition  sometime before the sale.  
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in May 2008. 
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr H and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN06630782Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in April 2005 after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN06630783The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so YBS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Hs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether YBS gave  Mr H sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
Ref: DRN06630784damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and YBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Did Mr H know he had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form which was signed by Mr H. In this there is 
a section for PPI with the option to accept or decline the policy.  The option  to accept the PPI 
has been ticked, but I think it is clear Mr H also had the option to refuse the cover if he didnt 
want it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr H knew the policy  was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
YBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr H hasnt told us if he was advised to 
take out the PPI or not, but our adjudicator considered this as a non-advised sale and Mr H 
hasnt responded  to disagree. In light of this, and because Ive not seen anything  to 
persuade me that advice was given,  Ive also considered this as a non-advised sale. 
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr H. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr H to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr H was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr H was unable  
to work through accident, sickness, hospitalisation  or unemployment)  and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr H would have taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  
be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr H agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN06630785In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that YBS ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr H? To what extent did Mr H suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found YBS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr H. So Ive gone  
on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable  to conclude Mr H suffered loss and 
damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether or not Mr H would have still taken 
out the policy, had YBS done  things properly. 
Mr H says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr H had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of Mr H being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr H chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr H thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr H has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr H knew he would have to pay something for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  YBS told him the exact  premium at the point he agreed  to take 
out the policy. Having said that, the cost and benefit  information was set out clearly on the 
mortgage offer which was sent to Mr H after the meeting took place,  but before the policy  
started  and he paid for the policy for a number  of years, so if the costs  were significantly at 
Ref: DRN06630786odd with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible  he might have raised that with 
YBS at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr H would have found  the cost and benefit unacceptable if he 
had been given the exact figures during  the meeting in which  he agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or associated  
symptoms that Mr H knew about  or should reasonably have  known about  at the start 
date of the policy; or that he had seen  or arranged to see a doctor  about during  the 
12 months immediately preceding the start date; and which recurs within 24 months 
of the start date
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back pain and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his own job, or any similar work which knowledge, training or ability reasonably  
qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr H pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. Mr H told us that he had a 
medical condition  about ten years before the sale of the PPI. But the health problem Mr H 
had, was a common  condition cured  by surgery and from what we know,  after this was done, 
it was unlikely hed need any ongoing treatment. Mr H hasnt told us about any other  
treatment he had to have or any other  condition he suffered from prior to the sale. So, I dont 
think Mr H wouldve considered this condition as something he would need to claim for in the 
future and I dont think it wouldve affected  his decision to take out the PPI. So, I still think  he 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept that back pain and mental  health conditions are common problems and the steps  
required to make a disability claim for such conditions were more  onerous than Mr H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr H 
from taking out the policy,  Mr H, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out. 
Ref: DRN06630787If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  work which in the insurers view he might reasonably become qualified  for, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would have done. And I accept it may 
have given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr H was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
YBS may not have  told Mr H that any claim he made  for accident, sickness,  hospitalisation 
or unemployment would be limited  to a 12-month  period. This may have differed from what 
he expected and might have  hoped for, but he didnt have any employee  sick pay and had 
limited savings to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr H would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage repayments would have been of benefit to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr H be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if Mr H was made redundant, or unable  to work through the accident  or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr H would have taken 
out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H wouldnt have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN06630788Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken  out the 
PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude YBS should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr H thinks YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
April 2005 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find YBS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr H and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that YBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0663078