K821x#15complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the decision by Admiral  Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) to pay 
out for a third party  (TP) claim which  she believes was made fraudulently. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 November 2019, a copy  of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary,  I said that Admiral shouldve done more to ensure that a fair investigation was 
carried out before any decision on liability, including compensation, was made.  Because of 
this I said Admiral should pay for the settlement value of the claim (excluding legal costs). 
Both Miss S and Admiral were given the opportunity to comment on my provisional decision. 
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss S provided additional comments. Ive 
addressed these comments below. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss S says that I made it clear  to admiral that I did not want them to represent  me legally in 
any form. I was sent a form to fill in called form of consent and indemnity as was my 
mother. Neither of us chose to complete the form and instead informed admiral that we 
wished to deal with the legalities ourselves. Because of this Miss S doesnt think she should 
have to pay for the legal  costs incurred in settling the claim. 
Miss S feels strongly that she wanted  to deal with the legal claim herself. I cant  see that 
Miss S insurance policy provided for this option. Admiral was allowed to deal with any third 
party claims arising from Miss S insurance  policy. So I dont  think  it was unreasonable  that it 
instructed its own legal team to deal with the claim. 
Miss S wouldve been liable for paying  the legal costs associated with her claim- whether 
she chose to defend it, or seek legal advice on what to do. I cant say what  these costs  
wouldve been. I dont  think  its unreasonable for her to remain responsible  for the costs 
incurred in the circumstances.  
Miss S has also commented  on the detrimental  effects admiral  has caused  to my driving 
history and loss of no claims bonus  over the past 18 months. Miss S feels  strongly that 
Admirals handling  of her claim has impacted on her future no claims bonus.  As a claim was 
made by a third party against Miss S insurance policy,  this would be reportable  to the CUE. 
As part of the provisional decision I explained that its not the role of this service  to determine 
liability. Because of this, I cant say what the outcome of this claim wouldve been had 
Admiral done more to investigate  the claim properly. 
Ref: DRN03960652Although I cant speculate what the outcome  of Miss S claim wouldve been, I think  the 
compensation directed in my provisional  decision goes far enough  in recognising  that 
Admiral couldve handled things better. Its not for this service  to tell an insurer how to 
determine a claim. The provisional  decision directed  that Admiral  incur the cost of the 
settlement value of the claim.  I think  this compensation is fair in recognising  the uncertainties 
of what may have happened, including things like Miss S no claims bonus.  
Because I havent  seen any further evidence that would alter my view, my provisional 
decision remains unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I uphold this complaint. 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  should do the following:
1.Record and treat the settlement amount of £2,000 as being  met by Admiral  Insurance  
Company Limited for the purposes of this claim.  
2.Record and treat Miss S as being responsible for paying the £660 legal costs of this 
claim. 
3.Update the marker recorded with the Claims and Underwriting  Exchange  (CUE) to 
reflect 1 and 2.
4.If Miss S has paid more for her car insurance  premium following the claim (and this 
increase wouldnt  have happened  if the CUE  had recorded the claim in line with this 
decision), provided proof of loss is given  to Admiral, Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited should refund the difference  in cost to Miss S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the decision by Admiral Insurance Company Limited  (Admiral) to pay out for a 
third party (TP) claim which she believes  was made fraudulently. 
background
Miss S had a car insurance policy with Admiral. 
Ref: DRN03960653In April 2018,  Miss S drove her car to a boot sale. Miss S allowed her Mum, Mrs S, to park the car. 
Mrs S was not insured  to drive the car. Whist Mrs S was reversing the car; the TP claims he was 
injured. 
In May 2018,  Admiral received notification for a personal injury claim sent by solicitors representing 
the TP. Admiral contacted Miss S and Mrs S to discuss the claim.  Mrs S says that the car was parked 
at the time she heard a thud.  Mrs S says the impact was the TPs hand hitting the car. Mrs S was able 
to confirm with the TP that he was a police officer  by occupation. Mrs S explained that there was a 
witness who could confirm that it was the TP who deliberately walked  into the car and provided details 
for this person. Admiral  unsuccessfully tried to contact the witness so they left a voicemail asking  for a 
call back. Admiral wrote  to Miss S saying that it wouldnt be offering indemnity  for the claim. 
Miss S policy booklet says:
If we are required  to pay a claim under Road Traffic Law we shall be entitled to recover 
such payments (including legal costs of reasonably defending the claim) we make from you if 
you or any other insured person:
  caused or permitted the vehicle to be driven by an uninsured driver
Miss S disagreed  with the information provided  by the TP about how the incident  had happened. 
Admiral appointed  an investigator to interview Mrs S about her recollections of the incident to help 
determine liability. Following  this interview,  the investigator recorded the following:
1.Mrs S confirmed she had reversed the Insured Vehicle, which  
belonged to her daughter, into a parking area within  the field where 
a car boot sale was taking place.
2.She was adamant that the Insured  Vehicle did not contact the TP 
vehicle whilst she was reversing.
3.She has since been informed that the TP had walked into the 
rear of the vehicle, rather than the Insured Vehicle being  reversed 
into him.
In July, Admiral  wrote  to Miss S saying  that it would be claiming reimbursement for the outlay of the 
claim, totalling £2,660. This was made up of £2,000 paid to the TP as compensation  for damages, 
and £660 in legal fees for dealing with the claim.   
Miss S complained  about Admirals handling of her claim  saying that it hadnt done enough  to 
investigate her concerns  about  the claim being fraudulent. Admiral didnt agree with Miss S, and so 
didnt offer any compensation. 
The investigator found  that Admiral hadnt acted fairly in its investigation of the claim. The investigator 
said that Admiral  shouldve done more to contact the witness Miss S had provided  details for, and it 
shouldve asked for medical evidence to support the injuries claimed for by the TP, before paying out. 
Because of this, the investigator  recommended Admiral should cover  the costs  of the TPs claim,  
remove any fault marker against Miss S, and recalculate and refund the costs of any insurance 
premiums paid by Miss S affected by the fault marker. 
Admiral disagreed with the investigators findings saying  that it had done enough to investigate the 
claim, and on balance, the evidence it had didnt support a decision to defend the claim. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  reviewed the case, Ive reached a different outcome to that 
reached by the investigator. Ive explained  why below.
Ref: DRN03960654When we investigate  a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim,  our role is to consider 
whether the insurer handled the claim  in a fair and reasonable  manner. 
Its not disputed that Mrs S was uninsured when  driving  the car. Ive seen that Miss S insurance 
policy allowed  Admiral to recover costs, including  any payment made to a TP, directly  from Miss S as 
a result of this. So whether Admiral defended or paid out on the claim, any costs wouldve been 
recovered from Miss S. 
The investigator found  that Admiral shouldve  done more to fully investigate  Miss S claim. I agree that 
Admiral couldve done more to contact  the witness  it had details for and investigate  the TPs alleged 
injuries before deciding  on the claim.  I can see why Miss S is frustrated  that this didnt happen. Miss S 
feels strongly that the TPs claim was fraudulent, and that further investigation may have changed the 
outcome of the claim. 
Its not the role of this service to determine how a Court wouldve determined liability. Its not certain 
what a Court wouldve  decided if the claim  had been  taken further and defended by Admiral.  
However, I think its fair to say that Admiral didnt  carry out a full and proper investigation before 
reaching a decision to pay out on the claim. 
The evidence  shows that although both Admiral and Miss S agree that there was impact, Mrs S felt 
strongly that she hadnt hit the TP the way hed described. Admiral had been provided  with details  of a 
witness who couldve provided  more  insight on what had happened. Its not for this service to 
determine what  weight may have been placed  on this evidence,  but I think  Admirals lack of 
investigation of witness details it had been provided details for, was poor. 
Admiral justified its decision to pay out £2,000 on the basis that it had received a claim form from the 
TPs solicitors, where the TP had cited soft tissue injury.  I agree  with the investigators findings that 
this shouldve been investigated further. Because Admiral knew the details of the claim  were  disputed, 
and that there was a witness who couldve clarified this; at the very least a medical report  shouldve 
been obtained  with a professional opinion detailing the injuries claimed for. I cant see that any steps 
were taken by Admiral  to verify the injuries  claimed.  I dont think  this was reasonable. Given  the value 
of the claim paid to the TP, and that Miss S wouldve been pursued for this amount, I think  there was 
a responsibility  on Admiral to ensure that a fair investigation was carried out before any decision on 
liability, including compensation, was made. 
Given the uncertainties  surrounding what may have happened if the case  had been properly  
considered by Admiral,  I think  a fair outcome for this complaint should  reflect  the fact that Miss S 
wouldve incurred some  costs in Admiral defending the claim, and that Admiral shouldve  undertaken 
a more  in-depth investigation before  agreeing to pay the claim.  
With these  considerations  in mind, I think a fair outcome is for the TPs settlement amount of £2,000 
to be met by Admiral.  This takes into consideration  their lack of investigation on the claim. This would 
mean that Miss S is responsible for paying the £660 legal costs. I think  its fair that Miss S pays  this, 
as she wouldve been responsible for legal costs whether the claim was defended or not. I think the 
marker recorded  with the Claims  and Underwriting Exchange (CUE)  should be updated to reflect this 
settlement. If Miss S has paid more for her car insurance premium  following the claim (and this 
increase wouldnt have happened if the CUE  had recorded the claim in line with this decision), 
provided proof of loss is given to Admiral, it should refund the difference in cost to Miss S.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  provided I intend to uphold  this complaint. 
I intend  to ask Admiral  to settle this complaint as detailed in my findings  above. 
Ref: DRN0396065