K822xcomplaint
Mr M is unhappy  with what The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has done  to put things right 
following his complaint about the way it sold him a payment protection  insurance  policy.
background 
Mr M took out the PPI in 1998, at the same time as he applied  for a credit card. Mr M thinks  
the policy was mis-sold.  
RBS investigated  the complaint and agreed that it had been mis-sold. It offered to put Mr M 
in the position hed be in if he hadnt bought the policy. 
But because of the time that had passed, it didnt know how Mr M had used the card  so it 
had to make  assumptions  to work  out what it needed to pay him. It worked out it needed to 
pay £471.45.
Mr M thinks he should get more.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that what  RBS had offered was fair.
Mr M didnt  agree. So the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS has offered  to settle Mr Ms complaint, Ive just looked  at whether what  it has offered 
is fair.
The PPI was added to a credit card.  So ordinarily  Id expect RBS to pay back  the difference 
between what Mr M owed  and what he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI on the 
account.
In Mr Ms case, though,  RBS doesnt have  any statements. This isnt surprising given how 
long ago the card closed,  so I dont think this is unreasonable.  To work out what  it needs to 
pay Mr M, it has assumed Mr M had borrowed his entire credit limit by the day the card 
ended, and that the balance Mr M owed  increased steadily to this amount from the date the 
card opened.
RBS has then refunded  the PPI it would have  charged on these balances. Its worked this 
out to be £187.50. It has added  £27.84, representing the interest it would have charged on 
those premiums at the card rate. And as RBS assumes Mr M repaid the card in full when it 
ended in 2000, it has also added simple interest  (the rate is 8% a year)  from the date the 
card closed until Mr M gets the money  back, to compensate Mr M for the time hes been out 
of pocket. After tax, RBS said this simple interest was £256.11.
Mr M thinks he should get more. Instead of increasing gradually, Mr M assumes he always 
had a balance  close to his credit limit. He says he used the card for business  expenses,  and 
so would have  kept a high balance. So he thinks he should get back  more  in premiums and 
Ref: DRN03046152interest. Mr M feels  strongly he should get more  because  of the way RBS has handled his 
complaint. And he doesnt believe that RBS hasnt kept the statements for his account.
So Ive thought about what  Mr M has said alongside  the other information I have about the 
card.
Because of the time thats passed  the information  I have  about how Mr M might have used 
the card is very limited. Neither  Mr M nor RBS have statements   and Mr M has says he 
doesnt have any other  information showing how he might have used the card.  
Mr M has said that he thinks RBS is lying about  not having statements.  I understand his 
concern, but I dont  think RBS is lying. I think it probably removed the statements from its 
system when it thought  they would no longer be needed, which I think  is reasonable given 
the amount of time that has passed.
I note what Mr M says about his spending  habits. Equally, RBS has sent us the application 
form for the credit card  and this says that at the time Mr M took out the new card he had 
two other  credit cards, both with zero balances. So while I accept Mr M may have  spent up 
to his credit  limit, I think  its also possible he might have owed less or repaid the account in 
full.
RBS assumes the balance increases  gradually  over the two years the card is active, from 
zero to the maximum credit  limit. In the absence of more accurate information about how 
Mr M used  the card, I dont think this assumption  is unreasonable. The offer includes an 
amount to represent  the premiums, the interest charged on those premiums and simple 
interest to compensate  Mr M for the time hes been out of pocket. 
Ive also looked  at Mr Ms calculations. I see he works out the premiums based  on a balance 
of £2000 for 24 months. He adds simple interest  at 8% a year to that amount. He then adds 
simple interest at 8% on that total for the remaining 18 years  and 7 months.  He reaches a 
higher figure. As I see it, the main difference is how much Mr M thinks hed have paid in 
premiums. But for the reasons Ive explained above,  I dont think  RBSs assumption is 
unreasonable.
In all circumstances, I think what RBS has offered is fair.
Finally, I note Mr M is very unhappy  with the service hes received from RBS. He feels his 
integrity has been questioned, and he feels hes been lied to. I see it did take RBS a while  to 
sort things  out  and at first RBS didnt think it had sold PPI to Mr M. But given that Mr M 
was complaining about a card that closed nearly  18 years ago, I can also understand why 
RBS had limited information with which  to investigate  the complaint. 
I note that RBS has separately  offered  Mr M £100  for the trouble and upset it caused  and 
Mr M initially accepted this amount. I should  explain that if I award compensation for the 
trouble and upset  a business has caused  this is not to punish the business  it would reflect 
the impact the businesss actions have had on Mr M. Looking  at everything thats happened,  
I dont think what RBS has done justifies a further  award.
Ref: DRN03046153my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has offered 
fair compensation for Mr Ms complaint about mis-selling PPI. If it hasnt paid this already, it 
should now bring the calculation up to date and pay him the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0304615