K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr S payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2006.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs and Mr Ss comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
From  the evidence Ive seen,  I think Bank  of Scotland  probably made Mrs and Mr S 
aware that the PPI was optional, but that they still chose  to take it.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr S, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  secured  on your home  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would 
have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs and Mr S received any employer sick pay, 
and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need to fall back on 
any savings or other means of support. This all would have put Mrs and Mr S in a more  
secure position, if they eventually  lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI 
when they took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially  useful, and so it 
was appropriate  for Bank of Scotland to recommend that Mrs and Mr S consider taking it 
out. 
Its not clear how well Bank of Scotland  explained the costs and benefits of the policy 
during the sales  process. But I dont anyway think full and clear information  about the 
costs would have  affected whether Mrs and Mr S took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mrs and Mr S would  have been affected  by any of these. Its likely 
they were eligible  for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel 
it at any time without further  cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN02939282Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0293928