K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined to settle 
her motor insurance claim in full. 
background
Mrs N made  a claim following  the theft of her car. AA reviewed the claim and found that 
Mrs N had previously had another  car stolen which she hadnt told it about when she applied  
for her policy. It said that if Mrs N had told it about  the theft it would have charged her a 
higher premium. So it paid a reduced  amount in settlement of the claim, based  on the 
proportion of the premium  Mrs N had paid. Mrs N was unhappy as she felt shed answered 
the questions  shed been asked accurately.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said that AA hadnt applied  the relevant rules 
fairly. The investigator felt Mrs N had answered the questions in a way she thought  was 
correct. AA disagreed  so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this complaint and Ill 
explain why.
When Mrs N applied for her policy she had a duty  under the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representation)  Act 2012 (or CIDRA)  to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.  For AA to take any action,  such as settling a claim on a 
proportionate basis, it needs to show that Mrs N didnt take reasonable care and made a 
qualifying misrepresentation.  
CIDRA sets out what needs to be considered when deciding whether a consumer failed to 
take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions Mrs N was asked.
When she bought  the policy Mrs N was asked Have you had any driving incidents or made 
any insurance claims in the last 5 years? . Mrs N answered no. She said she answered  
honestly and as accurately as she could because when her previous car was stolen she 
contacted her insurer to make a claim but she later withdrew the claim when  the car was 
recovered. So in her mind  there wasnt a claim as she had her car back.
In my opinion, the answer to the first part of the question isnt a misrepresentation because a 
theft isnt a driving incident. There is an argument about whether or not a withdrawn claim 
constitutes a claim in the context of the question.  But even if I give the benefit of doubt to AA 
in respect of that argument, Im satisfied that Mrs N took reasonable care in answering the 
question. Even if her answer might  be technically  incorrect,  I dont think  its unreasonable  for 
Mrs N to have concluded  that her withdrawn claim didnt fall within  the ambit of the question 
asked.
In the statement of insurance document that was sent to Mrs N after the sale,  Mrs N was 
asked Have you or any person who will drive  been  involved in any accident  or suffered any 
loss (whether to blame  or not) involving a motor vehicle  whether or not the subject of an 
insurance claim  in the last five years?. The answer was pre-printed by AA as no and 
Ref: DRN08176512Mrs N didnt correct it. She said this was because, in her mind,  she hadnt suffered a loss 
(because her car had been recovered and there  was no need to claim)
Ive got concerns over the fact that this question is completely different to the question  asked 
at the application stage,  and that AA gave Mrs N with no warning whatsoever of that fact  it 
effectively left it to her to discover the different  question.  But I dont need to explore  that 
further because  Im not persuaded  that Mrs N answering no to the question constitutes  a 
misrepresentation.
The question asks whether anyone who will drive has been involved in an accident in the 
last five years. And the correct answer is no because the theft of a car isnt an accident. 
The question also asks whether anyone who will drive has suffered  any loss involving  a car 
in the last five years.  I think the correct answer  is no because  Mrs N didnt suffer a loss. 
She might have suffered a potential loss if the previous car hadnt been  recovered, but the 
question didnt ask about potential losses. 
AA argued that the question referred to any loss, even if it was temporary.  Im not persuaded 
by that. The question simply referred  to loss. In my opinion its reasonable to interpret that 
as losses actually suffered. If AA wanted  to know about potential losses  or temporary  losses 
then the question it asked needed  to be clearer.
But even if I ignored  the concern I have over AA changing the question and the conclusion I 
reached about there not being a misrepresentation, Id still be satisfied that Mrs N took 
reasonable care when  not correcting the answer.  Mrs N withdrawing the claim as soon as 
the car was recovered tells me she didnt think there  was any loss to claim for. So in her 
mind she hadnt suffered  any loss. I dont think that was unreasonable. 
As Mrs N took reasonable care in answering  the question  at the application stage,  and there 
wasnt any misrepresentation in respect of the revised question included  in the statement of 
insurance, AA has no right under CIDRA to amend the terms of the policy or to reduce the 
settlement of Mrs Ns claim.  Essentially  the contract agreed stands as it is. Accordingly, I 
conclude that AA treated Mrs N unfairly when it didnt settle  the claim in full.
I can see that Mrs N contacted AA about  this claim several times to challenge why it hadnt  
settled the claim in full. I think this wouldve  made  the experience  of having her car stolen 
(and her home broken  in to) more stressful  than it already was. It also seems Mrs N needed 
to buy a car quite quickly and she had didnt have the full funds from AA to help with this. So 
I think AA should  compensate  Mrs N for the distress  and inconvenience  this caused. 
Finally, Ive noted additional comments AA has made following the investigators view eg the 
circumstances of the two thefts being  similar  and the value of two replacement  cars Mrs N 
has since insured. I havent  addressed these as I dont think they have any bearing on 
whether or not Mrs N made  a qualifying misrepresentation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited  to:
pay Mrs N the difference  between  what it paid for the claim and what it wouldve paid 
had the claim been settled in full;
Ref: DRN08176513add 8% simple interest  per year to this figure,  calculated from the date of the theft 
until the date the payment is made (if it considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from the interest,  AA should tell Mrs N how much  its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs N a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate); and
pay Mrs N £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0817651