K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
Mr Bs car was keyed  along both its sides in December 2018. He claimed on his Advantage 
policy on 11 February 2019. Advantage instructed one of their approved repairers  (AR) to 
repair the damage. The repair work was done  between 21 and 25 March 2019.  Mr B 
collected his car on 26 March and signed  a satisfaction note confirming  he was satisfied 
with the repairs  carried out.
He later complained  saying he wasnt  happy  with the repairs.  Advantage didnt uphold his 
complaint so he asked  us to look into it. One of our investigators considered the evidence 
and felt that Advantage had dealt  with Mr B fairly. But as Mr B didnt agree, the complaint  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key outstanding issues. 
The AR assessed the car on 19 February  2019 and decided what  damage was related to the 
incident. There was a dent on the drivers  door which the AR said wasnt  related therefore 
pre-existing. I understand that on 20 February  Mr B called Advantage and discussed  the 
issue of the dent. But Advantage stood by their AR saying it was pre-existing damage.
Although Mr B signed a satisfaction  note on 26 March,  he later said he wasnt  happy with the 
repairs. Advantage said that in an email to them on 3 May 2019, Mr B said he wasnt happy 
that the wheel arches hadnt  been  painted which meant the sides of his car hadnt  been 
painted. And he also said there was a paint  ridge on the rear passenger  door handle.
I have seen the ARs comprehensive report which shows, through photos,  the condition  of 
the car before the repair work was started.  And as one might expect of a car that was over 
12 years  old there were a number of areas of pre-existing damage unrelated to the claim. 
There were stone chips, some small areas of corrosion  and obvious  previous repair  work 
that showed signs of poor painting. Advantages AR and in-house engineer concluded the 
damage to the wheel arches, the ridge  on the handle and the dent were all pre-existing. 
Advantage only repaired and painted the areas  they decided were  related to the vandalism. 
And under the policy thats all they were required to do. I think Mr Bs expectation was that 
both sides of the car, including the arches,  would be resprayed meaning that any 
imperfections such as stone chips and other damage would be repaired before the sides 
were resprayed. But thats not what I would have expected Advantage to do and I dont think 
Advantage gave  that impression to Mr B.
Ref: DRN05725102I can see that once  Mr B brought his complaint  to us in May 2019 he mentioned further 
areas he wasnt happy with. He said:  the door card on the drivers side door was hanging off; 
the weather trim on the passenger side rear was hanging off; and the drivers side door wing 
mirror was still scratched. He also said the dent happened while the car was with the AR. 
Ive seen from the ARs report  that the wing mirror  was identified as being  scratched during 
the incident. And the ARs report and final invoice both confirm  that the mirror was replaced. 
But when Mr B collected the car he didnt raise  that mirrors condition with the AR or 
Advantage. And theres  no suggestion  that the door card and weather trim were damaged 
during the vandalism. So, I think Mr Bs suggestion  is that those happened while the car was 
being worked on by the AR. But I think those  items,  especially the door card if it was hanging 
off, would have  been obvious  to Mr B when  he inspected  the car before signing the 
satisfaction note and taking the car. And I would have expected him to raise  that immediately  
but he didnt. So Im not persuaded that those were  issues caused either by the vandalism or 
by the ARs repair.
Having considered all the available evidence,  I think Advantage  repaired the incident  related 
damage as they were  required  to under the policy. I therefore think  they acted reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0572510