K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the way that Aviva Insurance Limited has dealt with her home 
insurance claim for subsidence damage  to her property and with its refusal to pay the 
professional fees she has incurred.
background
Mrs Hs property has a history  of subsidence.  She purchased the property in 1988 with the 
benefit cover  for a then current subsidence  claim. Following extensive  periods of monitoring 
and reports, superstructure (above ground)  repairs with some  rebuilding  took place. Further 
subsidence repairs which included  underpinning at the front took place in 2006.
Further cracking was discovered in 2015  and this is what gave rise to the current  claim. 
Aviva arranged an inspection but concluded that there was no evidence then of subsidence 
damage. Mrs H tried to sell the property in 2016 but a prospective  purchasers surveyor 
identified further  possible subsidence. Aviva arranged a further inspection and monitoring. 
Mrs H was dissatisfied and instructed a firm of consultant engineers, C, who corresponded  
with Aviva and produced  a report recommending underpinning.
Aviva said underpinning  wasnt necessary and proposed  after reviewing the monitoring 
results to carry out drainage repairs. It would then carry out the superstructure repairs  and 
monitor the property.  Aviva refused to pay Cs fees as it said it was using its own contractors 
and professional expertise. The position  is that Mrs H wants  the property to be further  
underpinned and is unhappy with just drainage repairs being done.  She also wants Aviva  not 
to use its instructed consultancy service  but to appoint a traditional loss adjuster and 
engineer.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Aviva wasnt liable to pay Mrs Hs 
consultants fees and that it had acted reasonably in respect  of the claim.
Mrs H didnt agree and the matter has been  passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
professional fees
C has pointed to a term in the policy which says:
If we accept a claim for loss or damage  to the buildings we will also pay for the following:
a. Architects and surveyors  fees to repair the buildings. These fees must not be
more than those  recommended by the relevant professional institutes.  But we will
not cover  fees for preparing any claim.
C points out that, unlike other policies the term doesnt require the insurers agreement to the 
fees before  the customer incurs them. And in previous claims Aviva, or its predecessor has 
agreed to the appointment  of an independent engineer.  But here it wont pay because its 
using its own contractors  and experts.
Ref: DRN09173642The essential part of this term is that the fees are to repair  the buildings  ie to oversee 
and/or to prepare  for the repairs to be carried out. Cs fees were incurred because  she didnt 
agree with the way that Aviva was preparing to resolve the claim. Her engineers  report  was 
drawn up with a view to persuading Aviva to carry out the repairs including  underpinning  in 
the way C proposed. And it would usually  be only if an expert  report prepared for the 
policyholder changed the insurers  view of the case that we would  expect it to be paid for by 
the insurer.
At present Aviva has rejected Cs proposals.  It has agreed to carry out drainage and 
superstructure repairs, and further  monitoring. It didnt agree to do that because  of Cs 
involvement. I appreciate  that C had continued to be involved on Mrs Hs behalf.  It 
suggested that further investigations were necessary  after the monitoring results but I 
understand that Avivas consultants had that in mind any way. And it has corresponded with 
Avivas consultants over the drainage repairs. An amended plan was supplied. The essence 
of this case is that C doesnt believe  that Avivas experts/contractors will do a good job so 
will continue to oversee  the matter.  That is a comfort to Mrs H but the cost of that extra  
oversight isnt provided for in the policy terms. .
Mrs H is entitled to use any adviser she wants but, as Aviva is currently  going to carry out 
the repairs, it doesnt have to use C when  it has its own experts available. If Mrs H chose to 
instruct her own contractor and to arrange the repairs herself then Aviva may have to pay 
her experts fees for overseeing that. However, we wouldnt usually think  it advisable in a 
subsidence claim for consumers to arrange  their own repairs  as this could  cause difficulties 
over future insurance and guarantees for the work. 
So, I dont think that Aviva is liable to pay Cs fees.  This is subject to the caveat that if Aviva  
does decide to underpin  after the drainage works and the monitoring are complete, then it 
may well be reasonable  for it to review  its position.
nature of the repairs
C says that repairing the drainage is a speculative way of dealing with the subsidence.  
Considering that the problem keeps reoccurring, it considers it's appropriate to underpin the 
rest of the property.  It further says that the consultancy service used by Aviva isnt 
independent and is geared towards  minimising the loss to the insurer.  C proposes that they 
be replaced by a proper loss adjuster and independent engineer. 
As far as I can see, the last time subsidence repairs were carried out, in 2006, they were 
quite extensive,  involving  partial underpinning. I can understand that underpinning may well 
be the most  robust  way of dealing with any possible subsidence in the future. But 
underpinning isnt covered by the policy unless its the only way of carrying  out an effective 
repair. 
So far Aviva  says that its experts view is that the drainage repairs  will prevent any further 
subsidence damage but it will monitor the building  for a while  once the drainage works are 
completed. And Im not persuaded  by Cs views that that wont resolve the problem, bearing 
in mind the monitoring results so far. Im not persuaded either that its necessary for Aviva to 
replace its consultants. While they arent  independent in the sense that they are appointed to 
report to Aviva, they still have to recommend a repair  which will be effective. It isnt in Avivas 
interest for it to carry out a speculative repair.
I understand that that will mean waiting a while after the repairs  for the monitoring results.  
But on the basis of the information  and evidence I have seen, I don't think its appropriate for 
Ref: DRN09173643me to require Aviva to take any different action from that it has been taking in respect of the 
claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0917364