K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the way Kensington Mortgage Company Limited has treated 
them in relation to their mortgage. Specifically, Mr and Mrs F are unhappy about:
The sale of the mortgage, as they dont think the broker fees were charged fairly;
The transfer of the mortgage  to Kensington from the previous lender;
Arrears fees being  added unfairly  to the mortgage when Mr F was unwell  and fell into 
financial difficulties;
The arrears fees balance being  unfairly added to the mortgage balance, and included  
in the monthly  mortgage payments;
The early repayment charges  attached  to the mortgage.
Overall, Mr and Mrs F do not feel like Kensington, or the previous lender who owned the 
mortgage before it was transferred, have  treated them fairly.
background
In November 2001, Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage for £68,000 via a broker. In 2016, this 
mortgage was transferred  to Kensington.
Mr and Mrs F took out another secured loan in 2006, which theyve also raised complaints 
about. These concerns are being  considered separately by our service, so I wont  be 
commenting on that loan in this decision.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs F complained about  this mortgage, as they didnt feel either  lender had 
treated them  fairly over the life of the mortgage,  for the reasons Ive set out above. 
Kensington issued  a final response letter. It said there had been no fees applied  to the 
mortgage in the last six years, and a complaint about any fees that may have been charged 
before then had been made  out of time. It also said the broker  fees were set out clearly 
when Mr and Mrs F agreed to the mortgage.  In relation to the mortgage payments including 
the arrears fees balance,  Kensington explained the previous lender had sent Mr and Mrs F a 
letter in 2015  to say they would no longer be doing this, and Kensington hasnt administered 
their mortgage in this way. And the transfer of the mortgage took place in line with the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage  that Mr and Mrs F agreed to.
Our investigator looked into things and explained that our service only had the power to 
consider Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about  events that took place after 1 April 2014. He said 
this was because  the loan Mr and Mrs F took out was an unregulated credit  agreement,  and 
the original lender this was taken out with didnt fall within our services compulsory 
jurisdiction until 1 April 2014. So this is the timeframe he considered.
Having done so, he explained that he felt Kensington had treated Mr and Mrs F fairly. He 
said that as Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage wasnt in arrears during this period, they werent 
charged any arrears fees, and the arrears fees balance hadnt been added  to their 
mortgage. He agreed  the mortgage had been transferred to Kensington in line with the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage,  and that any fees and charges applicable on redemption of 
the mortgage were  set out in the mortgage agreement and terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the investigators outcome. Mr F said the terms that allowed the 
transfer of the mortgage were unfair. He was also concerned that a data breach had taken 
Ref: DRN06280222place when the previous lender sold the mortgage to Kensington without  their permission.  
So the complaints  been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Which parts  of this complaint can our service consider?
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage for £68,000 in 2001. This was an unregulated credit 
agreement. Although it was an unregulated agreement, our service  would  still be able to 
consider a complaint about the mortgage if the lender was in our compulsory jurisdiction  at 
the time.  However,  Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage lender didnt fall under our compulsory 
jurisdiction until 1 April 2014, so we can only consider Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about what 
has happened since then.  Ill now go onto consider the way Mr and Mrs F have been treated 
by the relevant lenders  since this date.
The transfer of the mortgage  to Kensington
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy their mortgage  was transferred to Kensington without their 
permission. They believe by transferring the mortgage to another  business, the lender has 
breached their data protection  rights. Its clear  Mr and Mrs F feel very strongly  about  this 
matter and have  sought legal advice,  as well as raised their concerns with the Information  
Commissioners Office.
Whilst I have taken  all of this into account,  we are an informal dispute resolution  service, and 
an alternative to the courts.  As a result, it is not my role to make findings on matters of the 
law  that is the role of the courts. But I can decide  if the business has acted fairly and 
reasonably, which will include having regard to the relevant law and regulations that were in 
place at the time.
Mr and Mrs Fs previous mortgage  lender transferred  the mortgage to Kensington in May 
2016. Mr and Mrs F say they were  not consulted or informed of this at the time. However, I 
have seen letters from both lenders  that were sent to them notifying them of the transfer. Ive 
also seen the contact notes for the mortgage account and note that Mr F had a conversation  
with the lender following  receipt of the letter to ask if he needed to make any changes to the 
way he made his payments in light of the change. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F were 
informed, and aware their mortgage had been transferred at the time.
Whilst Mr and Mrs F acknowledge the terms of the mortgage allowed the lender to transfer 
their mortgage to Kensington  they dont believe this is fair. As they did not have a say in 
the matter, and are unhappy this means their data could have been passed  to other parties  
without their consent at any time.
Mr and Mrs F are correct  when they say they werent consulted on the matter of their 
mortgage being transferred. Their previous lender wrote to them  to tell them the mortgage  
was being transferred, and they were  not given the choice to stay with their existing lender. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage,  which  they agreed to 
when they took it out. These  do allow for the mortgage to be transferred to another  lender at 
any time. So Im satisfied the lender  was acting within the terms of the mortgage  when they 
transferred it to Kensington.
Ref: DRN06280223However, in order to decide if it was unfair  for the lender to apply this term, Ive considered 
the impact this transfer has had on Mr and Mrs F specifically. When  the mortgage was 
transferred, Mr and Mrs F were informed  of this  and told that the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage would remain the same. 
Having considered whats happened  and the way the mortgage has operated  since being 
with Kensington,  I cannot see that Mr and Mrs F have been disadvantaged as a result  of the 
transfer. Kensington have continued  to operate the mortgage in line with the original terms 
and conditions that Mr and Mrs F agreed to, and I cant see that Mr and Mrs F have suffered 
any loss or detriment as a result of this. So Im not persuaded that by transferring Mr and 
Mrs Fs mortgage  to Kensington, the lender has acted unfairly here. 
Similarly, as the mortgage account  had been transferred to Kensington in 2016, they had the 
right to hold Mr and Mrs Fs data that the previous lender held on them from that point. As 
the new owner of the mortgage  Im not satisfied Kensington having access to Mr and Mrs Fs 
data was unfair. I understand Mr and Mrs F feel that Kensington having access to their 
personal data has caused  them a significant amount of distress and inconvenience. But 
whilst I empathise  with Mr and Mrs Fs situation and understand theyve been through  a 
difficult time, as I dont think the transfer of the mortgage, along  with Mr and Mrs Fs 
information was done unfairly,  it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Kensington to compensate  
them for this.
Arrears fees added to the mortgage, and the way Mr and Mrs F were treated whilst in 
financial difficulty
Having carefully considered everything  Mr and Mrs F have told us, as well as the history of 
the mortgage account, I can see theyve  been  through an extremely  difficult  time over the 
years. And I understand managing this mortgage  alongside other financial commitments has 
been a strain at times.
But as Ive explained I can only consider the way Mr and Mrs F have been treated since  1 
April 2014  so Ive looked at the transaction history  and the contact between  all parties  
since that point.  And whilst they had been through difficult times earlier,  from 2014 Mr and 
Mrs F have  been managing their monthly payments,  and there havent been any arrears on 
the account as a result. So no fees have been charged by either lender for this either. 
It doesnt seem any conversations have taken place between Mr and Mrs F and Kensington 
about them  finding it difficult to make these  payments, or asking for help. And as Mr and Mrs 
F have been making their payments regularly, Im not persuaded  Kensington should  have 
done anything  more to reach out to Mr and Mrs F to check theyre managing  with their 
monthly commitments. As a result, Im satisfied Kensington have treated Mr and Mrs F fairly 
in this respect, and wont be asking them  to refund any fees  as they havent charged any.
The arrears  fees balance being  unfairly included in the monthly  mortgage  payments
In September  2015, Mr and Mrs Fs lender wrote to tell them that moving forward they would 
no longer be including Mr and Mrs Fs outstanding fees balance  within  their contractual  
monthly payments.  This resulted in a change  to their monthly payments from £349.32  to 
£345.19. It did however  mean that there would be an outstanding  fee balance  that Mr and 
Mrs F would need to make arrangements to pay before the end of the mortgage term  
which was £561.45  at the time.
Ref: DRN06280224The fact that the lender was including this fee balance within  the monthly mortgage 
payments was not in itself inherently unfair.  Operating  the account in this way meant that the 
total amount Mr and Mrs F owed would be repaid by the end of the mortgage  term  with the 
overall balance  reducing each  month, resulting in less interest  paid on the fee balance  
overall than if it was not reducing. 
However, if this was causing  Mr and Mrs F difficulties  and making it harder for them to afford 
their mortgage payments,  we might consider it would be unfair for this to have been  done 
automatically. But as Ive explained  above,  from April 2014 onwards Mr and Mrs F were 
managing their monthly payments  when they fell due. And after receiving the letter sent in 
2015, Mr and Mrs F contacted the lender and paid off the outstanding fee balance  in full. So 
overall, Im not satisfied  Mr and Mrs F have been disadvantaged by the way the mortgage 
account was operated  after April 2014, and I dont think  theyve been  treated unfairly.
The early  repayment  charges
Mr and Mrs F have  not redeemed their mortgage  with Kensington, and so havent paid any 
early repayment charges.  Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage, 
there are no charges applicable if they were to repay the loan before the end of the term, as 
long as they give one months notice before redemption. 
However, there is a mortgage exit fee that will be payable  once  the mortgage is redeemed   
whether this is done early or not. The latest  tariff of charges we have which is dated 2018, 
states this amount would  be £80. The purpose of this charge is to cover  the administrative  
costs to the lender of ending the mortgage  contract and removing the charge from their 
propertys title, and is common  across the industry.  
The credit agreement states that administration costs  and legal fees to discharge  the 
security are payable, so whilst the costs  arent  set out separately  in the agreement,  it is clear  
there will be a cost that Mr and Mrs F will have to pay. Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage isnt due to 
be repaid until 2026,  so the actual cost charged could still change by then, or whenever they 
decide to repay the balance if they do choose to do so early.  But Im satisfied that the lender 
charging a fee for ending the mortgage contract  generally, is not unreasonable.  And as Mr 
and Mrs F have  not paid such  fees or charges  I wont be asking Kensington to do anything  
further here.
Overall, I do empathise with Mr and Mrs F, as theyve  clearly been through  a difficult time 
over the years as a result of both poor health  and troubles with employment. But within  the 
time frame I have the power to consider,  Im not satisfied theyve been treated unfairly by 
Kensington or the previous lender in respect of the complaint points Mr and Mrs F have 
made. So I wont be asking Kensington to compensate them.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2020.
Ref: DRN06280225Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0628022