K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent money  to him that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Mr Lender  provided Mr W with a loan for £200 in 
November 2010.  Mr W says that the repayments  of the loan took so much of his income  that 
he needed to borrow again. He says the loan repayments were unaffordable  and that his 
credit report  would have  shown he had other debts outstanding, including  other short  term 
loans. He said defaults had been recorded  on his credit file and he wanted  these removed 
as well as the interest  he paid on this loan refunded.
Mr Lender says that before providing  the loan to Mr W it carried out an affordability 
assessment including an employment  check. It says Mr W had a monthly income  of £1,200.  
It says it also carried  out a credit check which didnt raise any significant concerns. It says 
the checks carried out were proportionate to the amount borrowed and the results showed 
no evidence of financial difficulty. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint.
Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators complaint and asked for his case  to be reviewed.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. There  may even 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
In this case Mr W was provided with only one loan and so there wasnt  a pattern of 
borrowing. I have therefore considered  the checks that were carried out before the loan was 
provided and whether  these were proportionate.  Also whether the information gathered 
raised concerns  that would require further checks to take place.
Before the loan was provided, information  was gathered  about  Mr Ws income. His monthly  
income was recorded  as £1,200. The loan required a repayment of £265. Mr W has said in 
his complaint that his expenses at the time were  such that he didnt have any disposable  
Ref: DRN02954232income to make the repayments. While I note Mr Ws comments,  I havent  seen any 
evidence of his expenses at that time of the loan.
Overall, given the size of the repayment  compared to Mr Ws income,  I think  the checks 
carried out before the loan was provided  were proportionate. As these didnt raise any 
significant concerns  I dont find it unreasonable that the loan was provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0295423