K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited unfairly terminated his 
hire purchase agreement when it fell into arrears. He wants the agreement to be reinstated.
background
Mr O tells us that the agreement fell into arrears as he incurred medical bills in supporting 
family members whod fallen ill abroad. He says he didnt receive the original notice of 
default and when he found out about it he offered to pay the arrears. He says he received a 
notice from Mercedes in December 2018  notifying  him that the debt had been transferred to 
a debt collecting agency. And he states  that he was told that the Mercedes collections team 
couldnt accept  payments  as the account  had been  transferred to this agency. Mr O says he 
doesnt think hes been treated fairly  and its affected his health.
Mercedes told us that as the account had fallen  into arrears  it had terminated  the agreement  
and issued court proceedings  to recover the vehicle. But it said that due to an administrative 
mistake the case had been  struck  out. It said the procedural error had been  rectified  and 
after reinstating the account a further default notice had been issued. When the arrears  
werent paid by the due date of 22 July 2019 it said it had again  terminated the agreement 
and instructed its solicitors to seek the recovery of the vehicle.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said Mercedes had 
a contractual right to terminate the agreement as it had fallen into arrears  and wasnt  brought  
up to date. She said Mr O had been  sent reminders and a default  warning letter.  She felt 
Mercedes had acted  fairly  in terminating  the account  and wouldnt be asking it do anything  
else.
Mr O didnt agree and said he was only in arrears  for three payments and his offer to pay 
had been rejected. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr O went through such a difficult period in his personal  life and I understand 
that this wouldve had an effect  on his finances.  Whenever a customer gets into financial 
difficulty wed expect a business to act fairly and try to work with the customer  to see if 
arrangements can be made  to alleviate the problems. And I can see there was contact 
between Mr O and Mercedes in which he made  certain promises regarding  the making of 
payments. Unfortunately  it doesnt seem  these assurances were  always  met.
When goods are financed through a hire purchase agreement, ownership of those goods 
remains with the lender  until the full amount is repaid. So when payments fall into arrears its 
open to the lender to seek recovery of the goods as well as payment of the arrears.  And 
thats whats happened here.
Mercedes sent notices of arrears  followed  by a warning of default. And when the arrears 
remained unpaid it notified  Mr O that the agreement  had been terminated.  The notice of 
termination was sent by a letter dated 2 February 2019.
Ref: DRN08837142Subsequently, Mercedes  made the decision to commence court proceedings for a recovery 
of goods order  but these  were struck  out in June 2019 due to a procedural  irregularity.  Once 
this error  had been corrected Mercedes sent a further notice of default and when the arrears  
remained outstanding  the court proceedings were recommenced.
On 3 February 2020 a District Judge sitting in the County Court made a recovery of goods 
order allowing Mercedes to retake possession of its vehicle. The order  was suspended 
provided that Mr O pays a sum of £3,038.40 by 30 April 2020. This equates  to eight  monthly 
payments.
This service is unable to issue any decision upon  a complaint which would be inconsistent 
with or tend to interfere  with a judgment  already  passed by a court.  Its inherent  within the 
decision of the court that Mercedes has acted  lawfully in seeking the recovery of its goods. 
And Ive seen nothing  that would persuade me that its actions in dealing with Mr Os 
complaint werent  also fair and reasonable. Wed usually  expect a business to default an 
account when  payments  were between three and six months  in arrears. The arrears in this 
case seem  to have gone beyond  that due to the administrative  errors earlier  in the process. 
In these circumstances Im not going to ask Mercedes  to reinstate the financial agreement.
Mr O is now aware  of what  steps  he needs to take to satisfy the judgment of the court. And 
whilst I know hell be disappointed by my decision,  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0883714