K821x#15complaint
This complaint concerns  a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy, sold 
in conjunction  with a credit  card.  Mrs M applied for a credit  card in 2005 using an online 
application. Mrs M says that Capital  One (Europe) Plc mis-sold the PPI policy.
background
In 2005 Mrs M applied for a Capital One credit card using an online application. At the same  
time she bought  the PPI policy. The policy provided  cover  for Mrs M in case of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy  would have paid 
10% of Mrs Ms outstanding credit card balance  for up to 12 months.
Mrs M complained to Capital One about  the sale of the policy.  Unhappy  with its response 
she brought her complaint to this service.
An adjudicator from this service thought Mrs Ms PPI had been mis-sold.  Capital  One 
disagreed with the adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I dont think Mrs M was given sufficient, clear information  
about the cost of the policy in relation to its benefits to allow her to make an informed choice 
about the policy before agreeing to take it out. I say this for the following reasons:
Capital One has told us that the cost of the policy would have been  presented  as being  
£0.79p per £100 of outstanding balance. And that if Mrs M made a successful claim the 
policy would pay 10% of her outstanding balance for a maximum of 12 months.
In my view this format is not particularly  clear. For example it would be hard for Mrs M to 
calculate how much  she would be paying  in premiums for any particular benefit and it is also 
not clear that Mrs M would still need  to pay the premiums during a claim which  would reduce 
the value of the benefit.
The cost and the benefit of the policy is a significant feature and as such  should have been 
highlighted to Mrs M in a clearer way than it was. It is my view that it would have been 
difficult for Mrs M to work out how much the policy would cost her in relation  to the benefits 
provided.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs M given her circumstances at the time. Mrs M has 
previously told us that she recalled being entitled  to between three and six months  sick pay 
from her employer if she couldnt work.
But based  on my knowledge of Mrs Ms employer I think she would likely have been entitled 
to full sick pay for substantially longer than three to six months. And if Mrs M had been given 
clearer information about the cost of the policy  I doubt she wouldve have  considered the 
policy represented good value for money  to her. It follows that I find it unlikely she would 
have gone ahead and bought the policy.
Ref: DRN02893542what Capital  One must do to put things right 
Capital One should put Mrs M in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Capital One should find out how much Mrs M would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mrs M owes  and what  she 
wouldve owed.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Capital  One works out what Mrs M wouldve owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs M paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, Capital One should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point  
when Mrs M wouldve owed Capital  One something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
C.Capital One should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My understanding is that Capital One may have already paid Mrs M some compensation in 
respect of undisclosed commission.  If that is the case  it can deduct what it has already paid 
from the total compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) Plc to 
pay Mrs M fair compensation in accordance with the calculation  I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0289354