K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs R under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that 
she electronically signed in November 2018.  The car was about five years  old and had been 
driven for more than 89,000 miles. She complained  to Moneybarn in February 2019 about  
some issues  with the car. The dealer  arranged  for the car to be inspected  by an independent 
expert who concluded that the car wouldve been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  
to Mrs R. 
But Mrs Rs credit intermediary didnt agree with the inspection report  and arranged  for the 
car to be inspected by a second independent expert. That expert said that the issues 
wouldve ongoing since  the point of sale. The credit intermediary  arranged for the car to be 
repaired and reimbursed  Mrs R for the cost of a hire car. Moneybarn credited £747.16 (two 
monthly payments) to Mrs R because of her interrupted use of the car and it paid her £200 
for the distress and inconvenience that shed been  caused. But Mrs R wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service. 
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the car 
started showing faults within a month of Mrs R taking possession of it and she complained to 
the dealer straightaway.  He said that the car had been in for repairs  at least  twice and Mrs R 
had had the car for less than two months which had caused her major issues  with being  
unable to take her six children to four different schools,  getting to and from work and paying 
her bills. He said that the issues  identified in the second inspection  report  had been repaired 
and he recommended that Moneybarn should  return another  monthly payment to Mrs R and 
pay her a further £400 for the extreme stress  and inconvenience caused to her and her 
family.
Moneybarn accepted the adjudicators recommendations  but Mrs R says that the car has 
more faults. Moneybarn then arranged another inspection of the car by the second 
independent expert.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory  
quality. Whether or not it was will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age, and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mrs R was 
about five years old, had been driven  for more than 89,000  miles and had a price of £11,080. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Theres no dispute that there were some issues with the car. It was inspected by an 
independent expert  in March 2019  when its mileage  was recorded as being 93,765 miles. 
The report  concluded:
Ref: DRN07736032The vehicles overall physical condition and the fact that the vehicle passed an MOT 
with a similar mileage as at the point of purchase  and just prior to the date of sale, 
leads us to the conclusion  that the vehicle was road legal and fit for its intended 
purpose at the point  of sale and met all the criteria laid out in section 75 of the Road 
Traffic Act at that point.
In our opinion the current breaching of the cylinder head gasket has developed  after 
the point of sale as the result of general  in-service deterioration, which  is consistent  
with the vehicles age and reported mileage and therefore this would not render 
vehicle being  unfit for its intended purpose at the point of sale and not being of 
satisfactory quality at the point of purchase.
This opinion  is further reaffirmed by the fact that the vehicle could not have  been  
driven for the 4000  miles  or thereby since the point of sale in its current  condition, i.e. 
lack of compression one cylinder. This in conjunction with a non-starting  of the 
vehicle could not have been  present  at the point of purchase,  as the vehicle could  not 
have been driven  in this condition for any length of time or mileage.
The car was inspected by a second  independent expert the following month  when its 
mileage was recorded as being 95,269  miles. The report said that there was a severe  engine  
knock and a coolant leak and recommended that the rear brakes were examined for pad 
wear. It concluded:
We would conclude  that the vehicle should be presented to a suitably authorised 
repairer for investigation  and rectification of the above reported faults. Whilst we note 
the elapsed time and mileage covered since sale we understand from the owner that 
these faults have been ongoing from sale and that documentary evidence  can be 
provided to support this contention, on that basis the repairing dealer should  be 
involved in the repairs necessary.
The issues  identified in that report were repaired and Moneybarn  credited two monthly 
payments (a total of £747.16) to Mrs Rs account and paid her £200  to compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience  that shed been caused. I understand that the credit 
intermediary and Moneybarn have reimbursed Mrs R for the car hire costs that shes  
incurred.
Mrs R then complained  about  further issues with the car and Moneybarn arranged  another  
inspection of the car by the second independent expert in December 2019. The cars 
mileage was recorded as being 100,070 and the report concluded:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the vehicle  did 
display no undue engine  noises. However, the vehicle could not be road tested due 
to the condition of the front tyres,  the front screen  and the incorrect  size of the 
nearside rear road wheel.
We can confirm a knocking from the offside front inner steering rack end inner  ball 
joint. We would consider that these faults on the balance  of probability would not 
have been developing at finance  inception.
That inspection took place more than a year after the car was supplied  to Mrs R and in that 
time shes been able to drive more than 10,000 miles  in it. The independent expert says that 
the noise from the steering rack wouldnt have been present when the car was supplied  to 
Mrs R and neither of the earlier  reports has referred to an issue with the steering  rack. So I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that that issue has developed since the car was 
Ref: DRN07736033supplied to Mrs R as a result of the use that shes had from the car. I sympathise with Mrs R 
for the difficulties that shes been  caused  by these problems with the car, but I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Moneybarn to pay for the issue  with the 
steering rack to be repaired  or to take any other action concerning that issue.
Moneybarn said that although it couldnt  confirm when an alloy wheel of the wrong size was 
fitted it would be asking Mrs R to get a reasonable quote for a second-hand wheel and would 
be looking  towards funding that if its a reasonable amount. I consider that to be a fair and 
reasonable response in these circumstances. 
Moneybarn has accepted the adjudicators recommendation that it refund a further monthly 
payment to Mrs R and that it should pay her an additional £400 to compensate  her for the 
distress and inconvenience that shes been caused  by these events.  And the issues  
identified in the second independent report have been repaired. I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Moneybarn to pay Mrs R a higher amount of compensation than it has agreed to pay to her 
or to take any other action in response to her complaint (other than paying for the wheel to 
be replaced).
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part. And I order 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  to:
1.Reimburse Mrs R for the cost of replacing  the alloy wheel with a second-hand 
replacement  subject  to a quote  for the cost being agreed with it in advance.
2.Refund to Mrs R a further  monthly payment that shes made under the agreement.
3.Pay an additional  £400 to Mrs R to compensate her for the distress  and 
inconvenience that shes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0773603