K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system have had an impact  on 
payments leaving  her bank account.  She says this has resulted in missed payments to 
service providers and difficulty  in managing her finances, as well as having a negative 
impact on her credit file.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  (copied below). I explained I had carefully 
considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments from the outset,  in order to decide 
what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken into account relevant 
regulatory rules as well as the law and good  industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I intended to uphold the complaint and to issue  instructions  to 
TSB to put things  right. 
Mrs B has responded to my provisional  decision, making a number of points, which I will 
discuss below.
Mrs B has reiterated her concerns about the failed direct debit to pay her council tax. I 
understand Mrs B believed there  was enough money in her account  to cover this payment, 
but it appears that she had authorised other  debit cards payments and, when  these 
processed, insufficient funds were left. As Ive said in my provisional decision, this took place 
prior to the IT problems, so I dont  think this is due to any system issues on TSBs part.
Mrs B has also said that, given the important nature of the council tax payment, TSB 
shouldve allowed the payment as a priority, and has suggested she couldve covered it 
afterwards. I understand  Mrs Bs frustration about the knock-on effects  of the failed payment, 
which have been  inconvenient for her. But having  insufficient funds is a valid reason  for a 
direct debit to fail, so I cant say TSB was acting unfairly in this instance. And, as I explained 
in my provisional decision,  it appears it was Mrs Bs council that cancelled her council tax 
direct debits, so I cant hold TSB responsible  for this either.
Mrs B has also clarified that she agrees her rent was paid by faster payment not direct debit, 
and that her key concern in relation to this is the account information she saw that indicated  
it had not been paid.  I understand  that Mrs B suffered significant  stress as a result  of this, 
and Id like to reassure  her that I thought  about  this point when reaching my provisional 
decision. This is one of the reasons why I recommended an award of £400 to compensate  
her for the trouble  and upset she experienced as a result of TSBs failings.
Mrs B has also explained  that, of the two late payments  to a catalogue merchant mentioned  
in the provisional  decision, only one is likely to have resulted from the IT system errors. As 
such, she has asked  for the redress to be revised  to take this into account. Id like to thank 
Mrs B for raising this point, and have  contacted  both parties to confirm  that the suggested 
compensation award in this case has been  revised  to take this new evidence  into account.  
Neither party has submitted further  comments in relation to this.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, along with the new evidence that has 
been submitted,  I have  reached broadly the same decision as before, and for the same 
Ref: DRN05945952reasons. However,  as specified above,  I have made  a slight  amendment  to the proposed  
compensation, as a result of the new evidence Mrs B has provided.
Neither party has provided any further  evidence  to consider. The deadline  for further  
submissions has now passed. So I am upholding this complaint, and instructing TSB to put 
things right as set out below.
For clarity,  Mrs B has also mentioned that TSB has not yet paid her the full amount  of 
compensation that has been suggested.  However, the correct payment should follow once 
the final decision is issued, should  Mrs B choose  to accept it.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs B £441.20. This encompasses  
a £400 payment for the overall  trouble and upset  Mrs B has experienced, as well as a 
payment of £29.20 for parking, fuel and call charges, and a further £12 for charges resulting 
from one late payment to a catalogue merchant.
I understand that TSB has already made a payment to Mrs B in respect of this complaint. 
Any payment already  made can be deducted from the total compensation award  Ive set out 
here.
In addition, TSB should take steps  to alert the third party catalogue merchant that Mrs Bs 
late minimum payment in June 2018 was most likely  the result of TSB system  errors and 
that, as such,  Mrs Bs credit file should  be amended to reflect this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05945953copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B is unhappy  that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system have had an impact on payments leaving 
her bank account. She says this has resulted in missed payments to service providers  and difficulty in 
managing her finances,  as well as having  a negative impact on her credit file.
background 
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system, linked  to a planned upgrade. 
Mrs B says that shortly  after the IT upgrade she checked her account  balance to ensure she had 
sufficient funds to buy petrol. Having  confirmed an account balance  of £25, she says she filled her car 
with £10 of fuel, only for her card to be declined due to insufficient funds. I understand this resulted in 
the police being called to write up a statement of non-payment, which Mrs B has said was stressful  
and embarrassing.
Following this, Mrs B says she heard  from her childs school that payments werent being  processed, 
and on arriving  home she learnt that her council  tax hadnt been paid. She says shed checked her 
account the week before, and the council tax payment was confirmed. Mrs B has then told us she 
checked her account again and found  that her rent hadnt  been paid either.
Mrs B has explained that she suffered  a severe reaction to this news, and required medical attention. 
I understand this was upsetting for her children, and particularly stressful for one of her children, due 
to his own medical  diagnosis. Once Mrs B had recovered, I understand she attempted  to contact the 
TSB helpline,  but was on hold for nearly two hours before getting through. She has told us that, 
having spent fifteen minutes  explaining  the situation the call was cut off, and she didnt  have the 
energy to start again.
As such, Mrs B says she visited her branch on 28 April 2018,  and set up a complaint.  Despite being 
told she would be contacted within three days, Mrs B says there was no contact. She returned to the 
branch, but made  no progress. Mrs B has told us she estimates she has spent £10 on petrol and £12 
on parking to visit the branch.
I understand that Mrs B made several further attempts  to raise her concerns  by contacting the 
helpline, but was kept on hold for between an hour and two and half hours each time before she gave 
up on the call. Mrs B has told us this impacted  negatively on her time with her children, as it took up 
time she wouldve  normally  spent cooking dinner  and helping with homework. She estimates she 
spent approximately four hours on the phone  in total.
In addition, Mrs B has said that she attempted  to make two payments to a catalogue  merchant, and 
that these  failed, despite  confirmation  these payments  had gone through successfully. As such, Mrs B 
says she incurred various fees of £12 each over a number of months.
Overall, Mrs B has told us that she has suffered severe  stress and anxiety as a result of the problems  
shes experienced. She says shes been unable to eat properly, and that her anxiety levels have had 
an impact on her childrens  happiness and behaviour  in school. She also believes that her credit 
score has been affected by whats happened. I understand that Mrs B has since entered  into an 
agreement with her council to pay her council tax.
Our Investigator recommended that TSB pay Mrs B £41.20 to cover the petrol cost of her journeys to 
and from the branch, parking, call charges, and one of the late charges relating  to her catalogue 
payments. She also recommended that TSB pay Mrs B a further £400 to compensate her for the 
overall upset  and inconvenience,  bring the total award  to £441.20.
Ref: DRN05945954TSB accepted  this recommendation and I understand it processed  the compensation  payment.  Mrs B 
has told us she doesnt think the award is sufficient to compensate  her for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced. She also pointed out that TSB had only paid her £341.20, not £441.20. Mrs B requested 
a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that TSBs system issues have led to financial  losses for Mrs B, as well as causing  her stress  
and inconvenience,  and I agree she is entitled to compensation  for this. 
Ill start by discussing the financial losses Mrs B has experienced.  Mrs B has told us that she has paid 
£12 in parking, as well as incurring fuel costs  from her trips to the branch of approximately £10. In 
addition, I understand she has had to pay for approximately four hours  of calls to TSB,  for which our 
Investigator awarded £7.20 based on a charge of 3p per minute. Based  on the evidence  Ive seen, I 
agree with our Investigator  that TSB should compensate Mrs B for these losses,  which is a total of 
£29.20.
Mrs B has raised  concerns about cancelled  direct debits relating to her council tax and rent. However, 
it appears that her rent wasnt paid by direct debit, and the transaction  was usually  made  as a faster 
payment. So TSB isnt at fault here. As for the council tax, I can see that the direct debit for the 
council tax failed to process  on 16 April,  which  is before  the IT upgrade, so I dont think  this is the 
result of an error by TSB either. Following this, the council tax direct debits appear to have been 
cancelled by Mrs Bs council, not TSB. And any further negotiation about  council  tax payment is a 
matter between  Mrs B and her council, so Im not holding  TSB responsible for any of these  points.
Mrs B has also incurred fees and charges relating to her late catalogue payments. It is clear that 
some of these  charges were incurred prior to the TSB IT system upgrade.  As such, it appears that 
Mrs B mightve been having  trouble keeping  up with payments even before the difficulties resulting 
from the IT upgrade.  However, there are two charges of £12 for late payments that potentially  could 
be due to TSB errors, although it is difficult to say for certain. 
I also accept that the problems caused by the IT upgrade  made the situation harder  for Mrs B to 
manage. So, in this case,  I think it is fair to give Mrs B the benefit of the doubt over the two late 
minimum payment  fees of £12. This means, in additional to the £12 awarded  by our Investigator for 
this, Im also awarding a further  £12. Along with the £29.20 discussed  earlier, this brings  Mrs Bs total 
award for financial losses to £53.20.
In addition, I think  TSB should write to the catalogue merchant and explain that the late minimum 
payments in May 2018 and June 2018 were  most  likely  a result  of its IT system problems, and 
request that any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file as a result of these specific 
payments should be amended. However, I must warn Mrs B that, due to the various other missed  
payments and late charges  showing on her account  which in my view cannot  be linked to the IT 
system problems   this amendment is unlikely to lead to a significant  improvement in her credit score.
Having reviewed  all the evidence available, I agree with our investigator that £400 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for TSB to pay for the trouble  and upset  caused. I know Mrs B 
feels this figure should be higher, and Id like to make it clear that Im not suggesting that she has 
overstated the inconvenience and upset this matter has caused  her. However, this service doesnt 
exist to punish  businesses, but rather to put things right for individual consumers, and in this case I 
think £400 is fair compensation for what Mrs B has experienced. This brings the total figure  Im 
minded to award in this case to £453.20.
Ref: DRN05945955my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint and instruct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs B £453.20. I understand 
that TSB has already  made a payment  to Mrs B in respect of this complaint.  For clarity, any payment 
already made can be deducted from the total compensation  award Ive set out here.
In addition, TSB should take steps to alert the third party catalogue merchant that Mrs Bs late 
minimum payment  in May 2018 and June 2018 were most likely the result of TSB system errors and 
that, as such,  Mrs Bs credit  file should be amended to reflect this.
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0594595