K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  about the problems she experienced trying to open an account with 
Starling Bank Limited.
background
Miss J wanted to open an account with Starling.  She was planning to travel over the 
summer. When  Miss J downloaded Starlings  app to her new phone it opened a second  
account. Starling  it said it would send her the password for her phone  account by text. But 
she didnt receiving any of the messages. And Starling  tried to blame her network provider. 
Miss J wasnt able to access the account. So shed like the remaining account  closing. And 
she wants the credit search removing  and her data taken off Starlings systems. Miss J 
would also like compensation for the poor service.
Starling said Miss J opened an account on 31 May 2018. A duplicate  account was opened 
on 8 July using  a different number. Miss J got in touch to say she was changing her 
telephone number. It noticed  the duplicate account  and agreed to close it. Starling said its 
procedure was to send an email followed by a text message. The customer could then log 
onto the account through the phone app. Starling  said itd tried to get in touch with Miss J by 
text and telephone to confirm the new account.  But it couldnt contact her. It tried to send  the 
confirmation text a number of times.  But the messages showed as undelivered. Starling said 
itd followed its security  procedures correctly. Itd updated the telephone  contact  details 
within 24 hours. But itd been unable to contact Miss J to complete the setup.  And it felt there 
mightve been a network error. Starling offered Miss J a small courtesy gift because  shed 
been unable  to complete  the setup.
Miss J wasnt satisfied  with Starlings response. So she contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He looked at the information  provided  by Miss J and 
Starling. And he was satisfied Starling had made  sufficient attempts to contact Miss J. 
Although it was unusual for the bank  to call on her old number just before midnight he felt it 
was appropriate  as Miss J was travelling the next day. And it hadnt  been able to reach her. 
He couldnt comment  on what technical  issues mightve caused the problem. But he felt 
Starling had followed its procedures properly. And he wouldnt ask it to do anything more.
Miss J didnt  agree. The late call hadnt  resolved the problem. And shed asked  for a call 
much earlier.  Shed  asked  for email contact  as she would be travelling  and couldnt  
guarantee phone coverage. And there was no reason why she shouldnt have received the 
setup messages. Her phone was working  for other calls and messages. So shes asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss J has raised a number of issues 
about how this complaint  has been dealt with. But Ive concentrated this decision on the 
issues that are relevant  to the outcome. 
Miss J was intending to travel abroad. And she wanted to set up a mobile bank account with 
Starling for her travels. It seems she initially downloaded the app to her old phone. And 
when she got a new phone to use aboard  she downloaded the app again. And I think  thats 
why she ended up with two separate accounts   each  linked  to different telephone numbers.
Ref: DRN07071112Miss J told Starling she would soon be going  abroad. So she updated her contact details. 
Although the bank  responded quickly there  seems to have been a lot of difficulty completing 
the account setup on her new phone.  I can see the bank  contacted Miss J by email  to 
confirm her telephone  number  had been updated.  And it suggested deleting  and reinstalling  
its app so she could  access the account. But as part of its security process Starling needed 
to send Miss J a text message to complete  the setup. And I can see it tried nine times but 
they were all shown  as undelivered.
Starling was unable  to get in touch with Miss J on either her old or new number. The bank 
said it wasnt aware of any technical issues that shouldve  stopped  its messages from 
reaching Miss Js new phone. But I can see Miss J checked with her new service provider. 
And it said there was no reason why she shouldnt  have received the messages.
Unfortunately I havent been able to determine  where the problem lies. Starlings records do 
show it tried to contact Miss J so she could  complete the account  set-up.  And both parties 
have checked  with their service providers and cant find any reason why the messages didnt 
get through.  I know Miss J feels some of the attempts were  at the wrong  time or in the wrong 
manner. She only really wanted  contacting  when  the problem had been fixed. She didnt 
want courtesy calls to say it was still being  looked into.
I appreciate it was frustrating that Starling was trying  to get in touch without  a solution. But I 
do think it was trying to act quickly to help Miss J get her account working. The bank knew 
there was a degree of urgency as Miss J was about to begin  her travels. So on balance  I 
dont think Starlings calls were unreasonable - even if some were  only courtesy calls while it 
was being looked into.
I realise Miss J feels she should have  some redress as Starling was unable  to resolve the 
problem. But I cant be certain the problems are because  of any mistake  by Starling. Its likely 
Miss J had two accounts because she installed  the app on two separate  telephones. 
From what  Ive seen Starling followed its procedures properly when trying to contact Miss J. 
As a mobile banking  facility it had to take specific actions to authorise the account. And it 
couldnt use other methods to complete the setup. Miss J had said she was about to begin  
her travels.  So it was trying to help her complete  the account setup before she left.
Ive asked Starling  about the current status  of Miss Js accounts. The bank confirmed one 
account was closed when the duplication was noticed. It cant  remove  any data while the 
other account is open. But if Miss J is able to get in touch at some point it will close  the other 
account after shes confirmed her identification.  Starling says the only thing it is reporting to 
the credit  agencies is that the account is open.
I know this isnt the full outcome Miss J was hoping for. Its clear  shes found the whole 
experience very frustrating. And unfortunately I cant provide any definite  answers  why 
Starling was unable  to contact her and complete the setup. But based  on what Ive seen I 
cant really say Starling  has done anything wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN07071113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0707111