K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading  as Halifax  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr B has said it wasnt  made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  Mr B and BoS 
havent been able to provide much  detail about  what was said in this meeting. And 
there isnt much  paperwork from the time of sale either. Thats  understandable given 
the time that has passed. So Ive thought carefully about  what Mr B and BoS have 
said. And Ive also used what I know about  BoS sales  processes to help me make 
my decision. Having done this, I dont have enough to say that its likely BoS told 
Mr B that he needed to buy the PPI policy. I think its more likely BoS made it clear 
that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Whilst he says he had some sick pay, and his job was secure,  he still seems to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  has been  useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr B back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07103662
Ref: DRN0710366