K820x#14Complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the changes Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  made  to its overdraft pricing  
structure in November 2017.  He says that the method of charging was unfair  and disguised  
the true cost of the facility.
Background
In August  2017,  Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving from a 
pricing structure based on an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) to a daily charge of 1p per 
every full £7 per day. Lloyds once again  altered its pricing structure in February 2019 and at 
this point Mr W complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint. It said it was entitled to change its pricing structure 
and while  this meant some customers might  end up paying more,  it had transitional 
arrangements in place to mitigate this. Mr W remained  dissatisfied and referred  their 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ws concerns. She didnt think  that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong  or treated Mr W unfairly  and so didnt recommend  the complaint be upheld. 
Mr W disagreed  and so the complaint was passed  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says that the price increase didnt highlight or notify account holders of the APR,  
disguised the true cost of his overdraft  and hes referred to government  rules forcing banks 
to change things.  But it may help for me to start by explaining that using an example  or 
representative APR is only one of the ways a bank can explain the costs of an overdraft. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as part of its 2018 and 2019  High cost credit: 
overdrafts review, did go on to conclude that APRs  were the simplest and most transparent 
way of displaying the cost of an overdraft  especially  in terms of comparing the cost 
between banks and to other forms of credit. But the new rules which followed the review only 
came into force in April 2020. 
A requirement for a bank  to display the APR of an overdraft wasnt  in place prior to this and 
the new requirement wasnt retrospective  either. So I dont  think  Lloyds failure to display an 
APR as part of its November 2017 changes  meant  that it did something wrong at this time. 
Id also add  even if only for the sake of completeness - that even if any such  requirements  
had been in place at the time of the change  in pricing structure, it isnt my role to punish a 
firm for a rule breach or to investigate overdraft pricing terms. These are matters  for the 
FCA. 
My role is to look at whether a complainant might have lost out in the event I find that a firm 
did something wrong. In practical terms this means  I wouldnt tell a firm to pay compensation 
to a complainant  just for failing to display an APR, or for increasing  the cost of using an 
open-ended credit facility  such  as an overdraft. But I might tell it to do so in circumstances 
Ref: DRN02539402where the failure to display an APR or the increase  in cost unfairly caused a complainant to 
lose out. 
For example  in circumstances  where  the failure to display an APR misled a customer into 
believing an overdraft  was cheaper  than it was and they ended  up paying more  than they 
would have done had the APR been  displayed;  or a customer was in financial difficulty and a 
bank took no steps to mitigate the effects  of the proposed changes  and this compounded the 
customers difficulties.
I dont think that happened  here though.  I say this because having looked at Mr Ws 
statements I cant see that he changed the way he was using his facility  even after learning it 
was costing him more.  So I cant reasonably conclude that a notification of the sort Mr W is 
referring to, even though it wasnt necessary in the first place, would have made  a difference  
here.  
Furthermore, Ive not seen anything to suggest  that Lloyds ought  to have realised that Mr W 
might have been experiencing financial difficulty either. So while I understand Mr Ws 
strength of feeling  on this matter and fully accept it now costs him more  when  he is 
overdrawn over a certain amount, Mr W could  have stopped using the facility, once he 
realised how much more it would cost on a daily basis, if he didnt want  to accept  the 
changes. 
So I dont  think that Lloyds implemented these changes in a way that treated Mr W unfairly. 
And as the terms and conditions, as well as the relevant rules and regulations in place at the 
time, permitted Lloyds to make these changes in the first place, it follows  that Im not 
upholding Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0253940