K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Standard  Life Assurance Limited  invested his additional pension 
contributions in a cash fund, rather than the fund the rest of his pension  was invested in.
background
Mr D made  two additional contributions into his pension  one in February 2017 and one in 
February 2018. As no instruction  was provided  for where the additional contributions  should  
be invested, they were  placed in a cash fund.  Mr D found out about this and complained 
about the investment growth hed lost out on.
Standard Life looked into his complaint. It said it had written to, and emailed, his financial 
advisor (who  Ill call S) to explain what had happened to the contributions.  Standard Life said 
it also sent Mr D new policy documents showing the additional contributions had been  
placed in a cash fund. Mr D said he no longer uses S and the letters werent  forwarded  on to 
him. He says didnt  receive anything from Standard Life. Mr D also said hed phoned 
Standard Life in 2017 and wasnt told the funds were held in cash. 
Standard Life said it hadnt been told that Mr D was no longer using S. It couldnt find any 
record of Mr D calling to give instructions for the funds to be invested. So as it had no 
instructions of how the additional contributions should be invested, it was right to place them 
in the cash fund.
 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr D referred his complaint  to us where one of our investigators  
looked into it. He didnt think Standard Life was wrong to have invested the additional 
contributions in cash given it hadnt  had any instructions on how it should be invested. He 
was satisfied Standard Life had taken  steps to make  Mr D and his advisor aware of what had 
happened with his additional contributions and what they needed  to do.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So its been passed  
to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard Life has provided a copy of a letter from 2012, which is signed by Mr D, appointing 
S as his financial advisor. Mr D says he only had one meeting  with S and didnt use him after 
this meeting. But Standard Life wouldnt have been  aware of this. I cant  see that Mr D told 
Standard Life he wasnt using S anymore until he made his complaint this year.  Because  S 
was still registered  as Mr Ds advisor,  I dont  think  Standard Life was wrong to continue  to 
write to S. It can only act on the information  it has on record. 
Ive seen copies  of letters and emails sent by Standard Life to S which clearly explain that 
the funds were invested in cash and what S or Mr D need to do if they wanted  to give 
instructions on how the funds should be invested. Its unfortunate S didnt forward these 
documents on to Mr D, but I dont think this is the fault of Standard Life. 
Standard Life has provided copies of the confirmation letters it sent to Mr D each time he 
made an additional contribution to his pension. These  are dated 24 February  2017  and 20 
Ref: DRN01347272February 2018.  They explained  that 100% of the contributions had been placed in a cash 
account. The letters are correctly addressed to Mr D so I think  its likely they were  correctly 
delivered to him.
Considering this and the letters and emails sent to S, I think  Standard Life did enough to 
make it clear  to Mr D the funds were  being held in cash.
Mr D has said Standard  Life shouldve  invested  the funds as the rest of his pension  was 
invested. But I dont  agree. These  additional contributions were for significant  amounts and I 
dont think Standard Life could safely assume  Mr D wanted these  single contributions to be 
invested in the same way as the rest of his pension. So I think  it was right to contact  Mr Ds 
advisor, S, to tell him that it had placed  the funds in the SIPP bank account as it hadnt  
received a clear  investment instruction as to how the funds should be invested. And as it 
didnt receive any response, I dont think it was wrong of Standard Life to leave the funds  in 
the SIPP bank  account. .
Lastly, Ive thought about the calls Mr D says he made to Standard Life when  he made the 
first additional contribution. Unfortunately  Standard Life hasnt been able to locate recordings 
of these calls. I accept its likely Mr D did call Standard Life as he says he wanted to know  
how to make the payment, and then to confirm the payment had been received.  But I dont 
think it follows that Standard Life shouldve been  asking him how he wanted his funds to be 
invested. He had S registered as his advisor,  and I think it was reasonable for Standard Life 
to assume S would make arrangements for the funds to be invested as Mr D required.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134727