K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that FCL Consumer Finance Ltd, trading  as Smart-Pig.com,  (FCL), gave
him loans  that he couldnt afford  to repay.  The complaint is brought  to this service  on Mr Ps
behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions
being taken by Mr P.
background
Mr P took out four payday loans with FCL whilst he was a student. Details of the loans are
below.
Loan number Date of Loan Loan amount  (excluding 
interest)Date repaid
1. 14/11/2014 £250 28/1/2015
2. 9/2/2015 £350 13/4/2015
3. 5/7/2015 £350 27/7/2015
4. 25/2/2017 £350 25/4/2017
Mr P said he was dependent  on payday  loans and stuck in a cycle  of borrowing to repay
previous loans. He said that FCL had failed to carry out effective affordability assessments.
FCL said that Mr P had showed  it that he was in receipt of student  finance to the value of
£3,092.33 per term and hed told it he received £400  a month financial support from his
parents. FCL had also done credit checks  for all the loans. It said that these showed that all
accounts on Mr Ps credit  file were  well maintained.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator concluded that FCLs  checks didnt go far enough for all of the loans. She
also said that all of the loans were unaffordable and recommended that FCL should:-
- refund all interest and charges that Mr P paid on all of the loans;
- pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date of
settlement*;
- remove  any negative  information about these  loans  from Mr Ps credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires FCL to take off tax from this interest. FCL must give Mr P
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
FCL responded to say that it believed Mr P could  afford the loans based on its affordability
rules. It said that it allows students  to borrow until their next student finance date so its loans
differ from other payday loans. It noted  that Mr P received £3,300 per term, and the most he
owed it was £525 which would equate to 16% of Mr Ps termly income, and so not a large
proportion of that income. FCL also said that the adjudicator should have treated the grant
and maintenance  loan for her assessment of Loan 4 on a termly basis, rather than on a
monthly basis. If she had done this, Loan  4 would have equated  to 17% of Mr Ps income.
FCL also said that Mr Ps credit check didnt show that Mr P was in any financial hardship.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN03488262After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to FCL on 13 February 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that FCL was required to lend responsibly.  It should  have made  checks to make 
sure Mr P could afford to repay  each  of the loans  before it lent to him. Those  checks  needed 
to be proportionate to things such as the amount Mr P was borrowing, and his lending  
history. But there was no set list of checks FCL had to do.
Id explained that the Financial Conduct Authority  was the regulator at the time Mr P 
borrowed from FCL. Its regulations require  lenders  to take reasonable steps  to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. The regulations define sustainable as being able to make 
repayments without  undue difficulty,  and that this means borrowers should be able to make 
their repayments on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to 
meet these repayments.
FCL had told us that it had obtained  details  of Mr Ps income and carried  out a credit check
before lending to Mr P. I could see from the information it had provided to us that it was
provided with details of Mr Ps student maintenance loan and grant  covering his first three
loans. This showed  that Mr P had received a total of £3,237.26 paid in part at the end of
July 2014 and in part in early August 2014,  and the same amount  was paid again in
January 2015.  Mr P had received a total of £3,301.48 in April 2015.
FCL had told us that we should  consider the student  finance  on a termly rather than a
monthly basis (for income purposes). I disagreed.  None of the loans were for a whole  term.
Moreover, bills were  generally paid monthly rather than termly so it would have been likely 
that Mr P would budget on a monthly  basis. So for the purposes of assessing affordability, I 
thought considering monthly income  amounts rather than termly income amounts would be 
more appropriate  here.
Id also said I would  have  reasonably expected FCL to have carried  out appropriate checks 
to reflect  the nature of the loans  and because Mr Ps income was in the form of student  
finance which was a fixed amount for the year.
Id also noted  that the first two loans  were repaid from the following student finance payment 
so that would have reduced Mr Ps student finance  for the following term. So, I thought the 
reduced income amount should  have  been  taken into account in calculating  affordability for
subsequent loans.
FCL had told us that it had carried out a credit check before each loan. FCL said that this 
didnt show that Mr P was in any financial  hardship.  I hadnt  seen the results  of FCLs credit
checks.
But I had seen Mr Ps credit report. Whereas I couldnt see anything in the report  which  I 
thought should have  caused FCL additional concerns for Loans  1 to 3, I could see that Mr P 
had five payday loans which were all repaid a couple of months  before Loan  4. I could see 
that might  have suggested  to FCL that Mr Ps finances had been under pressure if the loans 
had been revealed by its credit check. But I was also aware that when a lender carried  out a 
credit check,  the information it saw didnt usually  provide the same level of detail that a 
consumers credit report would and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see 
a small portion of a borrowers credit  file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I 
Ref: DRN03488263was also aware that not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same  credit 
reference agencies.  So, Mr Ps previous payday  loans might  not have been identified  by 
FCLs credit check. So, this might have explained any differences  between  the information  
provided by FCLs credit  check and Mr Ps actual  situation.
Loan 1
The repayment amount for Loan  1 was £375  and it appeared it was due to be paid around 
two and a half months  later on 28 January  2015.  So I would have reasonably  expected Mr P 
to prepare to repay the loan amount over this period. I could see that the loan amount of 
£375 equated to around £147 per month. Mr Ps student finance calculated  on a monthly  
basis was around  £1,079.  So, I could  see that the monthly equivalent loan amount was 
relatively modest compared  to Mr Ps declared income. So, I thought it was proportionate for 
FCL to have  considered Mr Ps declared income at that time, without making further  checks  
for Loan 1. So, I didnt  think  FCL did anything wrong  in giving Loan 1 to Mr P.
Loan 2
Mr P took out Loan 2 twelve days after repaying  Loan 1 and the loan amount had
substantially increased  with a repayment  amount of £525. It was to be repaid nine weeks
later. Again I said I would have reasonably expected Mr P to prepare  to repay Loan 2 over 
that period. I could  see that the loan amount equated to around £252 a month.  Id also noted 
that FCL was likely aware that his finance  payment had been  used to repay Loan 1, so that
would have produced a reduced monthly  income  amount  of around £954. No information 
about Mr Ps outgoings had been provided by FCL.  It didnt appear to have been requested.
But as the loan repayment amount here was a significant proportion of Mr Ps monthly
income, I thought  FCL shouldve gathered some further financial information here, such as
Mr Ps normal living  expenses  and regular financial commitments. I couldnt see that it did 
this.
So I didnt think FCL had gathered enough  information about Mr P to reasonably assess if he 
could afford  to repay Loan 2.
Loan 3
Loan 3 was taken out on 5 July 2015. It was again for £350 with a repayment amount of
£411.60. As the loan was repayable 22 days after being borrowed,  I again thought it
reasonable to look at monthly amounts. The student finance equated to around £729  per 
month. But I thought  that FCL should have again been concerned that the repayment
amount was a large proportion of Mr Ps income. I also thought the regularity of Mr Ps loan
applications might  also have suggested  to FCL by the time of Loan 3 that it should look in
much more depth at Mr Ps true financial situation to assess the affordability of its lending.  It
couldve done this in a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence  of Mr Ps income  and
expenditure such as payslips  and bills, or it couldve looked at things like his bank
statements.
Loan 4
Mr P took out Loan 4 around 19 months  after he repaid  Loan  3. I thought it reasonable for 
FCL to have  seen this gap as an indication that Mr Ps finances  had moved  on from 
whatever situation  had required  his previous  loans. Mr P had shown FCL two letters  to say 
Ref: DRN03488264he was in receipt of annual  student finance  totalling  £14,132. The letters  didnt say when it 
was paid. 
But I could see from Mr Ps bank statements that he received payments in November and
December 2016  and in January 2017. The amount of student finance equated to a monthly
amount of £1,177. The repayment amount of £515.20 was to be repaid just less than nine
weeks later.  Again I thought it likely that FCL might  have thought that Mr P would prepare to
repay the loan over this period. I could see that the loan amount equated to around £262  a
month.
But I thought that FCL should  have  again  been concerned  that the repayment amount was a
significant proportion  of Mr Ps income.  So again  I thought FCL shouldve  gathered  some
further financial information here,  such as Mr Ps normal living expenses and regular
financial commitments. I couldnt see that it did this.
Although I didnt think the checks FCL did for Loans  2 to 4 were  sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Ps complaint  about  these loans should succeed. I also needed to see
whether what I considered to be proportionate checks  would have shown  FCL that Mr P
couldnt sustainably  afford Loans  2 to 4.
Loan 2
With regard to Loan 2, as Id said above,  I would have expected FCL to ask about Mr Ps
normal living  expenses and regular financial commitments whilst taking into account Mr Ps
declared monthly income of around £954.
Mr P told this service that his monthly travel  and food was £250  to £280 per annum. He also
said that hed put money  away from his student  finance to use for back payments of rent, to
pay back people he owed  money to and some  money was for upkeep  and maintenance. The
adjudicator had also asked how much he spent  on rent, utilities  and phone.  But Mr P hadnt
responded to this.
As Mr P hadnt provided us with any figures  for his normal living  costs other than for travel
and food, Id reviewed Mr Ps bank  statements  for the month  before Loan  2 to see what
better checks would  have shown FCL. I thought these  offered a more accurate picture of 
Mr Ps normal living  costs.
I couldnt see on the bank statements any payments for the usual normal living  costs  such  
as rent, council tax and utilities. I could see some spending on regular expenses for travel, 
phone and food which totalled around £206  and a number  of cash  withdrawals. But it was 
difficult to know what the cash was used for. I noted that Mr P spent much  of his income on 
discretionary items, so he could have chosen to repay the loan rather than spend  on 
discretionary purchases. So I thought that the statements suggested that Mr P would have 
had sufficient disposable income  left for unexpected expenses after paying living costs and 
the loan repayment amount. So, I didnt think that carrying out better checks wouldve 
uncovered anything that wouldve stopped FCL from giving the loan to Mr P. Id also noted 
that FCL would have  expected the loan to be repaid from the next instalment of the student 
finance. So, I didnt  intend to uphold  Mr Ps complaint about Loan 2.
Loan 3
Id reviewed Mr Ps bank statements for the month before Loan 3. The statements suggested
Ref: DRN03488265that his student  finance had been spent,  but that Mr Ps identifiable regular expenses were
negligible (around  £57). They also appeared to show  that hed also earned around £762 and
there was again  some  discretionary  spending.  But Id also taken into account  that it was 
likely that FCL knew that Mr P would be receiving student finance shortly after the loan was 
made and the loan was repayable soon after that date. So, again I didnt think  that carrying 
out better  checks wouldve uncovered anything that wouldve stopped  FCL from giving the 
loan to Mr P. It also would have expected the loan to be repaid  from the next instalment of 
the student finance. So, I didnt intend to uphold  Mr Ps complaint about Loan 3.
Loan 4
With regard to Loan 4, as Id said above,  I would have expected FCL to ask about Mr Ps
normal living  expenses and regular financial commitments whilst taking into account Mr Ps
declared monthly income of around £1,177.  Id again  reviewed Mr Ps bank statements for
the month before to find out what better  checks would have shown FCL. I again couldnt see 
on the bank statements any payments  for the usual normal living costs such  as rent, council 
tax and utilities. I could  see some spending  on normal  living costs such  as travel, financial
commitments and food which totalled around £69. So, again I didnt think that carrying out 
better checks wouldve  uncovered anything that wouldve stopped FCL from giving the loan 
to Mr P. So, I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint about Loan 4.
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or FCL my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
Neither Mr P nor FCL has provided any further information in response to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr P and FCL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0348826