K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2008  by post. The policy was 
taken out at the same time as Mr P applied for the credit card. It gave  him accident, sickness 
and unemployment  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr P says he has no recollection of signing for PPI, and asks that we check  its his 
signature. He says he wasnt aware the policy was optional.  The form Mr P completed  
shows he signed separately to confirm he wanted to take out PPI. I am not a handwriting 
expert, but it seems  the signature  matches  other samples of his signature. And I havent 
found anything  on the form that I think could reasonably have led Mr P to believe the PPI 
was mandatory.  Overall, I think Barclays made Mr P aware the PPI was optional and he 
chose to take it. I can understand he might not recall  selecting  PPI as the sale was so 
long ago.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt need to check  if it was suitable for 
him. This means  it was up to Mr P to decide whether the policy  was right for him bearing 
in mind his other ways  to make his credit card repayments if his circumstances  changed.
I agree  its possible the information Barclays gave  Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But Mr P chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover.  He wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  and 
the policy was competitively  priced  and apparently affordable. 
Whilst he was entitled to at least three months sick pay from his employer, the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. He says he had around 
£1,000 in savings but the PPI would have meant he could  have used  these to cover 
other living expenses  whilst not working. So, based on his circumstances and the terms 
of the policy, I think it unlikely Mr P wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Ref: DRN02815382Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0281538