K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that at the end of his car lease PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) asked him 
to pay a final instalment  on his GAP insurance  despite having promised there  would be 
nothing further  to pay if he returned the car.
background
In September  2015 Mr W took receipt of a new car. He financed the three  year deal through  
a hire purchase agreement with PSA.  GAP insurance was included  in the finance 
arrangement. This car was a replacement for a car hed had on lease with them since 2013  
and he believed it was on the same terms.
Mr Ws contract explained that one of the options  available to him, when his new lease came  
to an end, was to return the car with nothing more to pay. He did so in October 2018 but 
was surprised to be presented with a bill for £215.64  for the final balloon payment  on his 
GAP insurance. He thought hed been  assured  he had nothing more  to pay and he said he 
hadnt been told of this requirement by the sales agent at the dealership. So he complained  
to PSA.  But Mr W says their investigation in to the matter took far too long and whilst  
investigating they contacted the wrong  dealership for comments. So he made a complaint to 
PSA.
PSA referred Mr W to his contract where  the requirement to make a balloon payment was 
clearly set out. It explained that there would be 36 monthly payments of £6.36 followed by a 
payment of £215.64,  37 months after the date of the agreement.  They also noted  that Mr W 
had signed the adequate explanation form to say hed been provided with an explanation of 
the GAP insurance  costs  and frequency of payments.  So they thought  there was evidence  to 
suggest hed been told about the costs and when payments would become due.
But Mr W disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked  at 
the evidence but explained  that he had no corroborating information to support Mr Ws 
assertion he wasnt told about the balloon payment. On the other hand he said there was 
evidence, in the form of his signed  contract and adequate explanation form, that the details 
of the insurance  provided had been  explained  to him. 
He went on to consider  the length of time PSA had taken to respond to Mr W but he 
explained that complaint handling  isnt a regulated  activity or something  this service could 
comment on. So overall, he didnt think PSA needed to take any further action.
But Mr W was still dissatisfied. He said there was a single redemption figure on termination  
of the contract  and his previous vehicle had no balloon payment attached. He went on to 
explain that it was clear PSA had contacted the wrong dealership for comments  and theyd 
therefore provided their views independently.  He said that if all the facts  were known to him 
he may not have made a decision to finance the GAP insurance and he asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00506032I know it will disappoint Mr W but I agree with the investigators opinion.  Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
If Mr W was told something  that was incorrect, and if he relied on this information when 
deciding to enter into the contract with PSA, then I would think it fair and reasonable that 
PSA were  responsible for this. And I would ask it to put things right.
Here, Mr W says that he wasnt  told about  the GAP insurance balloon payment and as the 
deal was different  than his previous one it was only right PSA should  have  told him. But the 
credit agreement, which explained  the payments and the frequency of payments and which 
set out the final instalment, was signed by Mr W. He also signed the adequate  explanation 
form which he was asked to do to confirm  he understood, not only the cost of the GAP 
insurance, but its frequency and the final payment. I dont agree  that the insurance 
premiums were not clearly set out. The cost of the insurance and the number of instalments 
was clearly presented  on the first page  of the agreement. So Im persuaded that its most  
likely Mr W had been informed of the payments required.
I can see that Mr W is disappointed PSA dont  appear to have contacted the correct 
dealership. Ive considered whether to ask them to do so. But I dont think this would add any 
value to the investigation. Ive been  provided  with the documentation the dealership  and 
PSA would rely on. This documentation shows that the dealership did discuss the GAP  
insurance balloon  payment  with Mr W and I think it extremely likely this is the information the 
dealership would depend on; especially as its conversation with Mr W was some time ago. 
And regardless, I think PSA are entitled  to rely on the signed  documentation created at the 
point of supply.
I believe Mr W has accepted the investigators  explanation that complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity and we are therefore not entitled to review  his concerns about the way 
PSA managed his complaint. He was, of course,  entitled to refer it to this service after eight 
weeks, if a response wasnt received. But Im afraid  having reviewed his complaint I dont 
think PSA has done anything wrong here and I wont be asking  them to take further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0050603