K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that a used car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Close
Brothers Limited  isn't of satisfactory  quality.
background 
In September 2018 Mr M acquired  a used car via a three  year conditional sale 
agreement.  The car was nine years old and had a mileage of around 116,000. Mr M 
bought the car via an online application;  it was advertised as being in good  condition.
Mr M says that within a few days he experienced problems with the car in that one of the 
headlights developed  condensation when  it rained, there was a chip in the windscreen, 
the rear brake made a noise, there was a rattle from the exhaust, there was paint residue 
in the petrol cap indicating the car had been  re-sprayed and the engine management  light 
("EML" ) illuminated on the dashboard. He contacted the dealership  and was asked to 
take the car in. Mr M declined as he was concerned the car wasn't  safe to drive.
Mr M complained to Close Brothers and it was agreed for Mr M to take the car to a local  
manufacturer's approved  garage. The garage  conducted a health-check on the car and 
recommended that the inlet manifold  should be removed  and inspected and if no damage  
was found  to perform  a decoke to remove the carboned soot.  The garage also recorded 
that the fault code  stored  in the car (which was for the particulate filter) was last recorded 
prior to Mr M acquiring the car.
Mr M says that the dealership also accepted there had been are-spray  for cosmetic 
reasons  but he wasn't  provided with this information before he raised it and this was after 
he'd taken  the car.
Close Brothers agreed to have the car independently inspected.  The independent 
engineer reported that they were unable to find a fault with the car and the EML wasn't  
illuminated on the dashboard. The engineer said that there  was a fault code shown on a 
diagnostic printout  for the "air/mass  airflow" but said this may be a historic code within  
the ECU  memory.
Close Brothers didn't uphold Mr M's complaint as no fault with the car had been 
identified.
Mr M disagreed  with the independent engineers findings and the decision by Close 
Brothers  and so complained to this service.  He said faults had been  identified with the 
car by the manufacturers garage  and provided  an estimate for the necessary repairs 
which included an oil leak from the gearbox,  DPF flexi damage, rear shock  absorbers  
leaking and a rear brake  calliper missing.  The cost of all the repairs  was over £1000.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that Mr M's complaint should be upheld.  She said 
under  the Consumers Rights Act 2015  the car must be of satisfactory quality. When 
deciding what  is of satisfactory quality things  like the age, mileage and price paid for the 
car are taken into account. As the car was used and had covered a large number of 
miles then issues of wear  and tear would  reasonably be expected and this wouldn't 
mean the car wasn't of satisfactory  quality.
Ref: DRN07578142Our adjudicator said that although faults had been  identified  with the car they weren't  
unreasonable given its age and mileage.  She didn't think it had been of unsatisfactory 
quality  at the point of sale.
Mr M disagreed  with our adjudicator's view. He said the car had multiple and dangerous  
faults as found  by the manufacturer's garage's inspection.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint  has been  passed to me. I issued  a 
provisional  decision  along  the following  lines.
Mr M said the car, although described as being  in good condition, had a number of 
faults.  He accepted as a used car with a high mileage that there would be issues  with 
wear and tear but said that there was an unresolved engine  fault which  had been there 
since he took the car.
Mr M said that when  he was driving  on the motorway the car lost power and the EML  
illuminated. He also said this was an intermittent problem that happened  after the car 
had been used for a while and the engine had heated up. He said that the reason the 
issue  wasn't experienced by the independent  engineer was because he hadn't  driven the 
car far enough during the test drive.  Mr M provided a photo of the EML illuminated.
Mr M said that the EML illuminating wasn't a sign of wear and tear but an inherent fault 
with the engine that required investigation.  He said Close Brothers had failed to look into 
the manufacturer's approved garage's recommendation that the manifold be investigated.
Mr M said he believed  the car to be unsafe  and therefore it wasn't  of satisfactory condition 
when  hed acquired it. Mr M said he had only driven around 1000 miles in the car.
I'd seen that Mr M had raised issues with the car within a few days  of acquiring  it and 
that it was looked  at by a local manufacturer's approved  garage within  the first 30 days.  It 
was this inspection that had raised  the need  for the inlet manifold  to be inspected  for 
either cleaning  or repairs. Close Brothers had then arranged for the car to be 
independently inspected.
The independent  engineer found  that the car ran as expected and couldnt find any faults. 
The engineer  said that all the fluid levels were correct and that no warning  lights  were 
illuminated  on the dashboard.  There had been no loss of power when driving.
As set above a car must be of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale and when  
considering if something was satisfactory then account was taken of the age, mileage, 
price paid. I thought a reasonable person would  have  expected a car of this age and 
mileage to require repairs  from wear  and tear. And I thought the issues  with the 
headlight, windscreen  chip and the fact the car had had a cosmetic respray wouldn't  
mean it wasn't  of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Mr M said the biggest concern  for him was the EML illuminating and the car losing 
power.  The garage had identified a number of potential reasons why the car might do 
this, including  issues with the manifold and the air/mass airflow error. However,  the 
independent engineer  said he hadnt experienced any issues  with the car.
Ref: DRN07578143Mr M had provided  invoices and an estimate from the garage about  the repairs the car 
required. While I appreciated these didn't set out what tests had been conducted by the 
garage, in respect  of the manifold it did set out that "sooting" was found. The build up of 
soot had led me to think this was a longer  term issue.  The number of repairs identified  
meant the cost of fixing the car was in excess of £1,500.
Looking at the evidence  I thought  that it was more likely than not the car had more  faults 
than would have been expected by a reasonable person taking into account  its age and 
the mileage.  It wasn't disputed that the car was advertised as being  in good condition 
and I thought  it was reasonable to think this meant that the car may have minor issues  
but not the number and nature of all the repairs that had been identified  by the garage.
So although the independent engineer  hadnt found any fault with the car when he looked 
at it I was satisfied by the evidence from the garage that the faults were present at the 
point of sale.  I thought  the limited test drive simply hadnt revealed them.
Mr M had been clear that hed wanted  to cancel  the agreement  and return  the car within  
the first 30 days of the agreement due to its faults. And I thought he was entitled to do so 
in light of the number of faults  that had been revealed. Mr M hadn't used the car very 
much as he was concerned about  its safety  with the EML illuminating so he hadn't 
added to the wear  and tear of any of the parts.
I was therefore intending  to uphold Mr M's complaint as I hadnt thought the car was of 
satisfactory  quality  at the point of sale. I'd seen Mr M no longer had the car as he hadnt 
been able to maintain  his payments  under the agreement so to resolve  this complaint I 
asked Close  Brothers to do the following:
Cancel the agreement if not already done  so with nothing further to pay.
Remove this agreement together with any adverse information  from Mr M's credit file.
Reimburse Mr M his deposit of £495 plus interest.
Reimburse Mr M any payments hed made  under the agreement as he hadnt been  
able to use the car.
Mr M has agreed with my provisional view but Close Brothers has disagreed. It says that its 
concerned I have relied on a photo  of the EML being illuminated on the dashboard and on 
Mr Ms comments about the faults  occurred when the car gets warm. Close Brothers  say that 
the independent engineer drove the car for 12 miles when undertaking the test drive  and this 
would have been sufficient for a fault to become evident. It says there is no evidence  the 
manufacturers approved  garage undertook any extensive road tests when it had 
investigated the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the photo of the EML being  illuminated  isnt dated and that I dont have details  
of any test drives carried out by the manufacturers approved garage but I still find the 
evidence persuasive  that its more likely than not that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale.
Ref: DRN07578144This is because Mr M said that the issue with the EML illuminating and the car losing power was 
an intermittent problem  that occurred when the cars  engine became hot through use. This 
meant it wouldnt happen every time the car was driven or when the cars engine was warm.
 I think that issues that arise intermittently  can be difficult to replicate especially if the car is 
taken for only one test drive of 12 miles which is about a 20 minute  drive.  So I dont think the 
fault free test drive by the independent engineer in these  circumstances is enough  for me to 
say the problem didnt exist with the car particularly when also looking at the findings of the 
manufacturers approved  garage after it had inspected the car.
Ive seen that the manufacturers approved garage found a number of issues with the car 
and said that repairs of around  £1,000  were  required. There  was also the issue of the 
sooting found  in the manifold which appeared to indicate a longer term issue.
So I havent changed my view and Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im asking  Close 
Brothers to do the following:
Cancel the agreement if not already done  so with nothing further to pay.
Remove this agreement together with any adverse information  from Mr M's credit file.
Reimburse Mr M his deposit of £495 plus interest  at the rate of 8% per year simple  
from the date of payment  until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M any payments hes made under the agreement  as he has not been  
able to use the car.
my final decision
As set out above Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint  and Im asking  Close Brothers Limited  to 
do the following:
Cancel the agreement if not already done  so with nothing further to pay.
Remove this agreement together with any adverse information  from Mr M's credit file.
Reimburse Mr M his deposit of £495 plus interest  at the rate of 8% per year simple  
from the date of payment  until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M any payments hes made under the agreement  as he has not 
been  able to use the car
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0757814