K822xcomplaint
Mr E complained because  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) lost the deeds to his 
property. This meant he incurred costs, and the sale of his property was delayed by several 
months.
 
background 
In November 2017, Mr E agreed to sell his property for £128,500,  and his solicitor requested 
his deeds from RBS. RBS didnt provide them, and despite chasing, it wasnt until 11 
January 2018  that RBS replied to Mr E.
In this letter, RBS acknowledged that it had held Mr Es deeds,  but said it couldnt now locate  
them. It apologised and agreed with Mr Es complaint. RBS said that it was still establishing 
whether the deeds were available electronically. If they werent, the bank would reimburse 
reasonable costs  which  Mr Es solicitor incurred in obtaining new deeds. RBS said it would 
contact Mr E again when  it had more information.  It also said it had sent a gift to apologise, 
especially as Mr E had had ill-health during the wait. Mr E never received the gift.
On 22 January, RBS said it hadnt been  able to obtain electronic copies of Mr Es deeds, so 
it would  reimburse any reasonable costs in the reinstatement of these  deeds.  Mr Es solicitor 
told RBS that these costs  totalled £770  and RBS sent a cheque to the solicitor  on 13 
February. Mr Es solicitor  needed RBS to complete supporting documents for the Land  
Registry about the circumstances of the lost deeds. On 28 February, RBS said it couldnt  do 
that, because  the form contained some information it didnt know  about. The bank sent a 
different form of document about the loss, and returned this to Mr Es solicitor on 7 March.
 Mr E was then able to exchange contracts by 21 March. But hed had to reduce the 
purchase price by £3,500, to £125,000, because of pressure from his buyer, who had been 
losing rental  income  because of the delays.  
Mr Es solicitor  wrote to RBS on 21 March, saying that it was putting RBS on notice about Mr 
Es monetary losses as a result of RBS losing the deeds. It said the total was £3,656.  This 
comprised the £3,500  reduction in sale price,  costs of an indemnity policy for £138 and £18 
for the buyers  search extension. 
After the sale had gone through, Mr E complained to RBS. He wanted RBS to reimburse  him 
for:
-Indemnity policy £138
-Buyers search extension £18
-Copies of identification for Land  Registry £33
-Phone calls £30
-Various visits to Mr Es RBS branch £72
-Reduction in sale price demanded by buyer, as a result  of lost rent £3,500
-Contribution to buyers  solicitors extra costs £300.
In its final response,  RBS said that it would pay the first five of these  costs  (totalling £291). 
But it wouldnt pay for the reduction in the sale price,  or the buyers solicitors extra costs. 
This was because Mr E had taken this decision himself.
Mr E wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
Ref: DRN08775382The investigator didnt  think that RBS should  pay for the £3,500 by which Mr E had reduced 
the price,  or for the £300 hed contributed to his buyers solicitor.  He said this was because  
house prices change,  and Mr E or his solicitor could  have  refused to contribute to the buyers  
legal costs. But he did think  that RBS had caused  avoidable delays, both in trying to find the 
deeds and when supporting documents for the Land  Registry  were needed, to reconstitute  
the deeds. So he considered RBS should  pay Mr E the five costs Ive listed  above, plus £400 
compensation for the trouble which the delays caused.
RBS agreed to do this. But Mr E wasnt satisfied. He said that he appreciated things can go 
astray, but he felt RBS should have  had procedures in place to deal with the supporting  
documents, and should have dealt with it without undue delays. He pointed  out that in order 
to save the house sale,  hed had to accept the price reduction of £3,500. This represented 
what his buyer had lost in rental income.  He offered to accept half of the £3,500, plus the 
other costs. Mr E said he had health issues and wanted to resolve this without any further  
stress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find that Mr E had poor service from RBS. His solicitor asked for his deeds in November 
2017, and it wasnt  until 11 January  2018 that RBS told him it couldnt find them.  Even then, 
RBS didnt give a full picture, because it hadnt investigated whether the deeds  were 
available electronically.  
And once  RBS acknowledged  on 22 January that there were no electronic records  available,  
and had agreed to pay reasonable costs  for reconstituting the deeds, there were then further 
procedural delays. This meant that Mr Es solicitor couldnt exchange contracts until mid 
March 2018.
So I find that there were  considerable delays  by RBS. I consider  its right that RBS should 
have paid Mr Es solicitors costs of £770 for reconstituting  the lost deeds. Its paid this. I also 
consider it should  pay for the other unavoidable costs which Mr E has set out:
-Indemnity policy £138
-Buyers search extension £18
-Copies of identification for Land  Registry £33
-Phone calls £30
-Various visits to Mr Es RBS branch £72
RBS has agreed to pay for these.
RBS hasnt agreed to pay for the £3,500 by which Mr E reduced his property price, nor the 
£300 he contributed to his buyers legal  costs. Ive thought carefully about this. I recognise  
that Mr E would have  been under significant pressure from his buyer, when there  had been  a 
delay of around four months  from the sale being  agreed,  to Mr Es solicitor finalising the 
reconstitution of the deeds with the Land  Registry.  Its hard to see how this delay could have 
been avoided,  given that the deeds  were  missing. 
On the other hand, Mr E hasnt provided any contemporaneous correspondence between  his 
solicitor and his buyers solicitor, confirming the change in price and the reason for it. Mr E 
didnt have to reduce  the price if his buyer  had threatened to drop out. He could have put it 
back on the market.  And if Mr E feels that hed have got a lower offer because property 
Ref: DRN08775383prices had dropped  over these four months,  hed need to have provided evidence of this 
from an independent source. . And I also dont have evidence about  other  matters   for 
example any survey might have  raised questions which might have caused a buyer  to 
haggle about the price. 
So I dont  have the evidence to show that the £3,500  price  reduction and £300 contribution 
to the buyers  legal costs, were caused  solely by RBSs failings about the deeds. I 
appreciate it would have been  a difficult choice, but it was ultimately  Mr Es choice to go 
ahead on this basis. So Im not able to order the bank to reimburse  Mr Es costs  for these.
Its clear,  however, that RBSs loss of the deeds, its delay in accepting  this, and its delays in 
dealing with paperwork about the reconstitution, cause Mr E a great deal of stress  and 
anxiety and inconvenience. So I consider £400 is a fair and reasonable sum for RBS to pay 
to recognise the upset  it caused Mr E. This is in addition to the £770  its paid the solicitor  for 
reconstituting the deeds, and the £291  of costs  listed  above. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to 
pay Mr E:
-£400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience which  its loss of his deeds,  
and subsequent related delays, caused  Mr E; and 
-£291 for: Indemnity policy; extending buyers  searches; Land Registry identity 
documents; phone  calls and branch visits. Its not clear to me whether or not RBS 
has already paid any of these, so the figure should  be adjusted accordingly if it has 
paid any part of these.
This is in addition to the £770  which the bank has paid Mr Es solicitor, which I find was fair 
and reasonable.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0877538