K820x#14complaint
Ms O says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms O bought  the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms O for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject  to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £100 a month towards Ms Os mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £5.06 a month. 
At the time,  Ms O was employed as a salesperson.  She has told us she was not entitled to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying her mortgage should she be 
unable to work. But I think its likely she would have at least  been  entitled to statutory sick 
pay. Ms O has said she had a medical condition at the time of the sale.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Ms Os representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Os representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms O wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Os 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Ms O about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms O and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms O received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN02216032Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen the adjudicators 
opinion and were  given the opportunity to provide  their responses.  Ms O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Os. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Os complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
Ref: DRN02216033other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Os case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Ms Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Ms O with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Ms O sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms O, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms O suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms O and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Ms O know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN02216034Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  form completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there is a box to sign if PPI is wanted.  Ms O has 
signed in the box to show she wanted  the cover. She has also signed the overall  application 
which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered. If Ms O didnt want  to 
take out the cover she could have not signed in the box.
Ive also seen a separate  PPI application form was completed and has been signed by 
Ms O. This detailed information  such as the monthly benefit and cost of the premium, along 
with recording responses to some questions about her employment  and health.  As before, if 
Ms O didnt want the cover, she could have left the form blank.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms O knew  the policy was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Ms O disagrees. Looking at what  Halifax 
says happened  when it sold Ms O the PPI, I think that it did provide advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Ms O with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
Looking at the PPI application form which was completed, it would suggest Halifax took 
some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms O. On the 
form it asks some information about her employment status and if she had any medical 
conditions. The adviser would have had some  limited information about  Ms Os financial 
circumstances from the mortgage application,  but there is no specific  evidence  to show the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Ms O had a need for the policy  by asking questions  
about her wider circumstances such as existing means. So I dont think it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Ms O given  her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms O, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms O met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Ms O had a need for the policy   Ms O would not have  received  sick pay (or at most  
statutory sick pay) if she was unable to work due to illness, her redundancy benefits 
are likely to be limited  and she didnt have any savings she could fall back on. The 
policy would have  helped  Ms O manage the consequences if she was unable to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms O. 
Ref: DRN02216035-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms O. There was 
nothing about  Ms Os employment  or occupation  which would have made it difficult 
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Ms O has told us she had 
an episode of depression and anxiety  in 1987  and back  problems in 1990, which 
were all before the sale. But from what she has told us about these conditions I dont 
think it means the policy wasnt suitable  for her. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Ms Os 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Ms O sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms O was given  a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if they were 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because the mortgage  application described the cover  as Accident, 
sickness and unemployment insurance  and the separate PPI application included 
information about the premium and monthly benefit.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Ms O agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms O Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Ms O all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Os representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Os. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Os representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN02216036-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms O about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Os representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms O has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Ms O? To what extent  did Ms O suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Ms O. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms O suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms O would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Ms O, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms O has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Ms O would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Ms O says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms O had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted  
that product.  But she made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what 
she thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Os circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Ref: DRN02216037As Ive also already explained, the information Ms O was given about the cost and benefit  
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms O thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Ms O knew  about or should  have known about or for which  she had received 
advice, treatment or counselling during the 12 months prior to the start date of the 
policy if that condition  recurred within 24 months of that date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms O 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms O be unable  to 
do her own job, any similar  job or any paid work which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms O pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms O from taking  out the policy.  
The evidence about Ms Os circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Ms O says she had medical  conditions  when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had she needed time off 
work because of these  conditions,  I dont think better information  about this exclusion would 
have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because these episodes  of illness occurred  many  
years before she took out the PPI and Ms O doesnt  appear to have had any ongoing 
treatment. So I dont  think Ms O would have thought she would  have needed to take time off 
work (for at least 30 days as required by the policy) and need to make  a claim as a result of 
this.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms O might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms O 
from taking out the policy,  Ms O, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN02216038If Ms O had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do her job, any 
similar job or any paid work which, in the insurers  view, her experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  she 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given her pause for thought  although its 
possible she may not have been  overly concerned given that if Ms O was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Ms O that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for, but she 
had little, or very limited, other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms O would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms O be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  her home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms O would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Ms O was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not Ms O 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Os representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms O would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms O 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms O believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN02216039Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms O in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Ms O compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms O thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Ms O, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Os representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms O and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms O in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN022160310my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019..
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0221603