K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement  with 
PCF Bank Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr W under a conditional sale agreement  with PCF Bank that he 
electronically signed in December 2017. He says that there  were  some issues with the car 
which were repaired by a manufacturers dealer but that the issues  have persisted. He 
complained to PCF Bank about the issues with the car in February 2019. It arranged for the 
car to be inspected by an independent expert and said that the liability for the issues  would  
be with the manufacturer and not the dealer. He wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She thought that PCF 
Bank should investigate and repair the outstanding issues found in the inspection report and 
that it should refund Mr W the £112.94 that hed paid for a sunroof repair  and pay him £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  that hed been caused.  
But Mr W part-exchanged the car before it was repaired and said that he should receive a 
refund of some of his monthly repayments  due the issues that he had with the leaking roof 
and the cars  lights. The investigator said that shes seen no evidence  of an issue  with the 
cars lights so she said that PCF Bank should make  the refund and pay the compensation 
that shed previously recommended.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that:
the car had a known manufacturing issue - water leaking from sunroof;
that issue was the cause  of around £4,000 worth of control unit damage;
following the control unit repairs further  electrical issues were logged on the cars 
system;
the leak progressed  to the point  that water  was dripping into the car when it was 
raining;
when the car was inspected there  were  electrical  issues  noted;
the sat-nav is part of the centre  console that controls  many  of the other car features;
the car had a number of intermittent issues following the initial  attempted repair;
the manufacturers dealer acknowledged  the intermittent issues  when  it had the 
sunroof repaired;
the car cost him almost £50,000  and its fair to expect problem free motoring;
the car wasnt safe to drive at night or in wet conditions because  of issues with both 
the lights and wipers which he believes were a result of the water ingress; and
he had to pay £8,000 to exit the agreement and had already paid around £15,000 for 
the car so is in a significantly worse financial position due to PCF Banks poor 
handling of his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03994122PCF Bank, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to Mr W. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality at that time 
will depend  on a number  of factors,  including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to him was nearly two years  old, had been 
driven for 46,401 miles and had a price of £47,995. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability 
which means that the components within the car must be durable  and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.  
Mr W complained  to PCF Bank about issues with the car in February 2019. He arranged for 
it to be inspected in March 2019  and PCF Bank  arranged for the car to be inspected  by an 
independent expert  in April 2019. The cars  mileage at that time was recorded  as 63,104  
so 16,703 miles more  than when the car was supplied to Mr W in December 2017.
The inspection report said that there  were fault codes still stored in the cars system,  that the 
sat-nav was inoperative which  required  further attention and a sunroof seal had come  adrift.  
It said that the car generally performed and handled as expected  without concern during a 
road test and that the issues wouldnt have been present when the car was supplied  to 
Mr W.
The investigator recommended  that PCF Bank  should arrange for the issues  identified in the 
report to be repaired and that it should  refund to Mr W the money  that hed paid for a sunroof  
repair and pay him £200  compensation. But Mr W part-exchanged the car before it was 
repaired  and he says that he had to pay £8,000  to exit the agreement  and that hed paid 
about £15,000 for the car.
Mr W was able to use the car to drive more than 16,000 miles in about 16 months. The 
inspection report identified issues with the car but said that it generally performed and 
handled as expected and there was no mention of issues with the cars  lights  or wipers.  It 
said that the issue with the sat-nav  might  be completely separate to the other  issues  with the 
car and it recommended  further investigation. But that didnt happen because  Mr W part-
exchanged the car.
There have clearly been some issues with the car and I can understand Mr Ws 
disappointment and frustration about that. Hes clearly suffered distress  and inconvenience 
as a result  of those  issues and I agree  with the investigator that compensation of £200 for 
that distress and inconvenience  would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances. I also 
agree that it would be fair and reasonable for PCF Bank to pay £112.94 to Mr W to 
reimburse him for the cost of the sunroof repair.
But Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to 
require PCF Bank to refund to Mr W any of the monthly payments that he made for the car - 
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I order  
PCF Bank Limited to:
1.Pay £200 to Mr W to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
2.Pay £112.94 to Mr W to reimburse him for the cost of the sunroof repair.
Ref: DRN03994123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0399412