K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss B took out a credit  card with Barclays in 2000. At the same time she bought a PPI 
policy which  wouldve helped cover her repayments  for up to 12 months at a time if she 
couldnt work. 
Miss B says it was added without her knowledge or consent. She says she didnt need the 
cover.
The adjudicator thought  that Miss Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss B disagrees, so 
her case  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive come  to this decision.
Miss B selected the PPI when she completed a postal application for a credit card.  The 
application form made it clear that she had a choice  about it. She chose to take it by placing  
a tick in a box and she signed  the form.
Im satisfied Miss B bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it, even though  
understandably  she doesnt  remember this now, many years  later.
Barclays didnt give Miss B a personal  recommendation to buy the PPI, but it still had to 
make sure it gave her enough information so she could make an informed  decision about  
whether she took it. It seems likely  that Barclays didnt give Miss B enough information at the 
time of sale.  For example,  there  was no information about how much the policy  would cost,  
or any of the exclusions. 
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Miss Bs complaint. I have to consider 
whether Miss B wouldve  acted differently and not bought the policy if shed  had all the 
information she needed. Looking at Miss Bs circumstances at the time I dont think Miss B 
wouldve acted differently. 
Miss B was eligible for the cover  and doesnt seem  to have  been  affected by any terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances. I think  Miss B 
wouldve at least understood that the PPI would help cover her repayments if she couldnt 
work. Miss B chose to take the cover  so I think she considered that she had some  need for 
it. And I havent seen  anything to suggest that it was unaffordable for her at the time.
So I dont  think Miss B lost out because of anything  Barclays  did wrong. 
Ref: DRN01325102my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint so it follows that Barclays  Bank  plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
S Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0132510