K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited  unfairly avoided his motor 
insurance policy, treating  it as if it had never  existed,  in response to a malicious call that said 
hed had an accident. Mr A would like his policy to be reinstated.
background
Mr As broker arranged  for Markerstudy  to take over his policy from another insurer  that 
stopped trading, on the same terms and without requiring a new proposal. 
Mr A said an unknown  person called  his broker and reported him for an accident on a 
roundabout and said his no claims bonus was false. Mr A said this wasnt  him and the 
accident didnt  happen. Mr A did report a separate accident. He said its unfair  that 
Markerstudy avoided  his insurance  policy  and wont deal with his claim.
Markerstudy said it avoided Mr As policy for deliberate misrepresentation when it discovered 
his proof  of no claims bonus was false.  The letter which purported to be from Mr As previous 
broker said he was entitled to four years no claims discount. But he was actually not entitled  
to any. Markerstudy  said it wouldnt have offered  Mr A a policy had it known about Mr As 
position. And as it considered this to be deliberate  it wouldnt be returning  Mr As premium.   
Markerstudy also said it had no record of an accident on a roundabout.
Markerstudy also questioned the information  Mr A provided about  his previous employment 
and previous accident claims when he took out the policy. 
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld  saying  in Mr As call to his 
broker he had admitted his no claims bonus was false. The investigator said hed checked  
Mr As entitlement, and he had no no claims bonus. He said Markerstudy  was entitled to 
avoid his policy. He said Markerstudy had spoken  to Mr A about an accident  hed reported, 
not an accident reported by an unknown person.
Mr A said hed bought  his no claims bonus letter online and thought it related to the number 
of years hed been driving, but he said he hadnt made the call stating his no claims bonus  
was false. He said Markerstudy  was just looking for a reason not to deal with his claim and 
he requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr A has raised a complaint about  his 
broker and this is being considered separately by our service.
Markerstudy assumed  the role of Mr As original insurer and his broker  said it accepted  his 
insurance risk on the same basis. My role here is to decide whether Markerstudy  was 
entitled to avoid Mr As policy and not pay his claim for the accident  he reported. In reviewing 
this complaint, Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the obligations of a consumer  when entering  into an 
insurance contract and the remedies available to an insurer if a consumer fails to fulfil their 
obligations if it can show they made  what the Act describes as a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN09726132Under CIDRA it is for Markerstudy to show Mr As representation was a qualifying  
misrepresentation by showing  he failed to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation when he took out his policy.  It also needs  to show  it wouldnt have offered 
him cover at all if he hadnt made the misrepresentation, or it would have done so on 
different terms. Once its shown it was a qualifying misrepresentation what  its entitled  to do 
depends on whether the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  or careless.  
Ive looked at the question  Mr A was asked  when he took out his policy.  He was asked to 
state what no claims bonus he held. He told the broker he didnt have a no claims bonus, but 
later provided a letter which stated that he had four years no claims bonus.  It would appear 
that his broker  simply passed Mr As letter to the insurer. I can see that Mr As information  
about his no claims bonus  led to a reduction of the premium he was charged for the policy.
Mr A said it wasnt him on a call to his broker where his no claims bonus letter is described 
as false. I have listened to the call and cant be certain whether or not Mr A made this call to 
the broker, but theres no mention of an accident  on a roundabout.  However,  I dont think  this 
matters in deciding  if there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Markerstudy needs to show first of all that by answering this question in the way he did Mr A 
failed to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. I think  Markerstudy  has 
shown that Mr A failed  to take reasonable care. I say this because one of the considerations 
under CIDRA is how clear  the question the consumer was asked was. Mr A was asked a 
clear question about his no claims bonus and he appears to have answered this accurately 
during the call. Afterwards he contradicted this with a letter that carried  false  information  
about his entitlement. 
Markerstudy has shown that it wouldnt have offered Mr A a policy on the terms he received 
had it known he had no entitlement to a no claims bonus. In my view this means that 
Markerstudy has shown there  was a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA says a qualifying  misrepresentation  can be considered as careless, deliberate or 
reckless. In this case Markerstudy  has indicated  Mr A made his misrepresentation 
deliberately. It is for Markerstudy to demonstrate this. CIDRA defines the qualifying 
misrepresentation as either deliberate or reckless  if a consumer:
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or
misleading, and
(b) knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Having carefully considered what Mr A and Markerstudy have told us, Im persuaded 
Markerstudy has acted fairly  in treating the misrepresentation in this way. I say this because  
Mr A has told us he thought the information  in the no claims bonus letter related to the 
amount of time hed held a licence,  but hed answered accurately on the inception call to the 
broker saying this was going to be the first policy in his own right and so he wouldnt be 
entitled to a no claims bonus.  Also the circumstances in which he obtained the no claims 
bonus letter  - he said he bought it online - make it hard to accept that he didnt know  he was 
providing false information to his broker and onwards to the insurer.
From the communications Ive seen  I think that Mr A appreciated what he was being asked 
to confirm about his no claims bonus and Im persuaded he knew the information he gave 
was untrue. And this means in my view that Markerstudy has shown he made a deliberate 
Ref: DRN09726133misrepresentation and so it was entitled to avoid the policy,  refuse his claim and retain all 
premiums paid. This is what Markerstudy  has done  and Im satisfied it has acted fairly  and 
reasonably and in line with the relevant law.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0972613