K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that esure Insurance Limited  disposed of her car without  her permission 
after a claim on her motor insurance  policy. She wants compensation for her inconvenience.
background
Miss Hs car was declared  beyond economical  repair following an accident.  esure  said it was 
a total loss but Miss H was unhappy with the settlement  it offered. But esure then disposed 
of Miss Hs car without  telling her. Miss H was also unhappy with other  aspects of the 
service provided by esure.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought esure was 
entitled to dispose of Miss Hs car under the policy terms  and conditions  in the case of it 
being a total loss. But she thought that as Miss H hadnt accepted  its settlement offer it 
should have explained to Miss H that it was disposing  of the car. She thought  esure should 
pay Miss H £150 compensation for the inconvenience this caused her.
Miss H replied that she wanted further concerns about the level of service she said esure 
provided taken into consideration in calculating the amount of compensation. She thought it 
should pay her £300.  esure replied that it had acted correctly according to the policy terms 
and conditions. It said Miss H hadnt told it that she wanted to retain the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss H has raised a separate complaint about the valuation esure placed on 
her car. I cant consider that here and so I will consider just Miss Hs concerns about esure 
disposing of her car and the level of service  provided.
esure said Miss H told it she didnt want her car written off. But it said when its total loss was 
discussed she didnt  say she wanted to keep the car. Miss H said the car was disposed of 
without her consent and before a settlement had been agreed.  
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Miss Hs policy says that esure  has total discretion over the handling her 
claim. It also says that if it settles  her claim as total loss her car will become its property. But 
I think Miss H hadnt accepted esures offer when it disposed of her car. 
I think that when  a car is deemed a total loss under a motor insurance policy, as Miss Hs car 
was, esure  becomes the owner  of the salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of 
the cars  full market  value. 
I havent seen  evidence that Miss H told esure  she wanted to retain and repair her car. But I 
think she was clear  that she didnt want it written  off. So I think  it would have been fair and 
reasonable for esure  to explain  the consequences  of having her car declared  a total loss. 
Ref: DRN00865492As it turned out, Miss H found out that her car had been sold when a friend told her the car 
had been taken away on a truck. I think that would  have  been upsetting for Miss H. I agree  
with the investigator  that esure  should pay Miss H £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset this caused her. I can see that Miss H also wanted her other  concerns  taken  into 
account. But I havent seen that these had an impact on her that warrants  further 
compensation.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0086549