K821x#15complaint
Mr L says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly  lent to him. Mr L says this is because he 
was using the loans for everyday essential  living costs and he also had other short-term 
loans outstanding with other lenders at the time.
background
This complaint is about 3 payday loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr L between September 
2013 and December 2013.  Mr Ls borrowing history  is set out in the table below.
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 18/09/2013 27/09/2013 1 £100.00 £134.95
2 08/10/2013 27/11/2013 1 £150.00 £202.42
3 13/12/2013 outstanding 1 £150.00 £202.42
When it provided payday loan 2, although payable within 1 month, the payment for this loan 
was rolled over in October and November. Loan  3 remains  outstanding  and I understand 
these sums  have been sold to a third party.
Mr L has told us when  he took out the loan, he had outstanding  payday  loans with other 
lenders and given the reasons for taking out the loan it was probable that he wouldnt be 
able to repay the loan without undue difficulty.
Uncle Buck  said it carried  out credit  and affordability  checks  at the time before approving the 
loans and these  checks would have confirmed that each of the loans  was affordable  at the 
time. But it said it would partly uphold Mr Ls complaint in respect of loan 3 due to the quick  
succession of borrowing. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think it was unfair  to give Mr L loan 1. But she said that loan 2 
shouldnt have been provided. She also said that Uncle Buck  had offered to put things right 
for loan 3. Mr Ls declared outgoings  exceeded his income when it gave Mr L loan 2.  She 
also said that as Uncle Buck  had already offered  to uphold loan 3, she recommended what  
Uncle Buck  should  do to put things right for loans 2 and 3.
Uncle Buck  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me. It said that removal of the 
negative credit information would give rise to detriment and result in incomplete  and 
inaccurate reporting which goes against reporting  requirements. It also said it could not 
make a decision on what it couldnt see. Following  this response another  adjudicator  said he 
thought this matter  should  also be upheld from loan 2 but for different reasons. He said by 
the time Mr L took out loan 2 he had a number of other short-term  loans. And he said 
although the business hadnt provided  a copy of the results of the checks,  from the 
consumers credit report it showed that Mr L had a number of other payday lending  loans 
outstanding at that time Mr L took out loans 2 and 3. And as Uncle Buck used  the same  
credit reference agency, he thought it more likely have seen that these loans were 
outstanding when it provided  loan 2.
Ref: DRN01801272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Our adjudicator said she didnt think loan 1 should be upheld.  Neither  party had disputed 
that, but Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done so Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint from loan 2.
When Mr L took out loan 2 he already had problems managing  money. Mr L had very little 
spare income and other short-term loans with other  providers. I can see at the time Mr L took 
Ref: DRN01801273out his second loan with Uncle  Buck he had at least five outstanding  short-term loans and 
another high-cost loan as well. I think its more likely that Uncle  Buck would have been 
alerted to this at the time it provided  loans  2 and 3.
So, I think Mr L lost out as a result  of what Uncle Buck did wrong  and Im also upholding the 
complaint about  loan 2. And Uncle Buck should  put things right as Ive set out below.
Uncle Buck  should  also put things right in respect of loan 3 as it has offered to do.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
Uncle Buck shouldnt  have given Mr L loans 2 and 3. 
I understand Uncle Buck has sold the outstanding debt in relation to loan 3. It should buy this 
back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Uncle  Buck is not able to buy 
the debt back,  then it should liaise with the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined 
below.
A) Uncle Buck should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mr L towards  
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded. 
B) Uncle Buck should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Mr L which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally  made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.  
C) Uncle Buck should remove  all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr L as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr L having made 
overpayments then you should refund these overpayments  with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Uncle Buck should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E. 
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal youve 
already written-off.  If this results in a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to Mr L. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Uncle Buck  should  try to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr L. Uncle Buck shouldnt  pursue outstanding balances 
made up of principal it has already written-off. 
E) Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to loans  2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Ls complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Ref: DRN01801274Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0180127