K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains NewDay Ltd wont refund a payment made on his credit  card to a secondary 
ticket selling website  (the Website) for concert tickets.
background
In December 2017, Mr C says he bought two tickets for an event which  was due to take 
place abroad,  in July 2018,  on his credit card. In total, he paid €361.33.
Mr C says soon after completing  the purchase, hed heard negative feedback about the 
Website  in particular,  he heard  he wouldnt be able to gain entry to the event because  it 
wouldnt be his name on the tickets.  And so, he decided to resell the tickets on the Website 
but then later changed his mind and tried to cancel the resell of the tickets. Despite changing 
his mind about the resell, Mr C says he received notification from the Website that the tickets 
had been sold.  Mr C contacted NewDay for help and asked them to dispute the payment. 
NewDay looked into the matter, but they didnt think they could help. They  said they didnt 
feel there was enough  to defend the chargeback. NewDay also reviewed Mr Cs complaint 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA). But they said they didnt think  
there had been  a breach  of contract. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs claim. 
Unhappy with NewDays response, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his concerns. Overall, she didnt think NewDay  had acted unfairly by 
declining Mr Cs request  for a refund.  She explained there wasnt anything  to suggest Mr Cs 
tickets wouldnt allow him into the event and there  also wasnt  enough evidence to suggest  
there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract  by the Website  and so she didnt think 
NewDay needed to do anything else.
Mr C disagreed. He said there  had been a lot of media attention  on the fact that people 
werent being allowed into events if their name wasnt on the tickets.  So, the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about NewDay, as Mr Cs credit card account provider. Its not about the 
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only 
considering whether Mr C authorised NewDay to debit the account  with the value of the 
payment, and whether they should have helped with the dispute  with the Website in any 
other way. 
Mr C accepts he made the transaction for these tickets and he hasnt disputed that he knew  
the amount he was paying, just that the process  of buying the tickets felt pressurised and 
rushed. I appreciate  Mr Cs concerns about  the process, but Im unable to comment  on the 
Websites process. Im only able to look into the actions of NewDay. Taking everything into 
account Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Mr C and correctly applied  
to Mr Cs credit card account with NewDay.
could NewDay challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
Ref: DRN08801362In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant  (as Mr C does 
here), the card issuer (NewDay) can attempt a chargeback.  Generally,  we say its fair for a 
card issuer  to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment  - if theres a reasonable 
prospect of success,  for example where goods  or services arent received, or it appears that 
the payment wasnt properly authorised  by the cardholder. 
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful.  But I dont think NewDay couldve challenged the payment on the 
basis Mr C didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusions Ive already set 
out. 
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he doesnt  feel the tickets he was sold were  valid -
because his name wasnt on the tickets,  he didnt think theyd  be accepted and therefore  he 
wouldnt gain entrance to the event. Additionally, Mr C says as the event was abroad, he 
didnt want to travel a long way with significant  other costs on the off chance he might gain 
entry. Mr C also says he didn't know he was buying  from the Website. Instead, he thought  
he was buying  from an authorised ticket  seller.
NewDay raised a chargeback and whilst  they did so, Mr C says they credited the transaction 
amount to his account. The Website disagreed with the chargeback  and provided  their 
reasons to NewDay. They essentially said they provided the service Mr C paid for. They  also 
explained theyre a ticket  resale platform,  their website shows the company name clearly 
and that there is clear  messaging around what their charges are. NewDay  say they 
considered this and decided  not to pursue the chargeback any further. So, its for this reason 
NewDay re-debited Mr Cs account of the amount.
From the information available  to me, I can see the Website showed they were a ticket 
reselling website. And as Mr C bought tickets from this site, he was on notice  he was buying  
from a ticket reselling website. Ultimately, Mr C bought the tickets but chose not to attend the 
event and instead, attempted to resell  them. So, I dont think  NewDay could have challenged 
the payment on the basis that he didnt  get what he paid for.
Bearing in mind the Websites stance and the information they provided in response  to the 
chargeback claim, I think NewDays position of deciding not to take the chargeback process 
further was fair and reasonable.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA)? 
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how Section 
75 applies  to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mr C has an equal right to claim 
against NewDay as he does against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier if certain conditions are met.
My role isnt to decide NewDays  liability under  Section  75. Instead, as statute requires me 
to, I need  to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such  as 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  For a valid claim under Section 75 there  must  be a 
debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place.  The Websites  terms and conditions  in this 
case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites  
Ref: DRN08801363name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers. 
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does 
provide a service.  And for this they charge buyers  a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website  
says they:
charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service. 
So, in effect,  there  is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr C, NewDay  and the 
Website, albeit  not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee. 
So, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time, 
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, theyre 
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund  if the seller  doesnt fulfil their 
obligations around supplying the tickets. 
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have  a cash price within certain financial limits. Having looked at the 
breakdown of costs  from the email Mr C provided,  I can see the cost for the two tickets was 
€263.70. The Website charged booking (€76.40)  and handling  fees (€5.95) and the 
remainder was tax (€15.28). So, even though the currency displayed  at the time of the 
booking was in Euros (as the event was abroad), Im satisfied the Website  charged less than 
£100 for its services. I say this because even if I add all three  figures up together, it doesnt 
even amount to €100. So, I dont think this case meets the required financial limits to have a 
claim under Section  75. As such I do not have  to consider whether there is a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation here as Section 75 does not cover Mr C for this particular 
transaction.
However, for the sake  of completeness, I will describe my position if this case  had met the 
financial limits. For a successful claim Mr C would need to show a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the Website. I understand Mr C says he didnt believe hed be able to 
gain entry to the event with a ticket that had a different name  on it. So, its for this reason he 
initially made the decision to resell  the tickets on the Website.
For similar reasons  as described earlier, Im not persuaded that there was breach of contract  
or misrepresentation here by the Website.  I appreciate Mr C says there was a lot of 
coverage in the media about  this issue, but I can only look at Mr Cs complaint  and the 
circumstances of his case. Ultimately,  the Website made clear that theyre  a ticket reselling 
website  so its likely  the tickets will be in the sellers name.  The Website  have provided  a 
service (as Ive described) and I am not persuaded they have breached the contract. Nor 
have they misrepresented  that service to Mr C to my mind.
It seems  to me that its possible Mr C is merging the responsibilities of the ticket seller and 
the Website. But the situation here is that they are distinct sets of actions and 
responsibilities. And I can only uphold this complaint against NewDay if they fail in some  way 
or that I am persuaded that the Website has breached or misrepresented  the service they 
provide. But I havent  seen  anything  to persuade me the Website, and hence NewDay,  have 
done anything  wrong here. 
Ref: DRN08801364was there  anything else within the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 that NewDay should have 
considered?
Even though  Ive made the finding  that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75, I 
think Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to this complaint. 
In summary,  Section 56 has the effect of making the Website  the agent of NewDay  during 
the antecedent negotiations  leading up to Mr C entering into a transaction  with them.  But 
essentially, this means  NewDay is responsible for the acts or omissions of the Website in 
relation to transaction. In other words, Newday  has to stand behind the things the Website 
said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process.
For a valid claim  under  Section 56, there  has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place - which  is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However,  unlike 
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the 
impact of Section  56 and whether  NewDay  ought to have considered this in Mr Cs case.
With this in mind, Ive thought about  whether the Website misrepresented the information or 
the tickets which Mr C purchased. Mr C has been consistent  in telling us that he didnt want  
the tickets as he didnt think  hed be able to gain entry to the event,  given it wasnt  his name 
on the tickets. Had Mr C been aware  of this beforehand, he wouldnt have purchased the 
tickets.
The Website  offer a service whereby they provide the guarantee for tickets. Under this 
guarantee, the Website say they will take action  (either by sourcing replacement tickets or in 
some cases,  offering  a refund) if it is proven the tickets  are invalid. The terms on the Website 
itself also confirm that in some instances the original purchaser's name may be printed  on 
the tickets. It also explains the tickets  are valid and that a customers name doesnt need 
match the name printed on the ticket  to gain entry to an event. Having carefully considered  
this, Im not persuaded the Website misrepresented the tickets  to Mr C. Even though  Mr C 
didnt receive the tickets  (as he made the decision to resell  them), on balance,  its likely the 
tickets would have  had a different name to Mr Cs on them.  But as Ive already explained,  it 
was Mr Cs decision not to go to the event.  And I havent seen  anything  which  persuades me 
that the tickets  werent valid.   
I note Mr C has also said he didnt know it was a ticket resale site. Having looked into the 
Website and their terms and conditions, Im not persuaded  this information was 
misrepresented to Mr C. As I think  there are prominent messages on the Website which 
explain that theyre a secondary ticketing marketplace. 
In summary,  while I appreciate this will come  as a disappointment to Mr C, I think  he 
authorised NewDay  to debit his credit  card account  with the value of the transaction  to the 
Website, so I think it was fair for them to do that. I also dont think NewDay acted unfairly in 
the handling of his chargeback claim. Whilst I dont think  the claim meets the financial limits 
under Section 75, Ive explained my reasons why I dont think there  has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation here by the Website.  And lastly, had NewDay  considered 
Mr Cs claim under Section 56, I dont think they wouldve acted unfairly  by declining his 
claim. So, its for these  reasons, I dont  think  I can fairly require NewDay to refund Mr C for 
the tickets.
Ref: DRN08801365my final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0880136