K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her three  current  accounts, 
that each had a fee-free  Vantage bolt-on  product  added, in January 2014.
Ms H says that she felt the Vantage products werent suitable for her circumstances, the 
advice was poor and that she couldve earned  more in interest had she opened accounts 
with other  banks. 
background
Ms H raised a complaint with Lloyds in December 2015. I understand that Lloyds responded 
to Ms H and paid her £50. Ms H responded to Lloyds but then says she didnt hear back. 
Lloyds then paid Ms H £75 for the delay  in responding  to her and then a further £10 to cover  
the cost of postage that Ms H had spent writing  to Lloyds.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she didnt  think that Lloyds had mis-
sold the Vantage  bolt-on  products or acted inappropriately in suggesting Ms H take these 
products out.
Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision on her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont think  the 
Vantage bolt-on products  were mis-sold. And I dont think  that Lloyds did anything  that was 
unreasonable or unfair. I will explain why.
I understand that Ms H had a lump sum of money  and wanted to earn credit interest on this 
amount. Ms H has explained that she attended a meeting with Lloyds where she was told to 
open three fee-free  Classic accounts  that had a free Vantage  bolt-on added  to the 
accounts. The addition  of the Vantage bolt-on meant that, providing  Ms H paid in £1,000  and 
kept the account in a credit balance,  shed receive a tiered level of interest,  depending  on 
how much  was kept in the account.
Looking at Ms Hs bank statements, I can see that the accounts were  kept in a credit 
balance. And I can see that Ms H set up a number of standing  orders to ensure  that £1,000 
was being credited to each account and I can see that, to start off with, Ms H was earning  
monthly credit interest on these accounts.
Therefore I cannot agree  with Ms H that the three accounts were somehow mis-sold,  as they 
were helping her to earn interest on her money,  as she had requested in her meeting  with 
Lloyds. 
Ms H has said that she couldve earned  more  interest on her money with other banks. Whilst 
that may be the case, I dont think that means  Lloyds  was acting inappropriately in 
suggesting she open the three Classic Vantage accounts. I say this because Lloyds could 
only reasonably  be expected to discuss the products it offers with her. In other  words,  if Ms 
H felt that she couldve  obtained better interest rates elsewhere,  it was up to her to shop  
around and decide whether she wanted to bank with Lloyds or choose to bank  elsewhere.
Ref: DRN02775642Lloyds has explained  that it made changes to the Vantage bolt-on that came into effect on 2 
July 2014. It says that it changed the criteria  on the Vantage bolt-on, so that Ms H also had 
to have two direct debits  on her accounts, to continue to receive the credit  interest on her 
accounts. I cant see that Ms H did this, which explains why she was no longer earning credit  
interest on her accounts from July 2014.
Although Ms H may be dissatisfied  with the changes made, Lloyds  was entitled to make  
such changes - providing it gave notice  to the affected account holders. Lloyds says it wrote 
to the affected  account holders, including Ms H, in April and May 2014 to explain the 
changes that were being implemented. And Ive seen nothing  from either  Ms H or Lloyds to 
suggest that Ms H didnt  receive the notifications of the changes that were being made to the 
Vantage bolt-on.
I do understand Ms Hs frustration that she was no longer  able to receive  the credit interest 
that she was initially  earning. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Lloyds did anything  
wrong or acted inappropriately  in either  suggesting  she open the current  accounts with the 
Vantage feature added,  or when it made changes to the criteria on the Vantage product. 
Because of this, I do not uphold this complaint.  As such, Lloyds is not required to pay Ms H 
anything more, than what it has already  done, in relation  to this complaint.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0277564