K821x#15complaint
Ms M has complained about the Society  of Lloyds  (Lloyds) service  following a claim on her 
travel insurance policy.
Reference to the Lloyds  includes  its agents.
background
Ms M was abroad when she fell and seriously  injured her leg. She required rescue and 
surgery abroad. Lloyds arranged  to bring  her home  under  the terms of her policy.
Ms M was unhappy with the arrangements Lloyds made. She said that as a result she 
suffered more than was necessary during the journey home.  Lloyds acknowledged  that not 
everything had gone  as smoothly as it could  have done. So it offered her £100 
compensation for the impact  of that. 
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds should  increase the 
compensation to £250. Ms M didn't  think that went far enough; so her complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it 
and my award will be the same as the adjudicators recommendation. 
In bringing this complaint Ms Ms made  a number  of points and I've considered everything 
shes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what  I see as being  the key 
outstanding points.
Having read all the evidence its clear - as Lloyds has acknowledged - that not everything  
went as smoothly as it could have  done. In particular Lloyds accepted that its 
communication with Ms M at the outset could have  improved. And if that had happened  its 
possible, although not certain, that some of the discomfort Ms M later experienced could 
have been avoided, as Lloyds might  have realised that the timetable was less important to 
Ms M than it thought. And in those circumstances it could have relaxed the timetable to bring 
Ms M home  and made different arrangements that might have suited  her better.
As it was the journey was very long, even  for someone who hadn't suffered the painful injury  
Ms M was nursing. And she clearly  ran into problems that made an already difficult journey 
even worse. That said it seems some of the problems Ms M encountered were outside of 
Lloyds control, for example seating arrangements on the aircraft which were far from ideal. 
But I think Lloyds could  have done more to make the journey easier. And clearer  
communication with some  of the outside  agencies, for example the airline providing the last 
leg of her flights, might have reduced  Ms Ms discomfort. But because  that didn't  happen  
Ms M was undoubtedly caused some additional  distress that might otherwise have been 
avoided. 
As I've said above, even without the additional problems Ms M encountered  her journey was 
likely to be a difficult one. So even  if things had gone smoothly, given her painful injury,  
shed have most likely suffered some distress and inconvenience. But, she did have 
Ref: DRN06539252additional discomfort. So I think Lloyds should pay compensation.  And Im satisfied that 
£250 is reasonable to address Ms Ms additional distress and inconvenience.  
I note that Ms M doesn't think this is enough.  But I need to be clear that in arriving at that 
amount I've thought about the impact on Ms M as a result of the areas where  Lloyds could 
have done better. And I've noted  that some  of the issues that caused Ms M distress were  
outside of Lloyds control. I also considered  other awards weve  made in cases of similar 
seriousness. Having  done so Im satisfied that £250  is appropriate compensation in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint. I require the Society of Lloyds to 
pay Ms M £250 compensation to address  her distress and inconvenience.  It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Ms M has accepted my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.  
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a certificate showing  this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0653925