K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  taken out in 1988  
and 1994. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them the 
MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold  because:
Ive considered the possibility that Mr and Mrs S werent given a choice about the MPPI 
and/or that they were pressured into taking it out. But I just dont think theres  enough 
evidence to say this most  likely happened. Given how long ago the MPPI was sold I 
dont think its surprising  Bank  of Scotland hasnt  been  able to provide paperwork from 
the time of sale. But overall I think its most likely  that Bank  of Scotland made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  have to take out the MPPI  and they chose to take it out  although  I 
can understand why they might not be able to remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check that the 
MPPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it most likely was. It seems that the MPPI wouldve covered just Mr S  
and Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover. Ive 
thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have said about why they think they didnt need  
the cover. But I dont  think their circumstances made the cover unsuitable. If Mr S was 
unable to work or lost his job the MPPI  couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim  
on top of and potentially for longer than any sick pay or redundancy pay Mr S may have 
received  at what couldve  been  quite a difficult time. And I dont think  Mr and Mrs S 
would really have  wanted to sell their cars or ask their parents for help.  I also dont think 
any extra  income from Mrs Ss foster carer status or Mr and Mrs Ss savings meant  the 
cover still wasnt  a sensible  precaution. And whilst  Mr and Mrs S may never have been in 
the circumstances where  they needed to claim,  the cover was a sensible precaution to 
help protect them  against the unexpected.  So I dont think I can say it was wrong of Bank  
of Scotland to recommend the MPPI.   
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs S about the MPPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems  like it could have been useful for them if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would  have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to 
Mr and Mrs S.
Ref: DRN02969882But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
MPPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr and Mrs S about  that. Because  Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said. But for the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. 
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0296988