K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). Shes 
concerned she isnt receiving what shes entitled  to under her late husband, Mr Rs pension  
policies. 
background
In February 2018  Mr R sadly passed  away.  Following this Mrs R contacted Prudential to 
claim what she understood her entitlement  under  her late husbands  pensions  to be. 
Between February and April 2018  Mrs R corresponded with Prudential about what  she was 
entitled to. In some instances Mrs R chased  Prudential for an answer  to her claim. 
Prudential wrote to Mrs R on 11 April 2018. It outlined  the basis  of the retirement benefits 
Mr R had chosen and explained where these funds had come from. 
Mrs R contacted Prudential with a number of questions about the information it had 
provided. Specifically,  she was concerned  with the following:
the policy and annuity numbers Prudential  had provided didnt match  up with the 
paperwork she held for her late husbands  pensions. The paperwork she had 
suggested she was entitled to spousal  benefits under all three of Mr Rs annuities
it didnt seem correct that she was only receiving £28.55  from Mr Rs policy  ending  
700 as the paperwork she had said she should be receiving £85.44
Prudential sent its final response to Mrs Rs concerns on 31 July 2018.  In summary it said:
it understood Mrs R believed shed receive  a benefit from all three of her late 
husbands annuities  but this wasnt correct
it enclosed a schedule  detailing all the policies Mr R had, explaining where  money to 
fund his annuities  had come from as well as any policy number changes
it understood why Mrs R thought she was entitled to a death  benefit under her late 
husbands Prudential  (Corporate) Pension  Scheme and another scheme  Ill refer to 
as the M D Scheme, but confirmed this wasnt the case.  This was because the 
death benefit from Mr Rs pensions ended when he settled his policies to fund his 
three annuities 
annuities didnt  always provide for a dependents pension on death. This had to be 
requested by the policyholder. Mr R hadnt selected  annuities  that provided for Mrs R 
upon his death from the non-protected rights  parts of his pension  funds 
annuity ending  700 included Protected Rights  and in line with legislation this part of 
Mr Rs annuity had to provide  Mrs R with a spouses income equal to 50% of the 
protected rights payment
annuities ending  890 and 050 had replaced  annuities ending 561 and 962 but the 
terms and conditions  hadnt changed,  the numbers were replaced  because 
Prudential upgraded its payroll system
Mr Rs annuities were set up correctly  in accordance with his instructions
annuity ending  890 was set up via a financial adviser so if Mrs R had concerns about  
this she needed  to contact them
it accepted  it had caused some  confusion regarding who was dealing with Mrs Rs 
queries. This wasnt acceptable so it would pay £25 to cover the calls Mrs R had 
Ref: DRN09000372made regarding  this. It also accepted it had taken too long to respond  to Mrs Rs 
complaint 
Mrs Rs annuity payment had been made  late but it didnt think shed been  impacted 
financially by this as the overpayment on her late husbands annuity  ending 700 
couldnt have  been recovered  before  16 April 2018. Mrs Rs annuity  payment was 
made 14 April 2018,  but shouldve  been made  1 March  2018  
in recognition of the trouble and upset caused and the time take to set up Mrs Rs 
annuity it was sending her £150
Unhappy with Prudentials  response  Mrs R referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  the matter and in summary  said:
she agreed Prudential  couldve provided  Mrs R with better customer  service and felt 
the £175 compensation paid for this was fair 
Mr R had three annuities with Prudential, under which Mrs R was the beneficiary of 
one
she didnt think Prudential had made  an error when  it said two of Mr Rs annuities  
had ended when  he passed away and explained this was because Mr R hadnt 
selected spouses benefits when  he purchased  these annuities
she understood Mrs R wanted  Prudential to honour the quotes it had provided Mr R 
with that included spousal benefits but as these werent chosen by Mr R, Prudential 
wasnt required to honour these quotes
Mrs R disagreed with our investigator. In summary she said:
she felt our investigator was simply going along  with what Prudential  had said
she didnt think she was receiving  what she was entitled to from her late husbands  
policies
Mr R wouldve always made sure she was provided for under his policies so she 
wanted things  to be checked  again
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
require Prudential do anything further. Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise 
that while Ive taken serious note of the correspondence,  arguments and comments made by 
both parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issue central to this 
complaint. That is to say:
whether Mrs R is receiving what shes entitled to under her late husbands pensions
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mrs R. Its clear to me shes been through  a 
difficult time. Not only as a result  of her husband, Mr R very sadly  passing  away  but also 
from the time and energy shes put into her dealings with Prudential trying  to make sense of 
Mr Rs pensions as well as trying to establish what her entitlement  under these is. 
Prudential has acknowledged  the service it provided  Mrs R with regarding this matter  
couldve been better. It has also accepted  Mrs R received her first annuity payment later 
than she shouldve. For what  Mrs R has experienced  Prudential  has paid her £175 
Ref: DRN09000373compensation. I think that at a difficult time when Mrs R was already grieving  the loss of her 
husband, the service  she received from Prudential wouldve made things feel even more 
challenging. And I think  its appropriate she receives compensation to reflect this. After  
giving it careful consideration, I think the payment of £175  Prudential has already  made  to 
Mrs R fairly  reflects the trouble and upset caused. So I wont be asking Prudential to do 
anything further  in this respect.
Turning now to the issue I have to decide- whether Mrs R is receiving what  shes  entitled to 
under her late husbands pensions.
Im mindful that Mrs R has genuine concerns  Prudential has made a mistake  regarding the 
retirement benefits shes entitled to. And shes worried our investigator has simply gone 
along with what  Prudential has said. Id like to reassure Mrs R that Ive carefully considered  
all of the available evidence in this case to establish whether any error has been  made.  
Having done so, I havent seen anything which persuades me that Prudential  has made a 
mistake in working out what  Mrs R should  be receiving under her late husbands pensions. 
Ill explain  why.
I can appreciate how Mrs R may be under the impression shes entitled to more under her 
late husbands pensions  than Prudential says she is. The majority  of the paperwork Mrs R 
has refers to Mr Rs original  pension policies before they were used to purchase  Mr Rs 
annuities. This paperwork  also shows death benefits were  a feature of Mr Rs original 
pension funds. But the documentation also makes it clear the benefits Mr R ultimately  
received would depend on what he opted  to do when he took retirement  benefits.  I note the 
documentation also said:
() The Transfer Value  and Death Benefit () are for illustration  only-  they are not 
guaranteed ().
So to clarify the death benefits  outlined in the original policy  documentation  Mrs R has only 
applied in the event Mr R passed  away before he took benefits from his pension funds. As 
Mr R passed away after hed chosen how he took retirement benefits, the death benefits 
under his original  policies  ended and any death  benefit provision  needed to be something 
Mr R chose himself  when  he decided  how he wanted to take retirement benefits. 
Mrs R has submitted Quotations Mr R was sent by Prudential which she feels  demonstrates 
she should be receiving  more retirement benefits.  While some of these Quotations do refer 
to the provision of a spouses benefit after death this isnt something that would be 
guaranteed unless Mr R specifically  selected, applied for and was accepted for. The 
Quotations were illustrations of how Mr R could  choose to take retirement  benefits  under his 
policies. They werent guarantees or confirmation  of what  Mr Rs final choices were.
I can see Prudential has already provided  Mrs R with a breakdown  of the annuities  Mr R 
chose. Unfortunately Mrs R doesnt  appear  to have much confidence in this breakdown  so Ill 
outline below what the available evidence shows regarding what  Mr Rs retirement choices 
were and on the basis of these choices, what Mrs R is entitled  to. I hope this adds further 
clarity to the information Mrs R has already  been provided with.
Pension 1
Ref: DRN09000374Mr R chose and received £4,987.26 in Tax Free Cash (TFC)
this pension comprised of Protected  and Non Protected Rights elements
the Protected Rights element was used to set up a joint life annuity  for Mr R ending  
reference 700. It provided Mr R with 685.08 annually and entitled  Mrs R to £342.60  
annually when Mr R passed away
following Mr Rs death Mrs Rs entitlement under Mr Rs pension was set up and paid 
under reference ending  701
with the Non Protected Rights element Mr R chose a single life annuity which  paid 
him £239.28 annually. 
Mr Rs selection didnt  include any provision  for Mrs R when he passed  away 
Pension 2
Mr Rs pension comprised of Non Protected Rights  
Mr R chose and received £7,350 in TFC
Mr R selected a single life annuity paying him £103.56 annually under  annuity 
reference ending  890. Mr Rs selection  didnt include any provision for Mrs R when  
he passed away 
Mr R received advice from an independent financial adviser regarding the annuity he 
chose
Pension 3
Mr Rs pension comprised of Non Protected Rights
Mr R chose and received £2,015.00 in TFC
Mr R selected a single life annuity paying him £284.16 annually under  annuity 
reference ending  050. Mr Rs selection  didnt include any provision for Mrs R when  
he passed away 
Based on the available evidence and what Ive outlined above  I havent been able to 
conclude Prudential has made an error  and that Mrs R is entitled to more that shes  already 
receiving in retirement benefits under  her late husbands pension policies.
Mrs R says Mr R wouldve  always wanted  to ensure she was provided for under his 
pensions when he passed away. While  I dont doubt what Mrs R is saying, I must have 
regard for the fact Prudentials obligation  was to set up Mr Rs annuities on the basis  of what  
he selected and pay any retirement benefits  in line with this. Im satisfied it did this.
Irrespective of Mr Rs selections his annuity reference ending 700 always  had to include the 
provision of a death benefit which provided for Mrs R. This was in accordance  with 
legislation which sets out that in the event a policy holder passes away after theyve taken  
retirement benefits, the Protected Rights element of their pension  must continue to provide 
at half rate (50%) to the policy holders spouse.  
But other than annuity  ending 700, there  wasnt any other annuity provision which wouldve 
automatically included  a benefit  for Mrs R when Mr R passed away. Mr R needed to choose 
this provision himself under his two annuities ending  050 and 890. Mr R didnt  do this and 
Ref: DRN09000375thats why following Mr R sadly  passing  away Prudential  has said Mrs R is only entitled to 
death benefits under annuity ending 700.
Mrs R has my sympathy and understanding. I can see how Mrs R may have become 
confused about what she was entitled  to. Theres a lot of paperwork from before and after 
Mr R took his retirement benefits.  And multiple policy and reference numbers arose  out of 
the retirement choices  Mr R made. This is in addition  to the changes Prudential  made  to its 
payroll system. I have  no doubt this wouldve made it challenging for Mrs R to gain a clear 
sense of what she was entitled to initially. 
I understand Mrs R may be disappointed  with the conclusions Ive reached.  I dont doubt her 
sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing her complaint to this service. But for the reasons 
Ive explained  I havent found  anything to suggest  Prudential isnt already  paying Mrs R what  
shes entitled to. So I dont think there  are reasonable grounds on which  I can require 
Prudential to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0900037