K820x#14complaint
Through the Citizens Advice Bureau  (CAB) Mrs B has complained  about  a secured loan 
which, between August 2015  and October 2017 (when it was repaid) was owned  by Alev UK 
Secured Credit Limited. The CAB has complained  about the following:
the loan was mis-sold  because Mrs B had been  required to sign the documents  by 
her husband (who has since died) and because she wasnt  given  independent legal 
advice;
the result  of a Subject  Access  Request  (SAR) suggests a lack of compliance with the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974   (CCA) between 2008 and 2013, calling into question the 
entitlement of the lender  to enforce the debt;
Alev had no right to increase the arrears management fee after it took over the loan 
and the fees added  to the account are excessive and unfair.
background
In October  2005 Mrs B and her late husband  took out a loan secured under  the CCA. In 
August 2015 the loan was transferred to Alev. The loan term expired in October 2016 and 
there was an outstanding  balance due to Alev. Because  this wasnt  paid, Alev took 
possession action. The court granted a possession order on 17 October 2017. I understand 
Alev agreed to accept  a short  settlement  and the loan was repaid in October 2017.
After the possession order the CAB became involved. It raised a complaint with Alev about  
the matters detailed above. Alev explained that it took over the account  from August 2015, 
so it wasnt responsible either for the sale of the loan or compliance with the CCA prior to 
that date. Alev gave  the CAB the contact details for the original lender. Alev also said it was 
entitled to set its arrears  fee at £50.
Unhappy with Alevs  response,  the complaint was brought  to us. An adjudicator looked at it 
but didnt think  it should be upheld. Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint, 
but didnt provide any new arguments or evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reasons.
I will begin by explaining  that my role is to decide  this complaint  not to audit the account.  
So although  Ive noted the points made  by the CAB about the account balance as a result of 
what the CAB says is non-compliance with the CCA, for the reasons given below, thats not 
something Ill be commenting on.
mis-sale of the loan: It wasnt  until 11 years  after the loan was taken out that Alev took over 
responsibility for it. Any allegations of mis-sale  will need to be referred to the previous 
lender.
non-compliance with the CCA: The breaches of the CCA alleged  by the CAB all took place 
before Alev was responsible for the loan.  The Financial  Ombudsman Service isnt a 
regulator and its not our role to monitor compliance  by lenders. If its the CABs position that 
non-compliance with the CCA  by the previous lender resulted in the account balance being  
Ref: DRN06886802higher than it should have  been  at the point Alev took over the loan, thats something they 
will need  to raise with that lender.
increase in arrears fees: The CAB has complained  that in the loan agreement the arrears 
fee is set at £30, yet when Alev took over the loan, it increased the fee to £50. The CAB 
thinks this is unfair and that Alev has no right to do this
But the mortgage offer contains  a term  in the section relating to fees and charges  that all 
charges are variable from time to time, to reflect any change  in costs  and to take account of 
inflation. I find it surprising, therefore, that the CAB has continued to dispute  whether there  
was any right for Alev to increase the arrears  management fee when the entitlement  to do 
this is set out so clearly  in the contract.
Im satisfied Alev isnt under any obligation to charge the same fee as the previous lender. 
Under the terms of the loan agreement its entitled to increase  the charge. We wouldnt 
interfere with that, provided the charge isnt excessive. An arrears management fee of £50 is 
in line with industry standards.
In her letter dated 30 November 2018 the adjudicator set out in detail where charges had 
been applied,  so I wont repeat all the details here  all parties  are aware  of what charges 
were applied and when since Alev took over the loan in August  2015. Having reviewed the 
account, including the payment history and the allowances Alev made for Mrs Bs personal 
circumstances, Im satisfied the charges were  applied fairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0688680