K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains about the difficulties she had opening accounts for her children with Bank  
of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
background
Mrs O wanted to open savings accounts  with Halifax for her three children. And she was told 
she would  need  to provide their birth certificates.  But when she visited the branch Halifax  
asked for further  information. Two of Mrs Os children were born overseas and didnt have 
the necessary  documentation. So she could only open an account  for the child born in the 
UK. 
Mrs O visited  the branch twice and wants compensation  for her time and effort. And she 
wants to be able to open accounts for all three children.
Halifax said Mrs O had been given  the wrong information when she made the appointment. 
Its adviser hadnt realised  the bank was unable  to accept foreign  birth certificates. It couldnt 
open accounts for them without the additional  information. The bank had to comply with 
legislation from the childrens country  of birth. To put things  right Halifax paid Mrs O £125 
compensation for the inconvenience itd caused. 
Mrs O wasnt  satisfied with Halifaxs response. So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He looked at the reasons why Halifax  had requested  the 
additional information. And he felt itd acted fairly. Itd responded to regulations  from the 
country where two of Mrs Os children  had been born.  And he felt the £125 compensation 
paid was a reasonable  response for the incorrect information Halifax  had provided when 
Mrs O had made her appointment. 
Mrs O didnt agree. A friend had been  able to open an account elsewhere for their children in 
the same  situation.  And she said other  banks have ways around the issue.  So shes asked 
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Os frustration. She made  an appointment to open savings accounts  
for her children. But when she visited the Halifax branch  she was told she couldnt  open 
accounts for two of them. Theyd been  born overseas  and Halifax  needed additional  
information which she didnt have.
Halifax has explained it has to abide by certain legislation  issued in the childrens country of 
birth. It requires a tax identification number when opening  accounts. And it cant  open an 
account without  that information. 
I appreciate Mrs Os children havent  been  issued with this number yet  they are still 
minors. And I can see Mrs O is upset because her friend has been able to open an account 
for their child even though they were  born in the same country  as two of her children. 
Ref: DRN08764262Mrs O has also provided information from a building society  that gave Mrs O the option  to 
state her children didnt  have a tax identification number when opening an account.
From what  Mrs O has provided  it seems different financial organisations have different 
procedures for dealing with account  opening.  But I cant comment  on the commercial  
decisions made by other banks and building societies. And I cant tell Halifax how to run its 
business. I can only look at whether it has made  any mistakes or if its failed to follow  its own 
procedures correctly. 
Halifaxs procedure is to request mandatory  information in line with the issuing countrys 
regulations. And its taken  the decision not to open  accounts where  this information isnt 
available. 
I recognise this has caused  some  wasted time for Mrs O. And I can understand her 
disappointment that shes  been unable to open  the accounts she wanted with Halifax.  
Halifax has paid Mrs O £125 compensation for her time and inconvenience.  And I think thats 
the right response.
But based  on everything Ive seen I think Halifax has followed its procedures  correctly. And I 
cant ask the bank to change  the way it operates its policy  towards opening accounts. So I 
wont be asking Halifax to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0876426