K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains Admiral  Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to renew her motor  
insurance policy.
Miss Ms had a representative  acting on her behalf  for the policys  administration  and her 
complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the actions of the representative as being  those of 
Miss M.
background
In September  2016 Miss M took out an Admiral telematics motor insurance policy. It required 
her to have  a box in her car that monitored  how it was driven. Using  the data from the box 
Admiral gave a driving score. In September 2017 Miss M was offered and accepted a 
renewal. But in September 2018  Admiral said the driving score was in the bottom five per 
cent of its customers - so it wouldnt be offering her a further renewal. 
Miss M complained to Admiral. She says she was told in July 2018 she would be offered a 
renewal. She was unhappy Admiral didnt  call her back after it had said it would. It paid her 
£20 compensation  to make up for that. But it denied saying it would offer a renewal. And 
said it hadnt done anything wrong by not offering one.  
Miss M wasnt  happy with Admirals response. She says she struggled to find alternative 
insurance. And this had negatively affected her employment. Our investigator didnt think 
Admiral had acted unfairly. So he didnt ask it to do anything differently. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss Ms raised a number  of complaint 
points. This is an informal service so I havent responded to them all here  just to those I 
consider the key issues. But I have considered all her points. Having done so, Im not 
making Admiral do anything differently.
 
Insurers can decide which insurance risks they want to cover. Its not for me to tell Admiral 
whether it should  accept  a particular risk or not. But I can consider if its decision not to offer 
Miss M cover was made fairly. Admirals explained  why it didnt offer a renewal. It says 
Miss Ms score was in the bottom five per cent of its customers. Its shown how and why her 
score dropped during the second policy year. This happened across a range of the driving 
behaviours, including speed,  braking and driving at night. Admiral  says the drop meant 
Miss M was an increased risk it wasnt prepared to take on.
Having considered Admirals explanation I cant say its failed to fairly follow its own 
guidance on when  to offer or refuse cover.  I cant say its decision was unfair or 
unreasonable. And it doesnt seem to have treated Miss M differently to how it would treat 
someone else with a similar driving score history. So it didnt act unfairly  by not offering  a 
renewal.
Miss M says Admiral  had previously said during a phone call that it would offer her a 
renewal. Having looked at notes of that call it doesnt seem it provided  any guarantee or 
promise of a renewal.  Instead it seems it gave general information about  the renewal 
process. So I dont  think  it did anything wrong.    
Ref: DRN04150942The partner of Miss M is said to have  caused  the poor driving score.  So she feels  shes been  
treated unfairly  by not being offered a renewal. The policy terms say the driving data 
measures how the vehicle is being  driven. It says it doesnt attempt to identify which  driver is 
responsible. So it seems reasonable Admiral considered  the data for how the car itself was 
used, not just when Miss M was driving  it, when deciding if it would offer a renewal. 
Miss M claimed  for damage to her car in 2018.  It seems  it was a total loss. Later that year,  in 
July, she put a new car on the policy. Miss Ms referred to this as the policy  being reinstated. 
She asks why Admiral  allowed her to do that - but wouldnt offer her a renewal  just a few 
months later. From what Ive seen the policy still had a short while  to run. Thats why she 
was able to continue to benefit  from it. That doesnt  mean Admiral had to automatically offer 
her a renewal once the policy  expired.
After the new car was added Miss Ms partner stayed on the policy as a named  driver. She 
says she didnt ask for that to happen. Ive seen notes of the phone  call. These say she was 
told her partner was on the policy. It seems  she didnt  object  or ask for him to be removed. 
So it seems  reasonable  that Admiral left him on.
Admiral says it blocked Miss M from taking out a new policy with it via price  comparison 
websites. She asks if that was fair. Admiral didnt want to offer her a renewal  or cover.  So it 
seems reasonable  for it to put measures in place to stop her from taking out a policy with it. 
As far as Im aware it didnt stop her taking cover, via such  websites,  with other  insurers.
Miss M says not being offered a renewal has made it harder  for her to get a new policy. 
Even if it has I dont think Admiral did anything wrong by not offering her one. So it wouldnt  
be fair to make  it pay compensation as Miss M would like. Admirals said she wouldnt need 
to declare to insurers that she wasnt offered a renewal. Admiral accepts it didnt call Miss M 
back when it said it would.  The £20 already  paid is enough to recognise  any inconvenience 
that caused. So I wont be asking it to pay any extra. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Admiral Insurance Company Limited  to pay 
Miss M any compensation or do anything  differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0415094