K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Metro Bank plc has applied a CIFAS marker  against  his name. CIFAS is
the UKs  fraud  prevention  agency.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Vs complaint in a provisional decision which I issued in 
December 2019.  That background  and my provisional findings are repeated below:
Mr V says that in December 2015  a school  friend  asked to borrow some  money  as he 
(the friend)  didnt have  his bank card with him. Mr V says he agreed and gave the friend 
his card and PIN. The friend returned  the card about  three  hours later. The following 
day Mr V tried to use his card at a cash machine, but it was retained. When  he 
contacted Metro Bank, he was told that his account  had been  closed.  (In fact, Mr Vs 
account statements  show that these events happened in November, not December, 
2015, but the exact timing  isnt significant.)  Nearly  £200 had been paid into the account 
and then withdrawn  at a cash machine or spent; the credit had been fraudulent.
Mr V later found out that Metro Bank  had also placed a CIFAS marker against  his 
name. The marker is categorised as misuse of facility and has prevented  Mr V from 
opening another account or obtaining  other financial services.  Metro Bank says it told 
Mr V that it had closed  his account, but it was nearly three  years  before he made any 
further contact.
Mr V referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. 
The investigator didnt  think Metro Bank  had treated Mr V fairly and recommended that 
the CIFAS marker be removed. He didnt think the bank had done enough to investigate  
what had happened  before concluding  that Mr V was involved  in dishonest activity.
Mr V accepted the investigators view, but Metro Bank didnt  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached a different 
conclusion from that reached by the investigator   at least  on the basis of the 
information I currently have before me.
The investigator broadly  accepted what Mr V said about what  happened in late 2015   
that is, that hed let a friend  use his card to borrow some cash. I dont believe thats very 
likely though, and make the following  observations:
Ref: DRN06816022Mr V wasnt in a position  to lend his friend any money. The balance  on his 
account at the time was 62p.
Had Mr V wanted to lend his friend  some money, the more obvious way to do 
that would  have been to withdraw it himself  and given his friend cash  (if there 
had been money in the account).
Even if Mr V had let his friend  use his card,  there would have been no reason to 
let him keep possession of it for several hours.
Mr V said too that he didnt know anything about  the wrongful credit  that was paid into 
his account and then quickly removed. I accept  that he may not have known that his 
account would be used to receive  stolen funds, but he must have known very soon 
afterwards that his friend hadnt simply borrowed money from him, not least because  
there was none  in his account.  He didnt raise that with the bank, however, until nearly 
three years later, when the effects on him of the CIFAS marker became apparent.
CIFAS principles say that members (such as Metro Bank) should only record 
information of the type recorded  against  Mr Vs name if there are reasonable grounds to 
believe that a financial crime has been committed and that the evidence is such that the 
matter could be reported to the police. Those principles  post-date  the events here,  but 
they arent irrelevant.  In my view, there was sufficient evidence here to report  the matter 
to the police, although Metro Bank  chose  not to.
I dont believe that Mr V thought he was simply lending money to his friend from his own 
account. There were  for the reasons Ive explained  clear indications  that Mr V had 
allowed his friend  wider access to and use of his account. It was, in my view,  quite likely 
that the account would be used for dishonest purposes  as turned out to be the case. It 
may be that Mr V didnt  know exactly how the account would be used, but I believe he 
must have  known that he shouldnt allow anyone else access to it in the way he did.
In the circumstances, I dont believe Metro Bank treated Mr V unfairly.
I invited both parties (but in particular Mr V) to let me have any further arguments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued a final decision. 
Mr V responded to say that he was young  and hadnt realised  that something like this could 
happen. He accepted that he had given his card to his friend, but didnt think hed done 
anything wrong. He also explained that Metro Bank had told him someone had opened other 
accounts in his name, and assumed that must have been his friend as well. Because  of the 
CIFAS marker,  hes been  unable to open a new bank account.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent however changed my view from 
that set out in my provisional  decision.  As I said then, I appreciate that Mr V may not have 
known exactly what his friend was planning to do with his card and PIN, or what the 
consequences might  be. But I think he must have known that he shouldnt  give his card and 
PIN to anyone else, and I think he might  have suspected that his friend would use them for 
dishonest purposes.  In my view, thats sufficient for Metro  Bank  to act in the way it did.
Ref: DRN06816023my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Metro Bank  plc to remove the CIFAS marker to take 
any other steps to resolve Mr Vs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept  or reject  my decision  before 6 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0681602