K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
credit card in 2003. Ms L says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision.
Ms L said the credit card was supplied to her, through her employer,  to pay for the travel  
and accommodation  expenses of senior company officials. She said she had no need for 
PPI as her employer cleared the monthly  balance on the credit card. She said if shed 
left her employer, the balance wouldve  been cleared before she left, and if she was off 
sick, she wouldnt have used the card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint, concluding that the credit card application 
was taken out in her own name. Our adjudicator thought it unlikely that this was a company 
card as shed requested two balance transfers and the statements were sent to her home 
address. 
Ive seen Ms Ls credit card application. I can see that she applied  for the card in her own 
name and a cross was placed in the box selecting  PPI. There was an equally prominent  box 
that couldve been selected  to decline PPI. This was a postal application, so I think it 
unlikely that Barclays  assisted Ms L to complete this application. She asked  on the same 
form to have two other credit balances from other cards transferred on to her new 
Barclaycard account,  once opened. 
Like our adjudicator, looking at the application,  I think it unlikely that this was an application 
for a company credit  card. I say this because the application was made  in Ms Ls name and 
she was applying to have some debts transferred over.  The statements were sent to her 
home address. Based on what Ive seen and heard, I think  it likely that Ms L selected PPI on 
her personal  credit  card at the time because she wanted it. And I think  Barclays paperwork 
made it clear  that she didnt have to take it to get the card. So, I cant  fairly uphold her 
complaint on this ground.
I cant see that Barclays recommended the PPI to her. But, it still had to give her enough fair 
and clear information about the PPI to allow her to make a decision about whether  she 
wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Ms L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it couldve been useful for her if something went  wrong.  
So, I dont  think  better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. I say this because  she was eligible to take out PPI. It looks like it was affordable. 
Looking at her personal circumstances, I cant see that the policy  was inappropriate for 
her. Although she said she wouldve  got some sick pay through work and had some other 
Ref: DRN08921372means from which she couldve made her repayments, I cant  see that these were at a 
level that meant she clearly didnt  need cover. And the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
Ms Ls work  benefits  if she was off work sick, or if she was made redundant. I also cant  
see that she was affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover.  As she 
couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered,  I think it couldve provided her with 
valuable protection.
So, for the reasons given, it follows that I do not think  that this policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0892137