K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about Ageas Insurance Limited  in respect  of how it handled 
a claim they made after there was a hot water leak at their home.
background
In October 2017  Mr B was having  work  done  at his home. He was away at the time. A part 
failed on the hot water  supply to the shower. The leak wasnt discovered  for around a day. 
Mr B returned home as soon as he was notified of the leak, that was 14 October 2017  and 
he contacted Ageas that day.
Ageas credited Mr Bs bank account so that he and his family could move into a hotel. On 
8 November 2017 the family moved into a rental  property that had been  organised.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster who in turn appointed a drying company to dry the house. 
That company was due to do strip out works  too and it did do some work. However, the 
adjuster asked Mr and Mrs B to sign a mandate to appoint a surveyor. They  did so and the 
surveyor arranged for a contractor who could do the recommended  strip out works and later 
complete the reinstatement work. The adjuster  informed the drying company that our 
nominated contractors would complete  the strip-out works, so it now only needed to dry the 
property.
In December the adjuster noted  the contractor had said it felt repairs  could be completed by 
the time the first lease  on the alternative accommodation property expired on 5 May 2018.
In January 2018 the drying company realised that whilst it had been drying the property,  it 
hadnt checked all of the damaged ceilings for asbestos. The equipment was stopped, 
samples were taken for testing and they returned negative (meaning there was no 
asbestos). Around  the same time it was noted that the kitchen floor wasnt  drying. The 
drying contractor suggested  this might be to do with pre-existing damp. But a couple  of 
weeks later a drying certificate  was issued stating the property  was dry. However, the 
kitchen wasnt dry. The adjuster  asked the surveyor to investigate this further and the 
original drying company  was removed from the building claim work.
By this point  Mr B had become frustrated as he thought the repairs  werent progressing as 
quickly as they should have been, he wasnt being  advised of timescales and the work  
schedule hadnt  been shared with him. When it was shared it didnt  highlight  what  had been  
done and what  was still to do. Mr B reported damage being  done to a gas pipe and that one 
of Ageas contractors  had misplaced clothing.  He was unhappy as he was paying bills for 
both addresses.  Mr B felt hed been  spending  so much time sorting everything, to no avail, 
so he appointed solicitors to act for him.
Ageas issued a final response in July 2018. It focused on the length of time the property 
had taken to dry. It said the original drying contractor had genuinely tried to complete this 
work but when it was apparent this hadnt  happened, it had appointed a new contractor who 
viewed the situation with fresh eyes,  removed floor tiling and finished drying the property.
Ageas felt the delay was a natural and unavoidable  result of a drying technique being tried 
and then revised.
On 5 October 2018 Mr B was able to move back home. He reported that there were some 
snagging issues and some payments from Ageas were outstanding. He was also forced to 
Ref: DRN06002732move home without his belongings  these werent returned to him until 15 October 2018, 
but some  clothing  items remained missing.
When we asked Ageas for its file on Mr and Mrs Bs claim it told us that a good part of their 
upset had resulted  from the way the claim had been handled by the surveyor  and the works 
that had been carried out by the contractor the surveyor  had appointed. Ageas  said it had 
no responsibility in this respect because the surveyor was acting as Mr and Mrs Bs agent, 
not its, because  they had appointed it, and it in turn, had appointed the contractor. It said it 
didnt think it was liable for solicitors  costs. It noted the claim had taken longer than it 
should have done but said some delay had been caused by Mr and Mrs B wanting a 
kitchen from a national  retailer. It implied it could have fitted  a new kitchen quicker. It also 
noted the family had been able to take an extended  break abroad  so it felt this had likely 
limited their upset. It said it was still looking into the issue of the missing  clothes.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and felt Ageas had really been  in control of the 
surveyor, so it wasnt  fair to say it and the contractor had been acting for Mr B. She said 
Ageas should  pay Mr Bs solicitors costs and £500  compensation. She felt Ageas should 
also pay for Mr Bs missing clothes.
Ageas didnt agree with the findings.  It didnt think any failure by it had caused  Mr B to 
instruct the solicitor  and it had told him it wouldnt cover this cost. It also argued that as Mr 
B had signed a mandate regarding the surveyor, and given a previous finding by this 
service in a similar circumstance, the surveyor and contractor should be seen  to have been 
working for Mr B, and not it. It said it was reviewing the missing clothing.
In August  2019  Mr Bs solicitor confirmed  that costs for it to act for Mr B to date were 
£5,244. It said all this should be paid in view of how long matters had gone on and yet 
remained unresolved.  Eight issues were  listed as being outstanding:
Missing clothes.
Replacement cost of rusted curtain rails,  £69.98.
Replacement freezer, estimated  to cost £348.
A promised but not received payment in the value of £1,404.99.
A payment for decorating the bathroom.
An invoice  for repair of radiators had been rejected, and it was unclear why.
Payment for a bespoke unit in the kitchen had been refused, it was unclear why.
Payment of £830 plus VAT to allow Mr B to instruct a contractor  regarding  bi-fold doors.
The complaint was passed  to me to consider.  I told Ageas that I thought  it had entered into 
a contract to repair the property, and that its loss adjuster had been in control of the 
surveyor. So I thought  it was responsible for the surveyor and any contractors the surveyor 
had appointed. I also asked both parties for updates  on the claim.
In January 2020 Mr B told us that Ageas had still refused to take any action regarding the 
missing clothing  he said hed been told this was on hold pending our investigation. He 
said whilst  Ageas had fixed the gas pipe quickly, hed never  been  provided with a health 
and safety report  about this incident which had put many  people at risk.
Ageas said it was happy for us look at everything up to date. It provided more information 
about the claim and detail  about what had gone  on. It said it accepted there  had been a 
degree of confusion about the freezer and told us it would pay the £348  requested  to settle  
the matter. It then confirmed the drying  company had sent this payment to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN06002733Mr B then clarified that the only claim issues outstanding that he required this service to 
consider were the missing clothing and the gas pipe. Ageas had settled all the outstanding 
claim payments towards the end of 2019. Mr B explained that whilst the gas pipe had been  
repaired, he had only found out about  the whole thing by happenstance  an electrician had 
overheard the other  contractor when the damaged pipe had been found and had told Mr B 
about it. Mr B said he feels that Ageas had put his whole family at risk and it needs to 
account for that, accordingly he wants a full health  and safety report  on the issue.
The background in respect  of missing clothes  is that in December 2017 some  clothes which  
had been cleaned were returned by Ageas cleaning contractor to Mrs B. She says she 
asked the cleaning company when it delivered  the other items, for further items to be taken 
and cleaned. A bag of items was taken.  Mr and Mrs B say, when they asked for the return 
of these further items the contractor claimed  no knowledge about them. The loss adjuster 
interviewed the contractors employee who was believed to have returned the original items 
and taken the (now) missing items away. He reportedly denied  having collected the items.
Ageas says there is no proof its contractor  took and misplaced items. Whilst Mr and Mrs B 
have listed the items   some everyday items,  but one being an inherited fur coat  Ageas 
isnt prepared to make any settlement for them.
I issued a provisional decision. Whilst I felt Ageas had failed Mr and Mrs B in the way it had 
handled their claim (and should pay £800 compensation), I didnt think  it should have to pay 
their legal fees. I also didnt think it should have to provide  any report regarding  the broken 
gas pipe or make any settlement for missing clothing. My provisional findings  were:
Whilst the solicitor set out a number of issues as still requiring settlement, Mr B has 
accepted that, with the exception of the missing clothes and gas pipe,  all other  claim issues  
have been resolved and are no longer outstanding. Therefore, I wont make any finding 
about them  here  except  for as they pertain to any comments  I make  later in my decision 
about how this claim  was handled.  There are, of course, the issues  of the gas pipe, missing 
clothing and solicitors costs to consider.
Touching here on the way the claim was handled  at the outset,  Ageas had argued  that it 
wasnt responsible  for the works carried  out by the contractor appointed  by the surveyor, or 
how the surveyor handled the repairs, due to a mandate Mr B had signed which  said he 
was appointing the surveyor (even though that surveyor  was being introduced by Ageas 
loss adjuster). However, I pointed out to Ageas that it had also appointed a contractor to dry 
and partially strip the property, starting this work before the surveyor came on board. And 
also that the loss adjuster had clearly  been in control of the surveyor  and had referred to 
the contractor appointed  by the surveyor as being Ageas nominated contractor. Ageas 
accepted my view that all this meant it couldnt reasonably  deny liability  for any actions  or 
failures of either the surveyor or the appointed contractor.
It was the original drying contractor that had damaged the gas pipe. Whilst I understand it 
was upsetting for Mr and Mrs B to find out about  this, both sides accept the problem was 
fixed. Whilst there may have been some  risk to visitors  and workers  at the property  at the 
time the damage  occurred, no actual harm came  to anyone. And the worry Mr and Mrs B 
were caused  only occurred retrospectively  and was short lived because the issue had 
already been fixed (as soon as it was found). I dont award compensation for what  might 
have been. Nor do I make awards  to punish  insurers, to make  them  account for what was 
done. Therefore,  Im not going to require Ageas to produce any report  about the damage to 
the gas pipe. It clearly shouldnt have happened but its been resolved and without any 
Ref: DRN06002734lasting harm having occurred. But I will factor in the distress which  Mr and Mrs B were 
caused when  they found out thered been damage  and theyd been  subjected  to a risk 
(which thankfully hadnt  been realised).
With regret for any upset this causes Mr and Mrs B, Im not going to uphold the part of their 
complaint about  missing  clothes. For me to uphold a complaint, I have to be satisfied that 
the insurer (or its contractor) most likely  failed  the policyholder in some way. Not just that it 
may have  done.  And in this situation I cant be satisfied that is the case. That is clearly what
Mr and Mrs B believe. And I dont  doubt  their belief. But I also have to weigh that against 
the statement  of the employee that is believed to have  collected the items that are now said 
to be missing. He says he didnt collect the items.  I have no reason to think  he is being any 
less truthful than Mr and Mrs B. That means  I cant be satisfied  that its most likely the 
contractor failed Mr and Mrs B.
Turning to how the claim was handled,  I do think Ageas failed Mr and Mrs B in this respect.  
Whilst Ageas entered into a contract to repair Mr and Mr Bs home, it simultaneously, via its 
loss adjuster, acted  to try and remove itself from any liability for the repairs by having Mr 
and Mrs B sign a mandate stating they were employing the surveyor  which  the loss 
adjuster had introduced and then controlled  throughout the claims process.
Communication with Mr and Mrs B was poor and they often felt the need to chase updates 
and the adjuster regularly took time to reply.  There was also a continual lack of clarity about  
what work had been done, was outstanding and when such  would be completed.
Furthermore the drying company  Ageas  appointed failed to dry the property properly  at the 
outset. The company has since admitted that the employee has been sent for further 
training as the drying certificate  should never have been issued (walls were still wet). Ageas 
argues that is just a technical issue, that the drying  certificate being incorrectly  issued didnt 
delay the drying  process. It simply was issued early  and more  drying was always necessary  
because the kitchen floor wasnt drying  either.  But I think the employees failure and lack of 
understanding of the drying  process went further  than that. Despite the large quantities  of 
water and that initial reports had said the kitchen needed stripping and flooring in the house 
lifting, this technician said the tiled flooring in the kitchen laid over concrete didnt need 
lifting. The documents show he didnt test areas properly and that whilst hed noted that the 
grouting in the kitchen  floor was wet he felt this was an acceptable level of moisture  and 
that the drying certificate could  be issued.  He was clearly wrong about that and much more  
drying was required.
Further, in my experience,  following a major water  leak,  it is quite normal for tiled floor 
finishes laid over concrete  to require lifting to allow moisture trapped in the concrete below 
to be drawn to the surface and evaporate  via the use of driers and sometimes a fair 
amount of time. I note this is essentially how a dry floor was eventually achieved  by the 
other contractor. Had the tiling been  removed earlier the floor could have been drying along 
with the rest of the property, instead  of only being  started afterwards. I think  the drying 
process took longer than it reasonably should  have  done because  of avoidable failures by 
the initial drying contractor and this had an inevitable impact on the overall  length  or repair.
It seems  things  did move forward in an appropriate manner once the property was found to 
be finally and properly  dry at the end of May 2018. Mr and Mrs B moved home in
October 2018 and whilst that is still quite a long time the repairs were  extensive. But the 
family had to move home without their belongings and a dispute regarding  damage to a 
freezer arose. The latter has only recently been  resolved  and at times the adjuster had told 
Ref: DRN06002735Mr and Mrs B they should deal directly with the drying company to try and resolve  this.
Whilst Ageas and Mr and Mrs B are satisfied that all the claim payments have been  made  
the payment for the freezer being  the last of them  I can see that what  was being  paid and 
for what wasnt  always clear. And that some payments were still outstanding and not settled 
well into 2019, and regarding the freezer into 2020   two and a half years after the loss.
I think settlement payments could have been  handled better and Ive seen no good reason 
why some werent paid until autumn 2019, and the freezer spring 2020. I dont doubt this 
caused distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B.
Having reviewed everything I think Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs B £800 compensation.
I think this is fair and reasonable given the upset Im satisfied it caused by failing to handle 
the claim properly and in a timely  manner.
However, Im not going to require Ageas to pay the solicitors costs that have been incurred 
by Mr and Mrs B. I know they felt they werent  getting anywhere with the claim  but the 
process for resolving that is to complain. And a solicitor isnt required for that purpose.
Ageas felt Id misrepresented  its earlier claim position in respect  of Mr and Mrs B having 
employed the surveyor and contractor. It made  a few other  comments  about my findings but 
said it accepted  my compensation award.
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  responded  on their behalf.  In summary the solicitor asked for 
payment of:
£500 compensation in respect  of the gas pipe;
£1,313 for missing  clothing;
£500 compensation for unfair treatment in respect of the issue  of missing clothing;
£4,800 being 80% of their legal  costs. 
The solicitor  made reference to my changing or moving away  from the initial FOS 
decision.  And suggested that given findings had been made against Ageas, further findings 
in favour  of Mr and Mrs B should reasonably be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I stand by what I said about Ageas earlier position  on its liability for the insured work  and 
how the claim had been  handled by the surveyor. Whilst Ive noted Ageas other comments  
they dont materially  affect anything Ive said and I see it has accepted my provisional 
compensation award.
Turning to the response from Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor, this hasnt caused me to change my 
findings either. Ill explain.
Prior to my provisional decision there  hasnt  been  a decision issued by this service on this 
complaint. An investigator  considered the complaint  and shared their view of if with both 
parties. But that is not a decision.  Im not bound to reach the same findings  as an 
investigator. Rather my role is to review the complaint afresh and make  a decision on what  
I think the fair and reasonable  outcome of the complaint is. That is what Ive done here. 
Ref: DRN06002736Whilst I know Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  thinks I should hold against Ageas the fact of some of 
the unfavourable  findings  I have made, in order to determine how its acted in other 
instances, that wouldnt be fair and reasonable. 
I did accept that, to some limited extent, the situation with the gas pipe caused some upset. 
I factored  that into my overall compensation award   but I dont  split out the compensation 
awards I make, awarding separate figures  for upset  caused by different errors.  Id add 
though that the conversation overheard and reported to Mr B took place when the damage 
was discovered  it wasnt the case that Ageas had known damage  had occurred prior to 
that point and hidden it from Mr and Mrs B. Even  if it had been, I have to focus on the upset 
caused by such  unfair  treatment. Unfair treatment alone doesnt give me cause to make  a 
compensation award. 
Regarding the missing  items, the solicitor said the agents account  of what  happened had 
changed. First it had been reported that he didnt recall the episode, then that he didnt  
remember collecting items.  The solicitor  said that as Mr and Mrs Bs account hadnt 
changed, and because no findings had been made against them, it was likely, on balance, 
that their version of events was true. Whilst Ive considered this, Im still of the view that I 
cant be satisfied that Mr and Mrs Bs account of what happened is most  likely the case. Id 
remind the parties that we are an informal service and we cant  test the statements given by 
relevant parties  in the same  way a court can. That means that when its one partys word  
against anothers I often  cant be satisfied as to what is most  likely to have happened. Mr 
and Mrs B being consistent in their recollection isnt enough for me to be satisfied  their 
version is most likely  correct and that Ageas failed them. Therefore, I cant fairly or 
reasonably require Ageas to make a settlement for the missing clothing or pay 
compensation.
Regarding legal costs Im still not persuaded to make Ageas pay these. Ageas did make 
Mr and Mrs B sign a mandate  and some of its arguments were  of a legal  nature   but they 
werent phrased in a particularly complex  or legal way. And none  of that changes the fact 
that, regardless of what Ageas  was saying, if Mr and Mrs B werent happy with that, they 
could have complained for free to this service.  And Id have expected their solicitor to have 
been able to advise them of that when they were first contacted  for advice. 
The policy does offer cover for legal protection. But no claim has been made under that 
cover or any complaint made  about Ageas actions in respect of any such claim,  so I cant  
make a finding in respect of the cover available under the policy  as part of this complaint. If 
Mr and Mrs B wish to make a claim in that respect  they are free to do so but may wish to 
check the policy wording  first. I dont know if it is the case here, but often legal protection  
cover wont  respond where the policyholder is seeking to take legal  action against  the policy 
provider.  
Without wishing  to upset Mr and Mrs B or Ageas, and having  considered  the responses to 
my provisional findings provided by both parties,  Im not minded to change  or move away  
from my provisional findings.  They now form part of this, my final decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B a 
total of £800 compensation. If any part of this has been paid already, itll only now need to 
pay any difference remaining.
Ref: DRN06002737Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0600273