K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about what happened  when he got repairs done  by British Gas Insurance  
Limited (BGI).
background
Mr B told us that he rang BGI about a leak. Someone came  out to fix it early in February 
2018. A couple  of weeks later, Mr B went back into that area of the house, and found that 
the carpets were soaking wet. He said that the person who did the first repair didnt use 
plumbing tape inside the repair,  and the repaired pipe leaked badly. Mr B said that caused 
considerable damage to the dining room  carpet  and underlay, and the curtains. 
BGI did admit liability, and it asked Mr B to send it a quote for the damage.  
Mr B got a quote  to replace the damaged carpet,  and sent it to BGI. He isnt pursuing a claim 
for the curtains. 
In April, BGI said that it wanted to send  an independent inspector to check  the damage. Mr B 
said that hed already  waited in for five days for various reasons  to try to get this problem 
sorted out, and hed made a lengthy  trip to get the quote, so he was reluctant to allow further 
delays. Mr B said he was upset by the allegation that he might be inflating his claim, but he 
seems to have accepted  that BGI wanted  to validate the claim he was making,  so this visit 
went ahead. 
In early May,  Mr B said that he still hadnt  had any payment or a response to his complaint 
about the delay in resolving this issue, so he complained to our service.  BGI wrote to Mr B 
then to say he could now complain to us if he wished,  because of the length of time it had 
taken to resolve the issue.
BGI wrote to us with some details of Mr Bs cover, and progress on the complaint so far. It 
said that it was still actively dealing with his claim. It confirmed that it had accepted liability.  It 
said that it realised this had taken  some time,  but it was following its standard process, which 
included sending a loss assessor  out to visit and review the extent of the damage. BGI said 
that it needed a chance  to investigate the complaint fully before it could reach a view.  But 
given the length of time this had already  taken,  BGI said it would pay Mr B £30. 
Mr B then contacted us to say that hed received an offer from BGI in full and final settlement  
of his claim.  Our adjudicator said that we might  not be able to investigate  the complaint if he 
accepted that. Mr B said that he was happy  with the offer to repair  the damage, but thought 
he ought to get some  compensation as well. He pointed out that hed had to make a 120 
mile round trip to match  the old carpet (that was the nearest branch of the chain hed 
purchased the original  from) so he was out of pocket. And he said that this had also taken up 
several days of his time. He said he would accept the settlement BGI offered on the basis 
that it was for the carpet costs only, and didnt deal with the issue  of compensation. 
BGI confirmed that it had discussed this with Mr B, and it understood that he wouldnt be 
accepting this payment  in full and final settlement. He intended to note on the form that this 
payment didnt include compensation for the delays that BGI had caused in settling this 
claim.
Ref: DRN08385432BGI then offered to pay Mr B £60 in compensation. And it said that it would pay him his 
petrol costs  if he could provide proof  of the journey in the form of a fuel receipt.  
Mr B didnt accept that. He said it was a 120 mile round trip, hed accept 45p per mile for 
that, but he said he couldnt  provide petrol receipts. His car was already fuelled  when he set 
off on the journey. He said that the process seemed  to be turning into a farce.  He said that 
by this time hed spent  a total of seven days waiting for a variety of BGIs agents to come  
and rectify  and/or assess the damage  caused by them. He said that £500  in compensation 
plus £54 mileage would be reasonable. 
BGI said it would pay what Mr B had asked  for in fuel costs,  but it wouldnt pay any more  
than £60 in compensation. 
Our adjudicator asked  BGI for more information  on this case.  BGI refused  to provide it, on 
the basis that a payment had been  made,  and Mr B had signed to say that he was accepting  
that money in full and final settlement. BGI sent our service an unsigned copy of the 
settlement form. It stated Mr B had returned that, and payment  had been  issued. 
Mr B told us that he hadnt accepted  that payment in full and final settlement. He said he had 
annotated the form to make clear that it didnt settle  his complaint about the poor service  
hed received, as hed said to both us and BGI that he would. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that shed asked BGI for the information  that 
she would  need  to set out a full timeline,  and it had refused  to provide it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  accept that Mr B had signed  a form stating  that his complaint had 
been completely  settled.  And she said that BGI was aware that our service was already 
dealing with this complaint. 
Our adjudicator said shed  received  very limited information from BGI, but from what she had 
seen, she didnt think that BGI had dealt with this complaint fairly. It took around four months 
to settle. Mr B had contributed towards that delay  in the sum of three weeks, the time he 
took to get a quote. BGI had delayed five weeks between being aware of the damage, and 
arranging an inspection.  
Our adjudicator said she didnt know why Mr B wasnt paid until June, but she said that it 
seemed to be BGIs fault. She did think that a payment of £54 for fuel costs was reasonable. 
But she didnt think that £60 was enough to make up for the trouble and upset caused. She 
said that she would propose that BGI pay £260  instead. 
Our adjudicator said that if BGI disagreed  with that, then she would like it to send the 
evidence that she had asked for, so she could reconsider. 
BGI didnt  accept that. It offered  a total of £184,  including fuel costs,  and said it didnt think  it 
needed to send more evidence. BGI repeated that Mr B had accepted a cash settlement  for 
the damage to his property. Mr B said he wouldnt take £184, but he would accept  a total of 
£249. BGI wouldnt pay that. 
Both sides wanted this issue  to be resolved  by an ombudsman.  So the case was passed to 
me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN08385433my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator. 
Mr B has an insurance policy which covers him for repairs  to his plumbing and drains. BGI 
hasnt sought  to argue that the repairs that were  done to Mr Bs home werent  done  under 
this policy. And it has accepted liability  for the damage caused  by the initial  repairs.  This 
complaint deals primarily with how BGI responded to that claim for damage to Mr Bs carpet  
and underlay. As Ive noted, Mr B doesnt pursue the claim for damage to his curtains. 
Mr B told us that he needed  to make a 120 mile round trip to match the sample  from his 
original carpet. BGI has agreed to pay £54 for this. I think thats a fair resolution to that part 
of Mr Bs complaint.
But the substantive issue of who is responsible for the delay in this case, and whether it is 
reasonable, is more  difficult to resolve. Thats because BGI has supplied very little 
information in this complaint. As our adjudicator stated, there isnt enough to provide a clear 
and detailed timeline of events. But that is BGIs choice.  
BGI has asserted that it doesnt  have to send our service  more information, because  it says 
it has paid Mr B an amount in full and final settlement of this complaint. It has sent us a blank 
document, which, if signed in an unannotated  form, would purport to fully settle this 
complaint. 
Setting aside whether trying to reach  a full and final settlement with Mr B was an appropriate 
step for BGI to take once a complaint had been  raised with our service, Mr B told us and BGI 
that he didnt want to accept this money in full and final settlement. BGI similarly told us that 
it had discussed  this with Mr B, and he had said he would amend the form to make clear  it 
wasnt settling his complaint about the delay. Mr B has since  told us he did that.
If BGI wanted me to accept that Mr B had taken this money in full and final settlement of his 
claim, it would need to show me that he didnt annotate the form, he just signed it. It has 
chosen not to do that. On the evidence I have seen, I dont think  its likely that Mr B forgot to 
make those annotations.  So I dont think the complaint which he brought  to our service  has 
been settled. I also note that BGI continued to make further offers,  even after the alleged  
settlement, which doesnt seem consistent  with its suggestion that the matter had already 
been finalised.
If the complaint isnt settled, then BGI would have been well advised  to provide our service  
with enough evidence to explain why it took until June  to pay Mr B for damage  that was 
reported to it in late February. It just hasnt explained that. 
Mr B has provided the informal notes  he made  for his complaint,  which  do offer some 
information about what happened. I can see that some of this time was used up while Mr B 
was obtaining  a quote, but that doesnt  seem to explain more  than three  weeks of this 
period. Mr B was initially reluctant to allow  an independent expert to view the damage,  but 
that issue seems to have  been resolved within a day or two. The rest of the delay in 
resolving the issue  and making  a payment remains unexplained. 
Ref: DRN08385434The rules  that govern  our service allow me to reach a decision on the basis of the evidence  
which has been supplied  and take account  of the failure by a party to provide information 
requested. Our adjudicator has repeatedly requested that BGI supply more detailed  
information to explain the delay. That hasnt  been supplied. Mr Bs notes suggest that most 
of the delay is BGIs fault. I think that its fair and reasonable, on what I have seen, to hold 
BGI responsible for most of this delay in resolving the claim for Mr Bs damaged  carpet. 
It seems  most likely that Mr B has received  poor service from BGI both in terms of the initial 
repair, which left a leak that caused  additional damage to Mr Bs home, but also thereafter.  
As an example, Mr B told us his carpet was still damp in late March,  and he wasnt yet able 
to replace it. I can see that BGIs  engineer who fixed the leak was also supposed to give 
Mr B advice on drying, but Ive not seen  anything to suggest that BGI offered to pay for or 
provide drying  equipment to speed up the drying process. 
And BGI didnt pay Mr B for a replacement until June. Although it seems likely  that Mr B 
didnt use this part of the house  regularly, that is still a long time for part of his home to be in 
need of repair.  
I think, for these reasons,  that BGI should pay Mr B the £260 that our adjudicator suggested 
for the distress and inconvenience that both the delay in providing the money to repair his 
carpet, and the poor service he appears to have received,  has caused Mr B. It can deduct  
any payments made in compensation  from this sum. It cant  though  deduct  the payment it 
has made to Mr B to replace the damaged flooring. 
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr B £54 in travel costs, and 
a total of £260 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it caused him. It can 
deduct any compensation payments  already made from this sum, but not any payments it 
made towards the repairs to the damaged flooring.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0838543