K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs N took out PPI at the same time as they applied  for a mortgage  in one of the 
banks branches.  The policy gave them protection against accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
They paid a monthly amount for it and the policy benefit was split 50:50 between  them.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory,  I have  
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is most 
likely in the light of the available evidence  and what we know  about how Halifax  sold PPI at the 
time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs N say they were never  aware that PPI would be added  to their mortgage, if 
theyd been offered  it they would have  declined it. I cant know  what was said in the 
meeting or how the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs N. And their application documents  
arent available but thats not surprising, or unreasonable, given how long ago the sale was. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ns comments, but I also have to consider how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect  what they recall. Without stronger evidence, I 
cant fairly conclude  Halifax didnt make it clear  the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs N 
didnt agree to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs N, and it seems to have been right for them  
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mrs N cant  give us any details 
of her employment benefits in 1995. Mr N initially told us he wouldve received  full pay for 
12 months if he was off sick. More recently  hes said it was at the discretion of the business 
and could be reviewed if he was on long-term  sick leave.  I note his old employer is still 
trading. So it should  be possible for Mr N to ask it to comment  on its sick pay policy  as it 
applied to him at the time. But hes told us he cant provide anything  further.  
In the circumstances, I dont think its safe to assume Mr N was contractually entitled  to 12 
months sick pay so I cant fairly  conclude  his work  benefits meant  the PPI wouldnt have 
been useful for him. And anyway the PPI would have paid out in addition to any work 
benefits and for up to 12 months for all accident, sickness  and unemployment claims. Mr 
and Mrs N had no savings  or other insurances. 
Ref: DRN07719262They were  borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home.  So the 
effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for them.  Overall,  I think  
the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs N if they were sick, had an accident or lost 
their job(s).
Mr N was the main household earner. So I dont think it was right for the policy  benefit to be 
split between Mr and Mrs N equally. Mrs Ns income  from the part time hours she worked 
must have meant she was making  a smaller  contribution  towards the mortgage 
repayments. These must have been  paid mainly from Mr Ns salary. However, the overall 
cost to Mr and Mrs N wouldve been the same  regardless of how the benefit was split. This 
is because the cost of the policy is based  on the benefit it would pay. So although the equal 
benefit split might  not have been right in Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances, the cost wouldnt 
have changed  if the benefit  had been shared differently. 
This means  Mr and Mrs N would only have been  worse off if Mr N made a claim - and they 
received less than they should  have  to cover Mr Ns contribution towards the mortgage 
repayments. But Ive seen no evidence of this. So, as Mr N never made a claim on the 
policy, I cant uphold this complaint on the basis that Mr and Mrs N lost out because of an 
incorrect benefit split.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs N all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable. I also dont  know that it pointed  out the main  things the 
policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs N dont appear to have been affected  by any of those 
things. This means, overall, I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs N have lost out because of any problems with the sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to accept  
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0771926