K820x#14complaint
Mr T says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr T bought  the policy at a meeting in 1998 at the same time as taking a loan. He was 
employed at the time as a fitter and had been  there one month. From what  hes told us, Mr T 
was entitled to less than three months  full sick pay and didnt have any other  means with 
which to pay his loan if he couldnt  work. When he brought us his complaint, the only health 
issue Mr T told us of having suffered was a broken bone a few years  before the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr T for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and life cover, 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It would pay Mr Ts monthly  loan payment for up to 
the remaining  term for a successful disability claim and up to 12 months for unemployment. 
The life cover would,  subject to its terms, clear  the loan on death.
HSBC has told us the policys one-off upfront premium  of £696.12 was paid in advance  by 
being added to the loan (a single premium) where  it attracted interest  over the term of the 
loan. The loan was repayable over a 48 month term and the policy  term matched that of the 
loan. The monthly loan repayment  was £141.75  and HSBC  has told us the PPI cost an 
additional £18.86, making the total monthly  repayment £160.61.
HSBC has sent us evidence showing the loan wouldve ended  in 2002 - unless Mr T repaid it 
earlier or fell behind with his payments. Mr T has told us he didnt miss any payments or go 
into arrears  and Ive seen nothing to suggest  he fell behind  with the payments. HSBC has 
said the loan ended  in 2001. So, from what Ive seen, the loan ended  no later than 2002.  
Mr Ts representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Ts 
representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr T wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ts representatives believe there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  HSBC should have told Mr T about 
the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr T and the impact  they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN07844502The information Mr T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr T disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts complaint
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  no later than in 2002. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.  
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN07844503I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ts case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ts complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr T, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr T suffered  loss or damage and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr T and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Ref: DRN07844504Mr T says the PPI was sold in a meeting and that advice was provided.  HSBC says it cant 
say how the PPI was sold or whether it provided  advice. With all this in mind, what I have 
persuades me HSBC  gave advice. This means HSBC had to advise Mr T with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs 
and circumstances.
did Mr T know he had a choice?
HSBC also had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr T has told us HSBC  discussed the 
cover and what could  happen  if he couldnt pay the loan  and told him it was best to take 
the cover. So, taking  into account what Mr T has told us, I think  it likely he was aware the 
PPI was something separate from the loan and aware he had a choice about  taking  it. 
Mr T has also said he wouldnt have taken the PPI if he hadnt been pressured  or rushed by 
the adviser. Ive considered this carefully.  I dont doubt that HSBC  discussed how the cover  
could benefit Mr T and discussed  with him what could happen if he didnt have the cover.  I 
also dont doubt  that HSBC encouraged Mr T to consider taking the cover   and advised him 
it was best to take it. But none of this would mean  HSBC went further and pressured Mr T 
into the cover. I take into account  also that Ts recollections were set out many years  after 
the PPI was sold. 
With all Ive said above in mind, on balance what Mr T has said isnt enough on its own to 
make me think he was pressured into taking the cover  and I havent anything  else to make  
me think Mr T was pressured. Taking  everything  into account, I think its more likely Mr T 
knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr T. HSBC hasnt any records from the sale  which isnt surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place and how long ago the loan was repaid - so there  is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. The adviser likely had some 
limited information about  Mr Ts financial circumstances,  related to the approval  of the loan, 
but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr T 
wouldve been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant 
the PPI policy  didnt fully meet Mr Ts needs. For example, theres nothing to suggest HSBC 
considered whether he had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr T given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr T, I do think its more likely  than not the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr T had a need for the policy  it seems likely Mr Ts ability  to continue to meet his loan 
repayments wouldve  been put under strain  if he were  made  redundant or if he were not 
Ref: DRN07844505working for an extended period of time due to disability  even allowing for the work sick 
pay he wouldve been entitled to.
-Although he has said he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
make me think the monthly cost of the policy wasnt affordable for Mr T.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr T. There was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. Mr T couldnt have claimed for work absences arising from the broken  bone 
hes told us about, but Ive seen  nothing to suggest  he missed  any work as a result of 
this at the time, or that this injury was still an issue of concern to him a year later at the 
time of the sale - and so, overall,  Im not persuaded this shouldve  stopped HSBC from 
recommending the cover  to Mr T or that it made the recommendation unsuitable.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr T cancelled the policy early, 
there is nothing to suggest  that Mr T had, at the time of sale,  plans to repay the loan 
early. The purpose  of the loan was not debt consolidation - or anything else which  might  
suggest a need  to repay the loan early or suggest this was likely to happen.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr T sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr T was given a broad description of what  the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, that it would protect  his payments were he unable to work due 
to accident, sickness  or unemployment.). Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its 
unlikely Mr T wouldve taken the policy without any sense of what  it was. Also I think Mr T 
knew the single premium being added  to the loan was £696.12,  the interest added to the 
premium was £215.21, the total cost was £911.33  and the monthly cost £18.86. I say this 
because, based on the samples HSBC  has provided, Im persuaded its likely this 
information wouldve  been, in my view sufficiently clear, on the loan agreement  Mr T signed.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr T agreed  to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr T, Im not persuaded HSBC  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr T. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr T all the information he needed  
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN07844506In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ts representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr T about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr T has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Mr T? To what extent did Mr T suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr T. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr T suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr T would have 
still taken the policy,  had HSBC done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr T, I have  found  the policy was ultimately suitable 
for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr T has suffered loss or damage  
in this case primarily depends on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly,  Mr T 
would have acted  differently or whether he would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mr T says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr T had some  interest in taking PPI. By this I mean, 
when HSBC advised Mr T there was a suitable  product he could buy that would protect his 
loan payments if he were  unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment, he 
Ref: DRN07844507concluded he wanted that product. But he made that decision based on incomplete 
information, meaning what he thought he was getting isnt exactly  what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ts circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. As Ive also 
already explained, the information Mr T was given about the cost was clear.  
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr T would get if he made a 
successful claim  on the policy. But I think its unlikely  his expectations about what the policy 
would pay (an amount  sufficient to meet his loan repayment) were significantly different to 
what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr T thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mr T knew or shouldve  known of 
at the policy  start. It also excluded claims relating to any health issue recurring within 12 
months of the policy start for which Mr T had received treatment  or advice or had been 
referred for investigation during the 12 months  before the policy  start;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr T wasnt 
a permanent employee; 
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr T repaid the loan early and the policy  
was cancelled, so it wouldve  been  more expensive for Mr T to have done so; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Mr T be not only stopped  from doing  his 
own work but stopped from doing  any work.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr T pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr T from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Mr T couldnt have claimed  for time off work related  to the bone  hed broken the year before 
but, taking into account all hes told us about it, Im not persuaded he wouldve thought 
himself at much risk of missing work in future  due to that past issue. Bearing all this in mind,  
I dont think better information  about  this exclusion wouldve put Mr T off taking  the cover. I 
havent seen evidence to suggest Mr T wouldve been caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions  he was in permanent employment,  for example. Also theres no evidence  to 
suggest he intended at the time of sale to repay  the loan early  or needed to do so. 
So, with all Ive said above in mind, I think Mr T still had good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
Ref: DRN07844508would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr T had known  he could only claim for disability  if he were unable to do any work, not just 
unable to do his own work, it might  have played into his thinking about what  to do. And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although, given his circumstances,  on 
balance I think Mr T wouldve still been  interested in taking the cover. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr T would still have taken the policy. The policy was suitable for him, sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits  that would help Mr T 
manage the consequences  were  he made  redundant, or unable to work due to accident or 
sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr T would have taken the 
policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr T would  not have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as result  of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mr T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr T in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr T would not have taken  the policy, I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken  the 
policy had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
Ref: DRN07844509conclude HSBC should pay Mr T compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr T thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described 
the PPI. Whilst I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude  some of HSBCs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr T and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0784450