K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks unhappy that Aviva  Insurance Limited didnt  provide a courtesy car when he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy and he thinks its offer of £15 a day loss of use isnt 
enough.
background
Aviva said in its final response that it only used one company for the provision of hire cars. 
Here there were past issues between that company and Mr K and it wouldnt provide  him 
with a hire car. Aviva has therefore  offered Mr K eight days  loss of use at £15 a day.  
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Aviva  apparently arranged a courtesy  hire car for Mr K. But when he went to collect  it 
the hire company refused  to give Mr K one as he was on that companys do not rent 
program. That isnt something  Aviva is in control of or can be held responsible  for.
Aviva  has offered to pay Mr K £15 a day to cover loss of use. Wed normally  
recommend £10 a day, in line with what the courts usually award. So, Avivas  offer is 
fair and reasonable.
Mr K remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
I think Aviva  acted fairly and in line with its obligations under the policy  by arranging for a 
hire car for Mr K from the third party hire company. And its not Avivas fault if that company 
had had issues with Mr K in the past which resulted in it refusing to provide him with a car.
Because of this Aviva has offered to pay Mr K £15 a day loss of use for the eight days.  I 
think that is fair and I dont think I can reasonably  ask Aviva  to do or offer any more. 
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case. I 
simply leave it to Mr K to decide  of he now wants to accept Avivas offer of a total payment of 
£120 for loss of use.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0200184