K822xcomplaint
Miss B is unhappy with the interest  and charges Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
(trading as Very) applied to her catalogue shopping account. And shes unhappy with the 
customer service  it gave  her in relation to this. 
background 
I issued my provision decision on 16 September 2019, a copy  of which  is attached to this 
decision. In summary,  I agreed with Miss B that there were a number  of customer  service  
failings and recommended  Very pay her £100 compensation. But I didnt recommend Very 
do anything further.
Very didnt provide  any further comments or evidence in response to my provisional  view. 
Miss B did provide further comments. Ive summarised what I see to be her key points:
Very has now defaulted Miss Bs account,  and this is unfair  because  her complaint is 
with our service. So Very should remove  the default and late payment markers its 
added to her credit  record.
Miss B was willing  to make payments but Very didnt provide the account breakdown  
it promised. And the simplified breakdown it provided later didnt detail what shed  
purchased or when  interest was charged.  So Miss B didnt know  what she was 
paying for and Very has made  it difficult for her to find out.
Miss B would like me to point out where in its final response letter Very details what  
shes purchased  and when it charged her interest. 
Very failed to make  promised call-backs.  Miss B would like confirmation of how many 
times Very did this, as well as how many  times  it tried to call her.
Very hasnt tried contacting Miss B for two years  but has been  contacting  her 
regularly now her complaint is with our service. 
Miss B told Very several times  shed  changed  address but it didnt update her records  
- she updated her address online after Very told her to.
Miss B would like to know why Very has now started charging  her interest.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not departing  from 
the conclusion  I reached in my provisional decision. Miss B has provided further comments,  
and Ill explain why I dont  think these change the outcome of her complaint.
late payment and default markers
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that Very has a duty to accurately report how its 
customers manager their accounts,  and that Miss Bs isnt disputing  she last made  a 
payment to her account in April 2017. So Im satisfied Very hasnt acted unfairly in adding  
late payment markers to her credit record. 
Miss B is unhappy Very has now defaulted her account. My provisional  decision said I didnt 
think it was unfair of Very to not default  her account  so far, since  a default would very 
significantly affect Miss Bs credit  record, and she was already worried about this.
Ref: DRN08378392But Very now defaulting Miss Bs account  isnt something our service  has considered. And 
Im not aware that Very has had a chance  to investigate and address Miss Bs concerns 
about the default. Miss B could raise a new and separate complaint about the default if she 
chooses.
customer service
Miss B has said again that Very didnt give her the account breakdown it promised, and that 
the simplified breakdown it did later provide didnt show  what shed purchased  or when Very 
charged her interest. My provisional  decision explained why I thought  Very had made 
reasonable efforts to give Miss B information  about her account.  
Miss B has asked me to clarify where in Verys final response letter it detailed her purchases 
or the interest  it charged. For clarity, my provisional  decision  said However Verys records  
suggest that after Miss Bs account was opened, it had regularly provided her with account 
statements. And from the call recordings, Very tried on several occasions from July 2017  
onwards to explain the account balance, interest  and charges  to Miss B. It explained these 
again in its final response in November  2018. 
So the statements  Very provided Miss B with over the years  showed the purchases shed 
made. And pages  three  and four of Verys final response letter dated 27 November 2018  
explained not only the circumstances  under  which it added interest  and charges but also the 
particular months in which it added interest  and charges to Miss Bs account. 
But I also said in my provisional decision that Very caused Miss B confusion  and frustration 
by being inconsistent in what it told her about the interest  on her account.  This was one of 
the reasons I awarded her £100  compensation.
Miss B has again said Very promised her call-backs  it didnt make.  Miss B would like me to 
confirm how many times it did this together  with how many times it tried to call her. Miss B 
says Very hasnt  tried contacting her for two years, but is contacting  her regularly now her 
complaint is with our service. 
I can see that over the last two years there have been very many calls between  Miss B and 
Very, so Very has been  in contact with Miss B even if it didnt initiate the calls. In my 
provisional decision I thought there were times when Very failed to make call-backs it had 
promised, which was the other reason  I awarded  her £100 compensation. I know Miss B 
feels strongly about the customer  service Very gave her, but Ive taken a view of the service  
provided as a whole.  I remain  of the view that £100  fairly compensates  Miss B for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.
Miss B says she told Very several  times that shed changed address but it didnt update  her 
records. She says she updated her address  online after Very told her to.
The complaint Miss B brought to our service  regarding  her change of address was that in 
July 2017 Very had incorrectly sent its final response letter  to her previous address. I 
addressed this in my provisional decision - I said Very had sent its response to the address it 
held for Miss B at that time, and that Miss B was still giving Very her previous address at the 
start of the call on 23 October 2017.  
From the telephone  calls, Miss B first raised  the matter of changing address in that call of 
Ref: DRN0837839323 October 2017, some months after the final response was issued. Then  the next mention 
of an incorrect address was during a call in November 2018, when Miss B told Very she 
changed address  some  time ago and had already told it this several times. Whether Very did 
or didnt  update her address at some later time,  Im still satisfied that in July 2017  it sent the 
final response letter to the address it held for her at that time.
interest and charges
Miss B says shed like to know  why Very has now started charging her interest. This is 
something Very can decide  to do because,  as I said in my provisional decision, Very can 
choose to put interest and charges on hold but isnt obliged to even when there is a 
complaint underway.  Miss B hasnt  provided  any evidence to suggest that the interest Verys  
currently charging is incorrect,  so Im not asking Very to do anything  about that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  should pay Miss B £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2019. 
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Provisional decision of 16 September 2019
complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the interest  and charges  Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (trading as 
Very) applied  to her catalogue  shopping  account. And shes unhappy  with the customer service it 
gave her in relation to this. 
Ref: DRN08378394background
In 2015, a Very catalogue  shopping account was opened in Miss Bs name. In May 2016 Miss B used 
her account  to buy a fridge freezer on a Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL) basis  this meant interest on 
the fridge would only be added to Miss Bs account if she didnt pay for the fridge  in full within twelve 
months. Miss B already had an account balance, and she says that over the next year she carried  on 
making monthly payments  towards  that balance. 
Miss B last made  a payment  to her account in April 2017.  
In June 2017  Very added £136.05 of interest to her account. Miss B didnt think  that was right so she 
contacted Very and it opened a complaint  for her. 
Very sent its final response in July 2017. It said it had correctly applied the BNPL  interest, that it had 
advised Miss B when she bought the fridge  that shed need to allocate payments to the BNPL  part of 
her account,  and that it had made the interest free periods expiry date available on Miss Bs online 
account for her to check. It said the statements  it sent Miss B in April 2017  (by post) and May 2017 
(by email) set out the BNPL balance shed need to pay in order to avoid paying  interest.  And it said its 
account terms and conditions, available  on its website, explained payment allocation and how BNPL 
interest could  be avoided. 
Miss B says she didnt  know  Very had sent this response, as shed moved  house.  She says Very 
gave her poor customer service from this point including  not calling her back  when it said it would, not 
providing her with an account breakdown,  and not telling  her it had sent a final response. And Miss B 
was unhappy Very charged her administration  fees and interest while her complaint was outstanding. 
She says all this caused her inconvenience and distress because she had to make  lots of calls to 
Very, and the markers it put on her credit  record affected  her plans to obtain a mortgage.
In November 2018 Miss B complained to Very about its customer  service. It gave a further final 
response later that month which said, in summary:
It sent its July 2017 final response to the address it held for Miss B and which Miss B had 
confirmed was correct  in her calls with Very around that time - Miss B didnt mention  shed 
moved address until August 2018 and didnt update her address on her online account  until 
November 2018. 
It had reviewed the customer  service it had given Miss B but didnt find any failings. 
It revisited Miss Bs BNPL query, and explained how BNPL and payment allocations  worked 
and why it had added BNPL interest to Miss Bs account.  
It explained it had added charges and interest to Miss Bs account  because  shed made  
purchases and missed payments.
Miss Bs account was in arrears because shed last made a payment in April 2017, and she 
hadnt kept to the repayment arrangement it had agreed with her in 
August 2018.  Very asked Miss B to contact its arrears team about  this urgently.
When Miss B opened  her account,  she consented to Very reporting  on how she managed her 
account. And what it had reported  was accurate.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with this so she asked our service to investigate. Our investigator thought  Very 
had correctly  sent the July 2017 final response letter,  and was right to apply the BNPL  interest. And 
he said he hadnt seen  anything to suggest that the balance  showing on Miss Bs account was 
incorrect. So he didnt  think  it would be fair to ask Very to do anything further,  but he did share  with 
Miss B the simplified account breakdown Very had provided.
There was further communication between Miss B, our service and Very. Miss B accepted she 
needed to pay the BNPL interest, but said she wouldnt be in this situation if Very had given her the 
account breakdown shed first asked for in 2017. Miss B questioned  the delivery charges applied  to 
her account  and why her account balance  had grown. And she was still unhappy with Verys  customer 
service and wanted our service to listen to her calls with it. Miss B explained shed set up a repayment 
Ref: DRN08378395arrangement with Very in August 2018  on the understanding  it would give her an account  breakdown, 
but it didnt and so she cancelled  the Direct Debit. 
Very told us Miss Bs balance grew because it had applied interest and charges  in line with the terms 
and conditions of her account. It said the delivery  charges were the total amount Miss B had been 
charged for deliveries  since  opening her account. And that while it had continued to charge  her 
interest as well as a £15 unpaid Direct Debit fee, it had put administration charges  on hold while it 
looked into Miss Bs complaints as a gesture of goodwill. It said it had posted  statements and final 
response letters to the address it held for Miss B at those times, and that her statements had been 
available for her to view online. Very provided recordings of its calls with Miss B.
Miss B said Very was acting inconsistently, as it had in fact put interest on hold for her account.  She 
said it would therefore  be unfair if she had to pay any of the fees or interest Very added to her 
account in the year after she complained.  
After considering the further comments and information from both parties, our investigator said his 
view remained mostly unchanged. But he now thought Very had sometimes given Miss B poor service 
by not always calling her back or providing an account breakdown when it said it would. He asked 
Very to pay Miss B £100 for this, which it agreed to.
Miss B didnt accept this and, after talking  again with Very, she was increasingly concerned about  the 
missed payment markers she says Very added to her credit record.  Miss B asked for an ombudsman  
to review her complaint, and so its been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Before I set out my findings, Id like to make clear that while Ive considered everything both parties 
have said, I wont address every point each party has made.  Instead, I will only address what I see to 
be the key points.
BNPL interest
Miss B says she now accepts she needs to pay the BNPL interest Very has added to her account. As 
thats no longer  in dispute, I wont consider or comment on that further.
customer service
Miss B complains  Very sent its first final response to her previous address, and that in calls 
afterwards it didnt tell her it had been sent.  
Based on the call recordings  and Verys  system  records, Very sent this final response in 
July 2017 to the address  it held for Miss B at that time. Miss B gave this address  at the start of the call 
on 23 October 2017, so she was still using this address with Very several months after it sent the final 
response. From Verys  system records, Miss B updated  her address details in November 2018.
Very could  only reasonably  be expected to contact Miss B using the address information it held for 
her. And it was Miss Bs responsibility to let Very know shed moved house. Given that, it wouldnt be 
reasonable to say Very did anything wrong  here. In any case, when 
Miss B called Very on 23 October 2017 and said shed  not received its response,  Very read that 
response to her and explained she could bring her complaint  to our service. 
Ref: DRN08378396Miss B complains  Very didnt give her the account breakdown shed been asking  for since 2017.  
However Verys records suggest that after Miss Bs account was opened, it had regularly  provided her 
with account statements. And from the call recordings,  Very tried on several occasions  from July 2017 
onwards to explain  the account balance, interest and charges  to Miss B. It explained these again  in its 
final response in November 2018.
For those  reasons, I think Very has made reasonable efforts to provide Miss B with the information  
she needed  in order to understand what  was happening with her account, albeit it wasnt in the format 
she might  have preferred  after she felt she had cause to complain. I note Very sent a simplified 
account breakdown to our service in March 2019, which we shared  with Miss B. 
Miss B complains  Very has repeatedly failed  to call her back when it said it would, and that shes had 
to call it many times. From the evidence  both Very and Miss B have  provided, it seems that since 
2017 theres been at least 17 calls between them, totalling at least four hours. 
The call recordings suggest  there were occasions  when Miss B called Very to go over things it had 
already answered in its final responses of July 2017 and November 2018.  But they also suggest  there 
were occasions when  Very promised to call Miss B back and didnt. I think this would have caused her 
some frustration and inconvenience,  which Ill return to. 
interest and charges
Miss B says she doesnt know what the £63.84 of delivery charges  are for. However, her account  
statements suggest these  relate  to items purchased  on Miss Bs account since it opened in 2015.
Miss B complains  Very has been inconsistent in putting  charges and interest on hold for her account, 
and that it should have put these on hold while  her complaint was ongoing.  
Very can choose to put interest and charges on hold, but its not obliged to even when  there is a 
complaint underway.  The terms and conditions Miss B agreed to when she opened her account 
entitled Very to apply these to her account.  And Ive seen no evidence to suggest  it applied these 
incorrectly. But I do think Very has been inconsistent here, and Ill explain why. 
In a call on 6 July 2017, Very at first tells Miss B that interest and charges  will be put on hold because  
her account  is in late arrears. A few minutes later the same  agent clarifies this for Miss B and tells her 
interest and charges will in fact still be added to her account, though it does then remove one £12 
charge from her account. And in a call on 23 October 2017 two separate agents  tell Miss B interest 
and charges arent routinely  put on hold because a complaint has been made. 
But Miss Bs account statements  suggest  Very did stop adding interest to her account around 
September 2017. While the statements from February 2018 onwards list an estimated  interest for 
next statement amount,  that amount isnt added  to the account balance.  I say this because  Miss Bs 
account balance  remained  the same  from September  2017  onwards,  except for the £15 unpaid  Direct 
Debit fee added in September  2018. 
So I think Very has been inconsistent in what its told Miss B about the interest on her account. I cant  
say this inconsistency caused Miss B a financial loss, as shes paid less in interest and charges.  But I 
think it again  probably caused her confusion and frustration, which  Ill return to later.
credit record
Miss Bs accounts statements suggest she last made a payment to her account in 
April 2017. 
Miss B says shes been trying to pay Very since she first complained in 2017, and that it told her the 
account was frozen and she wouldnt have to make payment until her complaint was resolved. And 
that she didnt keep up the August 2018 repayment arrangement because  she thought Very hadnt 
Ref: DRN08378397properly explained what it was asking her to pay for, and she didnt  know Very was marking all this on 
her credit record.
I dont think it would  be reasonable for me to say Very acted unfairly in marking  Miss Bs credit record.  
I say that because from the evidence Ive seen, I think Very was entitled to ask Miss B for payment. 
And the call recordings show that on several  occasions from July 2017 onwards Very told Miss B her 
account was in arrears and that shed  need to make payment.
The call recordings also show Miss B told Very on a number of different  occasions  that she wouldnt 
make payment until it had resolved things  to her satisfaction by calling her back  or by providing an 
account breakdown. But I dont think Very was unreasonable to still expect her to pay during  these 
times.
Very has a duty to accurately report how its customers manage their accounts. Miss B isnt disputing 
shes missed  a significant number of payments, so I cant say Very acted unfairly  by marking this on 
her credit record. Despite the missed payments it seems Very hasnt yet defaulted Miss Bs account. 
In this particular case, I cant say Very has acted  unfairly  in not defaulting  Miss Bs account  so far. I 
say that because a default would very significantly affect  her credit record,  and I understand shes 
already concerned the late payment markers  Very added to her credit record will affect  her plans to 
obtain a mortgage. 
As Ive said,  I think Very caused Miss B frustration  and inconvenience on occasions  by not calling  her 
back and by being inconsistent regarding  interest and charges. I think  £100 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for that, so Im intending  to say Very should pay that to 
Miss B. But Im not intending to ask Very to do anything further.
If Miss B is experiencing any financial difficulties, she could discuss this with Very or with a debt 
advice organisation such as the Citizens Advice  Bureau,  which I understand Miss B is already in 
contact with.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  to say Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should pay 
Miss B £100  compensation.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0837839