K821x#15complaint
H, a limited company,  complains that errors by American Express Services Europe Limited 
meant its business card was declined during a business event. H is represented  by its 
director, who Ill call Mr B. Mr B says this caused huge embarrassment and the loss of a 
business deal worth about £350,000.
background
American Express says it sent a replacement business card to Mr B in March  2018. Mr B 
says he didnt receive the card and wasnt aware  that it had been  issued.  He says he 
continued to use his existing card until August 2018. The card was declined  when he was at 
a business event, causing significant embarrassment. Despite assurances from American 
Express that the card would work  it was declined  again. Mr B says potential business 
associates told him they didnt believe H had the necessary  resources and a valuable 
business deal was lost.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said American  
Express accepted  it made  errors. It said it sent correspondence  about the replacement card 
to Mr B in February and sent a new card to Mr B in March 2018. American Express blocked  
payments because the new card sent wasnt activated. Once  it knew what had happened,  
American Express sent a new card to Mr B via recorded delivery. 
However, American Express gave Mr B incorrect information when he first called it about the 
card being  declined: it said him the card wouldnt be declined again. This led to further 
trouble and embarrassment when Mr B tried to use the card.  The investigator said American  
Express should pay £400 compensation. 
American Express said while it generally  agreed  with the investigators recommendation, 
£200 would  be fair and reasonable  compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Mr B pointed out he didnt  just rely on what he was told by American  Express  he used the 
card for a small  transaction  to check it worked before his next business event.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
In February 2018  American Express wrote to some of its business customers, including H, 
saying it would issue replacement business cards. In March 2018  it sent a new card to H. 
American Express says it sent reminders to all customers, including H, that hadnt  activated 
the new cards by May 2018.
American Express says Mr Bs card was blocked  at the end of July 2018 as the new card 
hadnt been activated within the time limit.
Ref: DRN05359802Mr B says he didnt receive  the new card. He continued to use his existing  business  card.
In August  2018  Mr Bs card was declined when he was at a business event. He called 
American Express on 22 August 2018.  American  Express said a card had been issued in 
March. Mr B said his card hadnt  expired  and asked that the matter be escalated.  A manager 
called Mr B back on 24 August. He didnt tell Mr B his card was blocked. He told Mr B to call 
again if the card was declined. He added some  points to Hs account  for the inconvenience.
Mr B attended another business  event  on 25 August  and the business card was declined 
again. He contacted American Express.  This time, it identified the problem and arranged for 
a new card to be sent to Mr B.
did American Express make an error?
Its unfortunate that Mr B didnt receive the replacement card and related  letters.  But theres  
nothing to suggest American  Express  made  any errors when issuing  the card or letters. I 
dont think American Express could have known these werent received.
I dont think American Express made  an error when it blocked Mr Bs card at the end of July 
2018. Its explained that this was because the card hadnt been  activated, despite a 
reminder. So while I appreciate it was embarrassing for Mr B the first time his business card 
was declined, I dont  think this was due to an error  by American Express. 
But I think American Express  did make  an error  when Mr B called.  It should  have told Mr B 
his card was blocked and needed to be replaced. Instead, a manager called Mr B and said 
he should contact  it again if his card was declined. Mr B was able to use the business card 
for some transactions. I think it was reasonable for Mr B to rely on what he was told by 
American Express. This led to his card being  declined again at a business event  causing  
avoidable embarrassment and inconvenience.
what compensation is fair and reasonable?
This complaint is from H. As a company, H doesnt feel upset or embarrassment. I cant 
usually award compensation to a third party (such as Mr B) or for a third partys upset. But 
Hs director  Mr B  was caused  trouble  and inconvenience and I think H should  receive  
compensation for this.
American Express agreed to pay compensation but says £400  is too much. It says £200  is 
fair and reasonable. 
Ive considered the circumstances  here.  Mr B was at a business event when the card was 
declined. And he was overseas. He contacted American Express and was led to believe the 
card wouldnt  be declined.  A manager gave  assurances. Yet the card was declined  the next 
day, at a business event. Mr B had to contact American Express again. I think this would 
have caused inconvenience  especially as Mr B was overseas.  In the circumstances, I think 
£400 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN05359803my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order American Express  Services  Europe 
Limited to pay £400 to H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0535980