K820x#14complaint
Mr R through his representative B complains that DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance  Company 
Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably  by not accepting his claim under a legal expenses 
insurance policy. He wants  his claim accepted.
background
Mr R owned buy to let properties which neighboured each other, and had legal expenses 
insurance in place with DAS in respect  of one of the properties, property C (the other 
property, property D, had legal expenses insurance with another  insurer). The policies were 
taken out through a broker. Mr R said the tenants of a third property were trespassing  over 
property C and there was a dispute  over rights  of way and rights held in respect of property 
D which were  allegedly being interfered with too (which predated the purchase of property C, 
but Mr R said worsened  just before and after he bought property C). He wanted the matter  
dealt with under the policy but DAS declined cover.
Mr R complained to DAS. It said that Mr R bought property C after the claims first arose (as 
hed had a claim  against  the original owners  of property C and the tenants of the third 
property earlier due to his ownership  of property D). DAS said that Mr R bought  the property 
before taking out the policy three days later and as he knew of the claims beforehand, they 
were excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy.  Mr R thought this was unfair as 
he couldnt have  got cover  for the claims until he owned property C (despite having claims 
due to his ownership  of property D), matters had worsened after he bought property C, and 
the other insurer had declined  cover  too. DAS said that the policy  didnt cover property D. It 
offered £100 compensation  for the delay in dealing with Mr Rs complaint.
B complained to us. The investigator  noted  that the policy with DAS didnt actually cover 
property C. Her view was that the dispute  didnt  arise  until 22 January 2019 as that was 
when Mr R bought  property C. But the investigator  pointed out that the policy wasnt  taken 
out until three days later and said it was fair and reasonable for DAS to decline cover on that 
basis as it was then a pre-existing dispute. She said the alleged increase in nuisance from 
April 2019, which was when the tenants of the third party created a limited company, didnt 
change this position.
B disagreed. It said DAS shouldve responded to the investigators view and the real date 
that the claims arose was in April 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to DAS, Im also referring  to 
its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN09819642The policy schedule doesnt appear to cover  property  C at all, and this has been confirmed 
by the broker. Putting  this issue to one side as mistakes can be corrected (and I think  its 
more likely than not Mr R did want to insure property C, rather  than his home,  under a 
commercial insurance policy), the key issue is when did the claims which  could be brought  to 
protect property C arise? Property D isnt insured with DAS so its claims are only relevant in 
so far as they affect property  C.
According to the events  set out by Mr R and B, property Cs original owners had a claim 
against the third propertys tenants  well before the policy was taken out. And Mr R knew  this 
at the time he bought the property in January 2019. But it is the claims Mr R can bring as 
owner of property C thats relevant.
The discussion about when  the tenants  set up a limited company is largely irrelevant for two 
reasons. Actions  undertaken  prior to the incorporation of a company can be treated as acts 
of that company if certain  criteria are met. But much more important is the definition  of date 
of occurrence  of a claim under  the terms and conditions of the policy.  The policy defines the 
date of occurrence of a claim as the first date when a event that leads to a claim happens  
in Mr Rs case, this is when the tenants of the third property acted in such a way that he had 
grounds to claim, regardless of the size or severity of the claim. Mr R told DAS this was 
1 November 2018, when the tenants  started the renovation  work.  This is consistent with the 
information given  by B. And if Im wrong about this point, certainly the first date that Mr R 
could bring the claim in respect of property C is 22 January 2018 as the events  that could 
lead to a claim had arisen by then (and Mr R could  then sue as the owner of property C).
The policy also says that the date of occurrence must be within  the period of the policy.  In 
Mr Rs case, this date is before the start of the policy. And the worsening situation, 
particularly from April 2019,  doesnt  change the fact that the first date of occurrence that led 
to the claim was before 25 January 2019,  the start date of the policy.
In all the circumstances of this case,  and having considered  the evidence,  I dont  think  that it 
was unfair  or unreasonable for DAS to decline the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 
10 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0981964