K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs M or Barclays sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do, if it hasnt  already done so 
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Barclays  should  also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest she paid because 
of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs M the difference between  
what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt been 
over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should  also pay Mrs M 8%* simple interest if she paid off 
her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Its my understanding that it has already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject 
my decision  before 23 June 2019.  
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN02292302copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken  out in 1997. 
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive currently decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she may not remember this given  that the sale took 
place over 20 years ago.
Ref: DRN02292303I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms credit card application. It has a section for PPI 
with Yes. and No.  options to either accept or decline PPI. A tick has been placed next 
to the yes option and Mrs M has signed the overall  app to agree  to what she was taking out.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. Ive carefully 
considered that Mrs M has told us she had a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) at the 
time of sale. This is relevant as this particular PPI policy,  broadly speaking,  excluded claims  
related to PEMCs.
Our adjudicator asked for more information on the PEMC in January  2019 but no further 
information about it was received. Barclays have also said that theyve asked for further 
details but none has been  provided. Based on what Ive been told 
so far about Mrs Ms PEMC and the lack of information about the impact it had on her life, I 
cant fairly say that the recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable or that the policy  wasnt 
right for her.
It also doesnt seem that she was affected  by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover based on what  shes told us about 
her existing means of making her credit card repayments if she was unwell and unable to 
work or if she was made unemployed.  
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
Which means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Barclays  didnt tell 
Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, but these points dont currently change my decision.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does  have  to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  As it has already done this, I dont intend to award  any 
further compensation. 
If either Mrs M or Barclays Bank  UK PLC have anything  further to add, they should  do so by 
9 June 2019 . Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02292304
Ref: DRN0229230