K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her an interest only 
mortgage.
background
Ms L took out a £50,000 mortgage in 2006  on an interest only basis over a term of 13 years. 
The purpose of this mortgage was for Ms L to repay part of a previous mortgage she held 
with another party. This then enabled her to purchase her current property.
In 2007, Ms L took out a further advance for £5,500. This was taken out on a capital 
repayment basis over a term of 13 years. Some of these funds were to be used for debt 
consolidation.
Ms L received a letter from Halifax in 2017  which informed her that her mortgage was due to 
repaid within  the next couple  of years.  She raised  concerns with Halifax  at this time as she 
believed that her mortgage would just run and run. She said she was given advice  by one 
of the advisers  at Halifax and now feels her mortgage was mis-sold.
Halifax considered  what Ms L had said but they didnt  agree that the mortgage was mis-sold 
so Ms L brought the complaint to our service. It was looked at by one of our investigators 
who didnt agree that the complaint should  be upheld. He was satisfied that Halifax hadnt 
mis-sold the mortgage.
Ms L didnt  agree. She made the following comments:
she said she was told her mortgage would just run and run and had no reason to 
doubt what the adviser had said
she said Halifax claimed  she had an ISA in place to repay the mortgage but this was 
incorrect. She said no payments have  been  made to any savings plan
she said if she had not been  given this false sense of security,  she would  have had a 
family member as a joint borrower  or sought a cheaper property  or not purchased at 
all
As Ms L didnt agree she asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman  so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN06661972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Ms L, I 
agree with what the investigator has said, for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
suitability of the mortgage
The mortgage was taken out quite  a long time ago so its understandable that some 
information is not going to be available. And Ms L is saying that she relied  on the information 
that was discussed with her by the mortgage  adviser. I think  based on what  Ms L is saying 
its possible that she didnt have a repayment  vehicle  in place to pay off the mortgage at the 
end of the term, but this alone  doesnt  mean  that the mortgage was mis-sold.  
The initial mortgage  application notes show that Ms Ls annual  income was £18,120. When 
Ms L applied  for the further  advance a few months later, her income is broken down as 
£13,000 from Tesco and around £5,000 from tax credits. Ms L has said that Halifax  noted  
her income down incorrectly. But I havent  seen anything  to suggest that the information that 
was recorded  by them was incorrect, especially as both applications indicate a similar 
income. Because of this, there isnt anything that makes me think that the interest  only 
payments were unaffordable for Ms L.
Ms L told us that when  she took her original  mortgage out, she needed  a new home for her 
and her two daughters. From my understanding they were dependent on her at that time. If 
Ms L had taken out a repayment  mortgage  rather than this interest only one, the monthly 
payments would have  been more expensive for her. As Ive already mentioned, Ms L took 
this mortgage  out and part of this mortgage was for her to repay part of a previous mortgage 
she held with another party. This then enabled  her to purchase  her current  property.
From the available information, Im persuaded Ms L wanted to keep her monthly outgoings 
as low as possible.  An interest only mortgage provides the lowest  possible monthly  payment 
and allows  for flexibility  in terms of how it is repaid. A capital repayment mortgage wouldve 
led to a contractual requirement for Ms L to pay a specified amount towards reducing the 
capital. This wouldve given her less flexibility  and wouldnt achieve the goal of having  the 
lowest possible monthly outgoings.
For these reasons, I cant say with confidence that Ms L would have opted for a repayment  
mortgage. Based on what I have  seen, I think a repayment mortgage  wouldve  also been 
unaffordable for her. And the fact that she later changed her further  advance  to interest only 
makes me further think this was the case. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to say an 
unaffordable mortgage is what Ms L shouldve  been advised to take.
Ref: DRN06661973The mortgage that was taken out in 2006 was recommended by a Halifax adviser. Ive 
looked at the mortgage  offer from 2006  and it says that Ms L was using an ISA to pay off the 
mortgage at the end of the term. This would have been a plausible  repayment  strategy  at the 
time, and Halifax accepted it.
Ive also had a look at the application notes that Halifax  hold from the time that Ms L took out 
the mortgage. The notes suggest  that Ms L had investments to cover the interest only 
balance in full once the term had ended  which could have been an ISA as it is a type of 
investment. Halifax wouldnt have needed  evidence  of this, but it needed to know  that Ms L 
understood she needed something in place to pay the outstanding  balance off at the end of 
the term and had a credible plan to do so. I think its most likely the ISA was the repayment 
vehicle discussed  between Ms L and the adviser at the time. 
The obligations of an adviser when recommending a mortgage are to make sure that within 
the scope of their service,  and based on what they have been  told by the customer, that the 
mortgage being recommended  is appropriate to their needs and circumstances. They  
shouldnt make a recommendation if none  of the available options are appropriate. A 
mortgage adviser is not required to give advice on the repayment vehicle itself, though it 
should have made sure the borrower  had a credible plan for repayment. This is a decision 
for a consumer to make  and discuss with the adviser.
I do appreciate that Ms L has said she didnt have, or put, a repayment vehicle in place in 
order to pay off the outstanding balance off at the end. But, looking at what she told Halifax  
about her circumstances at the time,  her options  were limited. She needed to repay part of 
an existing outstanding mortgage and be able to purchase a property fit for her and her two 
dependent daughters. Ive already set out above why I dont think a repayment mortgage  
wouldve been appropriate for her. This leaves the option of no recommendation at all, or an 
interest only mortgage. 
If Halifax had said they couldnt make a recommendation, I think that its possible that Ms L 
would have chosen an interest  only mortgage anyway, based on her circumstances at the 
time. For example, if no recommendation  was made  she couldve thought about renting a 
property. But it seems  a comparable property fit for her and her daughters needs wouldve 
been more expensive on a monthly  basis, than taking an interest only mortgage. And Ive 
said its likely a repayment  mortgage  wasnt affordable. Because  of this, I think that an 
interest only mortgage was most appropriate to Ms Ls circumstances at the time.  
I also need to consider  what  other  options  might have been available  to Ms L at the time that 
she approached  Halifax for her mortgage.
Ms L has said that had she have  known that the balance outstanding on her mortgage would 
need to be repaid, she would have bought a cheaper property or arranged for another  party  
to be added onto the mortgage. I appreciate what  Ms L is saying but I dont think this would 
make a difference. I say this because a portion of the borrowing that Ms L took out was used 
to repay  part of a previous mortgage  that she held jointly  with another party. Some  of this 
money was used to pay off existing debts that she had. So I cant safely  say that she would 
have borrowed any less than she did. And because Ms L went  on to consolidate further 
debts, this supports  my understanding that her goal was to keep costs  down.  The interest 
only mortgage provided the lowest possible monthly payment, so I think  it met her main  need 
at the time.
Ref: DRN06661974Based on what I have reviewed, Im satisfied that the mortgage wasnt  mis-sold by Halifax.  
And I think that even  if Halifax  had recommended  something different, its likely she would 
still have wanted  to take one out rather than not buy her home.  
The further advance  that was taken  out was granted  on a repayment basis. The sale at the 
time was non-advised, which means that Halifax didnt recommend a particular product or 
repayment method  to Ms L. They had to give her enough information  to enable her to make 
an informed choice as to what product she wanted  to take out. It was then for her to decide  
whether it was right for her  based on her own circumstances at the time. I think  the 
information Halifax provided to her was clear, fair and not misleading. So Im satisfied Halifax 
provided her with enough information to make  her own informed  choice.
I can also see that a little while after taking the further advance, Ms L asked for it to be 
changed from repayment to interest only. So it would appear that Ms L still wanted to keep 
her monthly payments as low as possible.
the mortgage term
Ms L has said that she believed that her mortgage term would just run and run based on 
the conversation  she had with the adviser  at Halifax. Its difficult  to say exactly  what was 
discussed at the time. So I have to base  my decision on what  I think it likely to have 
happened, while considering the information  I have available to me.
The information on the application for both the main mortgage and the further advance 
indicates that the term was set for 13 years. Ms L has said that she is aware of this, but she 
still thought the term would  run and run even  after this term had finished. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that this would be the case. This isnt how mortgages generally  work 
and if a term is set, this is when the mortgage expires and any balance outstanding  (if on an 
interest only basis), would need  to be repaid. 
Halifax also sent a letter to Ms L when she changed  her further advance  from repayment to 
interest only. This letter explained that Ms L would need to make  arrangements to pay off 
her outstanding balance at the end of the term. Ive also seen annual mortgage statements 
that were sent out to Ms L which also highlight the same thing.
I can appreciate that Ms L may genuinely have thought that her mortgage term would run on, 
but I havent seen anything  to make me think that she was told this, or that this in fact was 
the case.
As this mortgage is still outstanding, I would suggest that Ms L keeps an open  dialogue  with 
Halifax to discuss options available to her to repay  the balance. She may also wish to seek 
independent advice on what options are available to her overall (a service  she may incur  a 
cost for). The investigator who looked at this case provided Ms L with some contact numbers 
of some organisations that may be able to help her.
I know that Ms L will find my decision disappointing but Im satisfied that Halifax have  treated  
her fairly.
Ref: DRN06661975my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0666197