K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that Swinton Group Ltd mis-sold him a central  heating  insurance policy. 
background
Mr C bought a central heating insurance policy in 2015. The policy  was sold by Swinton  and 
underwritten by another company. 
Mr C wanted to make a claim under the policy  when  his boiler  broke down in March  2018. Mr 
C tried to contact Swinton  about the claim but says he was unable to get in touch. He visited 
two branches but found theyd closed down. Mr C instructed his own gas engineer who 
advised the boiler was beyond economic repair and he therefore had it replaced, at a cost of 
£1,850. 
When Mr C finally spoke to Swinton on 26 April 2018, it incorrectly told him it would send  him 
a claim form. A few days  later, Swinton provided him with the contact  details of the 
underwriters so he could  lodge a claim. Mr C then subsequently also had trouble contacting  
the underwriters.  The underwriter  told Mr C the policy would not cover  a new boiler and it 
would also not cover the claim, as he had had work  done before contacting  it. The 
underwriters apparently offered him £150 compensation for the difficulties he had contacting 
them. 
Mr C was very unhappy with the service provided  by Swinton and says he was told when he 
bought the policy that it would cover anything that went wrong with his boiler. He was then 
told he could not claim because he had work done before contacting the underwriter but it 
had already acknowledged  that it was at fault for the fact he could not get in contact. 
Swinton says the policy was probably  sold in a branch, it has no record  of the sale but Mr C 
would have been provided  with the policy documents setting out the relevant details of the 
underwriters and the details of cover.  Swinton says it received no emails  from Mr C and 
there was no problem with its telephone lines, so it doesnt know  why Mr C had trouble 
contacting it. 
One of our investigators  looked into the case. He explained that Swinton is the broker  and 
not responsible  for handling  claims under a policy.  The investigator didnt think  there was 
enough evidence  that Mr C was mis-led about  the cover when he took the policy out. 
However, he recommended that Swinton pay Mr C a total of £100  compensation,  as it had 
not given him correct  information and assistance  when  he had contacted it in April 2018. 
Mr C did not accept the investigators  assessment.  He says he spent £1,850 on a new
boiler believing it was covered by the insurance. The recommendation by the investigator 
goes no way far enough to compensate him for this or the time involved. Mr C also provide 
details of the delay between the offer of compensation already made by Swinton and the 
cheque (which he confirms he has not yet cashed and which  is now out of date). 
Swinton doesnt  accept  the investigators assessment either. It says it was generous  in 
offering Mr C £50 compensation, which it did only in recognition of his personal 
circumstances. Its only failing was in telling Mr C it would send out a claim form to him on 26 
April 2018 but this did not prevent him making a claim to the underwriter and did not cause 
him any detriment other than having  to phone  again  a few days  later.  
 
Ref: DRN08257872As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant make  any finding about whether the underwriter  should have paid towards  Mr Cs new 
boiler or not as this decision is only about the role that Swinton played as a broker,  in selling 
the policy to Mr C and in answering his attempt to claim  under the policy. Any complaint 
about the refusal of the claim needs to be addressed to the underwriter  directly.
Those selling  insurance, such  as Swinton  in this case, have a responsibility to
provide clear  information about what is being  provided and any other key information  to
allow a consumer to make an informed choice about what they are buying. 
Mr C says Swinton mis-sold this policy to him, as it told him that anything  that went  wrong 
with his boiler would be covered. However,  no policy of insurance will cover every  single 
eventuality. Cover is usually provided for certain specified insured events, subject to terms 
and conditions. There is no contemporaneous documentary evidence  from the sale of the 
policy. However, Swinton  says the policy documents were  sent to Mr C after he first took out 
the policy in 2015 and each year at renewal. I have no reason to doubt  that. 
The policy documents are reasonably clear about most aspects of the cover  provided and 
work required to repair  a boiler is covered  up to a cost of £500  or £1,500,  depending  on the 
level of cover purchased.  The policy doesnt say what would happen if the boiler is deemed 
to be beyond repair. However, very few central heating insurance policies will cover the cost 
of a replacement  boiler.  The ones that do, will generally only cover  the replacement  of a 
boiler that is less than seven years old, or that the insurer has installed itself.  Some policies 
will cover a limited  contribution towards the cost of a new boiler, however, in the event a 
claim for repair is not covered. But, as Ive said I cant determine whether the underwriter 
should have made such  a contribution  in this case.
What this means is that the policy Mr C took out was not unusual. The terms were similar to 
other such policies  and there is no convincing evidence that any misunderstanding  he had 
about the level of cover provided was due to anything done  wrong  by Swinton. I have no 
reason to consider that Mr C would not have bought this policy, if he had known that a 
replacement boiler  would  not be covered. He wanted cover for the cost of repairs if his boiler 
went wrong and has not suggested he would not have gone ahead  if he had known it would 
not pay for a replacement.  And, even if Swinton did cause him to think  a replacement boiler 
would be covered, he would not have been able to get a policy that would have covered the 
cost a new boiler and so his position would not be any different than it is  he would still 
have had to pay for a replacement boiler  himself.  
I do not therefore consider it has been  established that Swinton mis-sold this policy. 
With regard to the making of the claim, I note that Mr C visited two branches and found them 
to be closed down.  I can understand the frustration  this may have caused but I have no 
power to penalise Swinton for deciding  to close branches.  And there is no other convincing  
evidence of attempts  to contact Swinton, such as by phone  or email before Mr C replaced 
the boiler.
Ref: DRN08257873On 26 April 2018, Mr C was told Swinton would send a claim form out to him, he called back 
on 30 April and was then correctly put through to the underwriter. I am not persuaded that 
the incorrect information given on 26 April caused his claim not to be paid. I agree with 
Swinton that this did not have any significant detrimental effect on Mr Cs position.  He had 
already replaced  his boiler and it was for the underwriter to determine if any part of this cost 
was covered by the policy or not. 
I dont consider it has been  established  that if Mr C had been able to contact the 
underwriters on 26 April instead  of 30 April 2018,  that the claim would have been covered. 
However, I agree with the investigator that Swinton could have been more helpful  and 
should have provided correct information on that first call. This did cause additional 
unnecessary inconvenience to Mr C, especially given his state of health  (details  of which  he 
has provided to us). I therefore agree that the total sum of £100  compensation is not 
unreasonable. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Swinton Group  Ltd in part and require it to pay Mr C £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of this matter (this 
is to include the £50 already offered). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0825787