K821x#15Complaint
Mr D and Mrs G complain that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let them reject a faulty  
car.
Background
In May 2016  Mr D and Mrs G acquired second  hand  car costing £8,999  funded by a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn and a deposit of £529.  It was some two years 
old and had done 40,041  miles.
In early 2019 the engine suffered a major failure  when the car had done some  69,000  miles.  
The car was inspected by three garages. The initial report  recorded there was a noise 
coming from the inside  of the engine block and advised Mr D to take the vehicle to a Ford 
garage to have the issue fully diagnosed.  It suggested that it seemed likely the failure  was 
due to the known issue with some  Ford Eco boost engines.
They were  advised  that the car shouldnt  be driven  further. A third report  was obtained  on 5 
March 2019. This states there were signs of a coolant leakfrom  above the alternator area.
Mr D and Mrs G submitted these reports along with other evidence to Moneybarn, but it 
rejected their request to reject the car. It didnt believe that they had demonstrated there was 
fault with the car at the time of acquisition.
They brought their complaint to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. He noted the evidence provided by Mr D and 
Mrs G which  he found persuasive. He added that the facts  were in line with other Ecoboost  
issues seen by this service where it appears  the original degas pipe fitted to some  vehicles 
was faulty and led to engine failures due to a loss of coolant. 
He noted the report  stated: I can however confirm that the degas pipe has either  been  
replaced on recall or fitted at the time of vehicle assembly. He noted  that Mr D and Mrs G 
had confirmed they hadnt ever taken the vehicle to Ford for a recall on the degas  pipe. He 
said this suggested  either the pipe was the original or had been fitted prior to their 
acquisition of the car.
He thought therefore that the degas pipe was most likely faulty  at the point of sale. He said 
that a Ford garage conducted an inspection and deemed the engine  needed  to be replaced.  
He noted that the car wasnt new and had done  some 69,000  miles;  but said Ford had 
accepted there are major  issues  with some vehicles running their Ecoboost  engine. As such  
he didnt think the age or usage of the car was relevant.
He noted Mr D and Mrs G had voluntarily terminated the agreement as they were unable  to 
afford to pay for a car that wasnt usable. Our investigator thought Moneybarn should  have  
either allowed them to reject the car or paid for it to be repaired. Mr D and Mrs G had asked 
that they be paid for the cost of loans taken out to pay for two replacement  cars, but the 
investigator didnt  agree.  However, he thought they should be allowed to reject the car. 
Moneybarn didnt agree  and said the investigators view was unsubstantiated opinion based  
on inconclusive evidence.  It didnt  think the complaint should be decided  on similarities to 
other complaints.
Ref: DRN01686602My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have some sympathy with the view expressed  by Moneybarn that as the car had been with 
Mr D and Mrs G for 29 months then the fault wasnt likely to have been resent at the point of 
sale. However, I have reached  a different  conclusion. I will explain why.
The car suffered  a major  engine failure  after only five years and having done  less than 
70,000 miles. The evidence indicates that it was properly maintained by Mr D and Mrs G. I 
regard such an event  as exceptional and one must  consider why it might  have happened at 
that point.
The car has been inspected by three separate garages including a main  dealer and coolant 
loss has been  identified as an issue. This is symptomatic of the inherent problem with some  
of this particular  type of engine. I consider that on the balance  of probabilities that this car is 
one of those with the engine prone to fail. 
I dont see that one would expect an engine  to fail such that it needed  to be replaced  due to 
wear and tear. As I have  said am satisfied the car was well maintained  and that being so it is 
reasonable to assume that the engine would have  carried on for many more  years and for 
many more miles. Cars  of this generation are expected to last for longer than this one did 
and I cannot safely  conclude there  is any basis to believe that it simply wore out and failed. 
It is more likely that there was an underlying problem and as the symptoms  suggest it lay 
with the particular engine in this car. I suspect  it was doomed to fail. 
Ref: DRN01686603Moneybarn has suggested  that it is the manufacturers responsibility  to deal with any failure  
and recall, but I dont  consider that removes the consumers right to seek redress from 
Moneybarn. As such I believe I should  uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited to:
Rework the account as though  Mr D and Mrs G had been  able to reject the vehicle in 
January 2019
End the finance  agreement with no further  liability to them  (as of January 2019)  
clearing any arrears  that accrued after this.
Refund the vehicle deposit (if any), plus 8% simple interest  from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
Refund the monthly payments for the time they were unable to use the car (January 
2019 to April 2019 when the agreement was voluntarily terminated) plus 8% simple  
interest on the refund amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse  information from their credit files.
Refund  the consequential  losses of £86.40  for Initial diagnostics and £420 for further 
diagnostics (£420.00)
Remove/refund the £455.00  default  charge it added
Pay £300.00 for the distress and inconvenience that this has caused
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0168660