K820x#14complaint
Mr M brings  a complaint on behalf  of his mother, Mrs M, about  the delays and poor 
workmanship from CIS General Insurance Limited  for a claim made following an escape  of 
water. He complains he hasnt been  reimbursed for his time in getting  this matter resolved.
background
Mrs M has her home insurance through CIS. Mr Ms interest is noted on the policy as having  
power of attorney for Mrs M. He isnt a joint policy holder. 
In April 2018 Mrs M suffered an escape of water  from her shower. It damaged  the shower, 
bathroom and carpet  in the hall. A claim was lodged and CIS instructed  surveyors to assess 
the damage. CIS was made aware Mrs M would require alternative  accommodation  and that 
she had care visits four times a day. It agreed to cover alternative  accommodation  costs  and 
Mr M arranged this for her. 
Work to repair the damage  started  in May 2018. By this time Mr M was unhappy  with the 
delays in getting the work completed. And he wasnt happy with the quality of the work being 
carried out. When work was finished  Mrs M returned  home and was upset to find the 
property had been left very untidy and work hadnt been completed to a satisfactory 
standard. Mr M also needed to carry out some  repairs.   Unhappy  with how the claim had 
been handled, the delays  experienced  and the quality of repair,  Mr M complained to CIS. 
CIS didnt  think there had been any avoidable delays.  But it acknowledged no-one  from the 
claims team had been touch about the alternative accommodation costs. It also 
acknowledged Mr M had had to liaise with suppliers  and contractors  himself  and that the 
claim hadnt been managed as proactively as it should have been. And so it offered Mrs M 
£350 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Mr M referred the matter  to this office.  He said the alternative accommodation  payment had 
been made, and hed been reimbursed for his time and expense  in carrying  out a number of 
small repairs. But he hadnt been reimbursed for his time spent in overseeing the claim. Our 
investigator looked into this but explained he wasnt a policyholder and we dont award costs 
for third parties or attorneys acting for others. She explained this information could be found 
on our website. And while we were  investigating  the claim, Mr M was told there  was still 
£100 excess to be paid. Our investigator explained  this was the first part of any claim that 
needed to be paid by the policy  holder.  
Mr M wanted an ombudsman to review the matter as he didnt realise he wasnt  a joint policy  
holder, and CIS paying him previously for time spent  led him to believe it would for the 
overall time spent managing the claim.  He also believes the excess should have been netted 
off any money CIS needed to pay and is unhappy that he hasnt been asked for the 
previously and should be written off as suggested  by its final letter. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN02727932Mrs Ms claim under the insurance policy and Mr Ms complaint about  the handling of that 
claim are two different  things. A final response  is a response setting out the outcome  of a 
complaint investigation, and is not necessarily indicative of a claim being finalised.  And the 
letters Ive seen dont  suggest CIS is willing to forgo excess or that it agreed to it being 
netted off any amounts  it was going to pay. What the investigator explained is right; excess 
is the first part of any claim the policy holder  needs  to meet  themselves.  So whilst I 
understand the argument Mr M makes, Mrs M still needs to make that payment. And I note 
that in its letter of June 2018 CIS did explain this was payable so Mr M was made aware of 
this quite some time ago. 
Mr M is attorney for his mother and isnt a joint policy holder, although I fully accept he 
believed he was at the time of asking us to look into this complaint. This means he isnt a 
customer of CIS himself. When looking at making financial awards either  for financial loss or 
distress and/or inconvenience  I can make awards  for complainants.  Although Mr M is 
bringing this complaint, the actual complainant is Mrs M as she is the customer  of CIS. Ive 
seen no evidence Mr M has invoiced Mrs M for his time in dealing  with this matter, so its 
not a loss she, as the complainant, has suffered. And although I accept he has spent time 
overseeing the claim, I make no award as he isnt the complainant. That CIS decided  to 
reimburse Mr M previously has no bearing  on that. 
Having considered the matter carefully,  Im not asking CIS to reimburse Mr M for his lost 
time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0272793