K821x#15complaint
Mr P acquired two new vehicles in March 2017, by means of two-year hire agreements  with 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited (trading as Renault  Finance).  He complains that, when he 
attempted to return these  vehicles at the end of their hire period, Renault Finance  initially 
refused to collect them  which led to him incurring costs associated with retaining these 
vehicles, until they are collected. 
Mr P wants:
His costs associated  with retaining  these vehicles to be reimbursed
Any charges  relating  to the refused collection, which may have been applied to his 
agreement account, to be waived
Compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has experienced
background
Mr P sadly  died while we have been  investigating his complaint.  His estate  is represented by 
Mr W. 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 November 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained that I agreed  with our investigators  view 
that the complaint should be upheld. But I disagreed with our investigators settlement 
recommendations.
My provisional settlement  recommendations included  reimbursement by Renault Finance of 
certain expenses incurred by Mr P, during  the period March to October 2019. Renault 
Finance replied to my provisional  decision,  seeking details of the off-site storage  charges 
within these expenses. These details were provided, and no further  response  has been 
received from Renault Finance.
Mr W responded to my provisional  decision, questioning why Renault  Finance was not being 
asked to reimburse actual  expenses incurred  after October 2019.    
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P referred his complaint to us, he told us that Renault  Finance should pay his 
normal storage charges  of £25 per vehicle  per night, because  he had been forced to retain 
the vehicles for months. Renault Finance told us that it was unwilling to pay Mr Ps normal  
storage charges, which it regarded as arbitrary.
Our investigator recommended (in October 2019) that the complaint  should be upheld,  and 
that Renault Finance should:  
Pay Mr P £150 for distress and inconvenience  caused
Waive any charges relating to the refused collection,  which may have been applied  to 
Mr Ps account 
Rearrange collection as soon  as possible
Ref: DRN01751112Renault Finance  agreed with our investigators  recommendations. But Mr P disagreed,  
because the recommended  settlement did not include payment of his normal storage  
charges. And he did not to allow collection of the vehicles, until he received payment of his 
normal storage charges.
My view, expressed in my provisional decision, is that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Renault Finance  to reimburse expenses actually  incurred  by Mr P:
From  the date in March 2019  on which collection of the vehicles was aborted
To the date in October  2019 when our investigator  
oconfirmed to Mr P that Renault Finance would collect the vehicles without 
MOTs, and
oset out how she felt Mr Ps complaint should  be resolved      
This is because I think it was fair and reasonable for Mr P to maintain his position,  until our 
investigator made her recommendations. He had every right to disagree with these 
recommendations, but it was not fair or reasonable for him subsequently to continue to 
prevent collection  of the vehicles.
Mr W has not advanced an argument why it would be fair and reasonable for Renault 
Finance to reimburse actual expenses incurred after October 2019. So, I have no reason to 
change my provisional settlement recommendations.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order RCI Financial Services Limited (trading  as Renault Finance):
1.To reimburse expenses totalling  £3,074, incurred by Mr P during the period March  to 
October 2019
2.To pay directly to Mr P £150  for distress and inconvenience caused
3.To waive any charges  relating to the aborted collection in March  2019, which may 
have been applied to Mr Ps agreement account  
4.To rearrange collection of the vehicles as soon  as possible
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01751113COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
20 April 2021
complaint
Mr P acquired  two new vehicles in March  2017,  by means of two-year hire agreements with RCI 
Financial Services  Limited (trading as Renault Finance). He complains that, when he attempted  to 
return these vehicles at the end of their hire period, Renault Finance  initially refused to collect them  
which led to him incurring costs associated with retaining these vehicles, until they are collected. 
Mr P wants:
His costs associated with retaining these vehicles to be reimbursed
Any charges relating  to the refused collection, which may have been applied to his agreement  
account, to be waived
Compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced
background
Mr P sadly died while we have been investigating  his complaint. His estate has been represented by 
Mr W. 
In March 2019, Renault  Finances agent began the process of collecting the vehicles, which had 
passed MOT  tests a year earlier. The agent aborted this process,  because  it believed that the 
vehicles needed  to pass new MOT tests, before they could be driven away.  And Renault Finance 
charged an abort fee to Mr Ps account.
Mr P said the earlier tests  were not compulsory,  and testing would only become compulsory when  the 
vehicles became  three years old. He complained to Renault Finance, saying  that its agent  should  not 
have aborted  collection, the abort fee should be waived,  and the vehicles  should be collected as soon 
as possible.   
Renault Finance initially resisted this complaint, which Mr P then referred  to us in May 2019. 
Mr P told us that, because he had been forced to retain the vehicles  for months, he considered  that 
Renault Finance should pay his normal storage charges of £25 per vehicle per night.
Renault Finance told us:
It would  accept return of the vehicles, without further MOT tests, and that it had waived the 
abort fee
Mr P would not allow collection of the vehicles, until he received payment of his storage 
charges
it was unwilling to pay Mr Ps normal storage charges, which it regarded as arbitrary
On this basis, our investigator recommended (in October  2019) that the complaint should  be upheld.  
To resolve it, she recommended that Renault Finance  should:
Pay Mr P £150 for distress  and inconvenience  caused
Waive any charges  relating to the refused collection, which may have been applied to Mr Ps 
account 
Rearrange collection as soon as possible
Renault Finance agreed with our investigators  recommendations. But Mr P disagreed, because the 
recommended settlement did not include payment of his normal storage charges. He told us that 
these charges totalled about  £11,000  at end-September 2019. And he continued  not to allow 
collection of the vehicles, until he received payment  of his normal  storage charges.
Ref: DRN01751114So, Mr Ps complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
There was confusion  about whether a one-year  old vehicle, which Mr P said had been the subject of a 
non-compulsory MOT test, required  an annual MOT test when it was two years  old (given  that most 
classes of vehicle do not require MOT  tests until three years). There was also confusion about which  
MOT class the vehicles hired by Mr P fell into. 
Mr P was firm in his view that his hired  vehicles  did not require second MOT tests, and he declined to 
pay for or to arrange  these tests. He was also firm in his view that Renault  Finance should pay his 
storage charges.
Renault Finance has told us that it no longer wanted the vehicles to be MOT  tested, and that it would 
arrange collection by transporter of the vehicles. And I share  Renault Finances (and our 
investigators) view that it should not be required  to pay storage charges. 
But I think it would be fair and reasonable  for Renault Finance to reimburse  expenses  actually 
incurred by Mr P:
From the date in March  2019 on which  collection of the vehicles was aborted
To the date in October 2019 when  our investigator  
oconfirmed to Mr P that Renault Finance would  collect the vehicles without  MOTs, and
oset out how she felt Mr Ps complaint should be resolved      
This is because I think it was fair and reasonable  for Mr P to maintain his position, until our 
investigator made her recommendations. He had every  right to disagree  with these  recommendations,  
but it was not fair or reasonable for him subsequently to continue to prevent collection of the vehicles.
I agree with our investigators recommendations  (which have been accepted by Renault  Finance), 
subject to the inclusion of an additional payment reflecting the expenses actually incurred by Mr P, 
during the period March to October 2019. 
Mr W has provided evidence to us of expenses incurred during this period. These expenses relate  to 
(pro rata annual) vehicle insurance premiums, and to payments Mr P made  for storage of the vehicles  
elsewhere (not at his own premises). 
They are as follows:
Insurance of two vehicles: £975 x 2 x 7/12 = £1,137.50 
Insurance Premium  Tax (12%) = £136.50
Off own premises storage (12 weeks, March to June 2019)  = £720
Off own premises storage (13 weeks, June  to September 2019)  = £780
Off own premises storage (5 weeks, September and October 2019) = £300
TOTAL = £3,074
So, my provisional  settlement recommendations are that Renault Finance should:
Reimburse expenses totalling  £3,074, incurred  by Mr P during the period  March to October 
2019
Pay Mr P £150 for distress  and inconvenience  caused
Waive any charges  relating to the aborted collection, which may have been applied to Mr Ps 
account 
Rearrange collection of the vehicles  as soon as possible
Ref: DRN01751115my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
W or RCI Financial  Services Limited (trading  as Renault Finance) by 20 May 2021, my provisional  
decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
My provisional  settlement  recommendations are that Renault Finance should:
Reimburse expenses totalling  £3,074, incurred  by Mr P during the period  March to October 
2019
Pay directly to Mr P £150 for distress and inconvenience caused
Waive any charges  relating to the aborted collection  in March 2019,  which may have been 
applied to Mr Ps agreement  account 
Rearrange collection of the vehicles  as soon as possible
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0175111