K820x#14complaint
Mrs R and Mr M say that they were  mis-sold  a regular  premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
background
Mrs R and Mr M jointly took out a mortgage  with BOS in 2001. At the same time they took 
out a regular premium  MPPI policy with the benefit  split 50/50 between them. The policy  
wouldve covered  repayments on their mortgage  if they couldnt  work due to accident or 
sickness or if they lost their jobs for up to 24 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  it wouldve been  
clear from the paperwork BOS used at the time that they had a choice in taking the policy 
and thought it wouldve provided a suitable  benefit.
Mrs R and Mr M disagree. They say they have  no recollection of signing up for PPI and 
made a collective decision not to take it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs R and Mr Ms complaint.
BOS had to make it clear  to Mrs R and Mr M that they had a choice in taking  out the policy.  
Mrs R and Mr M say this wasnt done  but havent  provided much detail about what was said 
to make them think this. Given the length  of time since the sale I wouldnt expect Mrs R and 
Mr M to have  a detailed recollection  of what was discussed. So Ive relied more on what  the 
documents from the time show.
Separate application forms were completed for Mrs R and Mr Ms MPPI and mortgage and 
BOS have given  us a copy  of both. 
I can see on the mortgage application  form with revised property details (the previous form 
having - as I understand it a wrong  address) that under the section that deals  with MPPI that 
BOS recommends that you consider our Mortgage Payments Insurance  Scheme.  And I 
can see right below this Mrs R and Mr M have both signed under the words  Yes, I would 
like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments  Insurance.  They  have then gone on to sign 
and date the mortgage application form again at the end. If they didnt  want MPPI they 
couldve left this section  blank. 
Following the completion of the mortgage application form Mrs R and Mr M then went on to 
complete a separate application  form for MPPI. I acknowledge the property address is 
different to that listed on the mortgage application but given it was signed and dated the 
same day I think  it is likely this was an administrative  error and nothing else.  So I think  BOS 
did make  it clear that Mrs R and Mr M had a choice in taking out the policy  because  they 
were given a choice on the mortgage application form and I think they signed the completed 
MPPI application form because they wanted  the cover. 
Ref: DRN00941562This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so that Mrs R and Mr M could make an 
informed choice about buying  MPPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mrs R and Mr Ms needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for them for the following reasons:
They were  both eligible  for cover  and it doesnt look like they would have been caught  
by any of the main  exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve 
made it difficult  to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mrs R and Mr M say they were entitled  to some sick pay and their 
parents wouldve  been able to help make their repayments  if they couldnt work.  But 
there is no guarantee their parents could help and a successful claim  on the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and for potentially longer covering Mrs R and 
Mr Ms mortgage  payments for up to 24 months  if they were unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness or if they lost their jobs. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mrs R and Mr M in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments, I think they wouldve been interested in protecting  them. 
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to them  at the time.  And if 
they decided they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel it. 
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mrs R and Mr M information  in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I can see the costs were clear from the quote but I dont know  if BOS gave all the information 
as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what 
Mrs R and Mr M have  told us about their circumstances  at the time, I think they wouldve still 
taken out the MPPI policy if theyd been given all the proper information at the time of sale.
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mrs R and Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs R and Mr Ms complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0094156