K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc refused his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act, 1974  about goods and services he purchased on his credit  card.  He 
says they were misrepresented and not fully provided. He wants  a full refund.
background
Mr E tells us he bought  an information  package from a company Ill refer to as N. He paid 
£600 for the service using his Tesco credit  card. He says N told him the package  would 
include exclusive access to executor/director job opportunities; access  to exclusive training 
material and to an on demand learning  resource.  He says the package was misrepresented 
as many of the jobs advertised were also available through  other channels. And he wasnt 
able to access most of the training material. Mr E also says he was overcharged - as hed 
agreed to pay £499 ex VAT but was charged £500  ex VAT. Mr E says hes since found he 
would have to pay an extra  £250 to access the on demand material.  As N refused his 
application for a refund  he says he turned to Tesco  to try to get his money back.
Tesco told us it had considered Mr Es claim under  both chargeback provisions and section 
75. But it didnt  think either applied. It said the terms and conditions allowed N to vary the 
price. And as N had said it was working on the difficulties of accessing  material  it did not 
consider thered been a breach of contract.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 April 2019. I indicated it was my 
intention to uphold  the complaint - but only in part. I said I thought there was evidence  of a 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation and that Tesco  should  pay £250 to Mr E to 
cover the cost of accessing the on demand  material.
As neither party has provided further  evidence  following my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change  the view I expressed. Its largely repeated  in my final decision which is set 
out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr E has been  disappointed  about receiving significantly less from the package of 
services he purchased than he expected. I can see from the correspondence  that he was 
enthusiastic at the prospects of what he thought was being offered.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in line with our fair and 
reasonable remit. And where evidence is incomplete or unclear - as some  of it is here - Im 
required to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I also need to explain our approach to complaints which concern chargeback and section 75 
claims. I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes section 75.
Ref: DRN00546472In brief,  section 75 permits a consumer purchasing goods and/or services with certain  types 
of credit to make  a like claim  against the supplier of finance as they could against the 
supplier of the goods and/or services.  But its subject to certain conditions  and those include 
the requirement for there  to have been  a misrepresentation and/or a breach of contract  by 
the supplier. This can relate to the finance  agreement as well as the goods and/or services 
offered. And there must also be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship which requires  a pre-
existing arrangement between the creditor and the supplier of the goods and/or services.
Its also important to note that Im not deciding on the merits of the underlying  claim which 
Mr E might have against N. Mr Es complaint is about the way Tesco  has dealt  with his claim 
against N and so my decision  is about  whether Tesco has dealt fairly with this.
Ill deal briefly with the chargeback issue.  Chargeback  is a service offered by certain card 
providers. Its not a statutory scheme  and the rules are set out by the card provider. Tesco 
explained that it didnt think it could raise  a chargeback as the merchants terms and 
conditions covered the relevant parts of Mr Es complaint. It said these  confirmed materials 
wouldnt necessarily be available at the start of the course - and could be supplied later. And 
that the prices  charged could vary from the prices  quoted. It also felt there  was no proof the 
merchant had claimed the jobs offered would  be exclusively available on the platform.
Whilst I agree theres no persuasive evidence there was an offer of exclusivity of job 
advertisements Im not satisfied the two previous reasons are sustainable. Theres  ample  
evidence an on demand service was offered.  And to suggest  an on demand  service can 
be provided at a time of the suppliers  choosing and not that of the consumer is a 
contradiction in terms. 
And regardless of whether the cost price  of a service might vary there is no authority to 
deduct more than a consumer has authorised at the time of the transaction. So Im inclined 
to think Tesco should have processed the chargeback claim. But for reasons Ill explain I 
dont think its decision not to affects  my final decision  or resulted in any direct loss to Mr E.
Tesco stated it did not think Mr E had provided any information that N had breached  and/or 
misrepresented the terms and conditions. And so it declined to accept his section 75 claim.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer to act upon it. 
And a breach of contract would probably  occur  if a party failed  to deliver the full range of 
goods and/or services  it promised.
I think on a balance of probabilities that Mr E has provided such evidence. Its not in dispute 
that he was unable to access part of the service that was sold.  There  are emails  of Mr E 
complaining about this to N. And N responding in terms  that it was trying to put matters  right.  
Tesco has acknowledged as much  in its final response letter which  refers  to the business 
working to resolve this. As theres  no mention  in the responses  of N to the need for further 
payment it can be reasonably inferred that it accepted Mr E was entitled to access  the 
service based on what  hed already paid. And hes provided evidence hes been unable  to 
do so without paying an extra £250.
Mr E has also provided what he says - and I accept - are handwritten contemporaneous  
notes of details  of the conversation he had with Ns representative prior to the agreement.  
Taken together, I think  its probable there  was a misrepresentation that the on demand  
feature was included  in the price. And theres  probably been a breach of contract in the 
failure to provide that service  immediately upon  Mr E paying the charge.
Ref: DRN00546473Tesco suggested it couldnt see the debtor-creditor- supplier relationship had been  shown to 
exist. But its own case handlers notes confirmed it had established this. And Mr Es bank 
statement shows a direct payment to N from his credit card account. So I think its probable 
the required relationship was in place. Based on all the information it had I think  Tesco 
should have processed Mr Es claim and not simply rejected it.
Whilst Mr E says an unauthorised amount was taken, even he accepts  the difference  was 
only £1. And Ive not actually seen anything directly from N which  gives the price  as £499 
and not £500. Even  if this amounted to a breach, the redress  is limited to £1 and therefore 
has little or no effect on the overall  outcome.
Ive also considered Ns terms and conditions which include a provision which  states the 
supplier will not make refunds in any circumstances . Im aware Mr E says he wasnt 
provided with these terms before he made  the purchase. But Ive looked at them anyway as 
legislation presumes certain conditions will apply to consumer contracts even where no 
specific terms have been agreed at the time of the contract.
 I think its highly likely  such a condition would prove to be unenforceable. The Competition  
and Markets Authority  (CMA) issued  guidance  on the unfair  terms provisions in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. In summary,  this includes provisions which  are blacklisted - 
that is automatically unenforceable. Blacklisting prevents  terms being  used which  take away  
the protection the Act gives. And as the Act gives the consumer - in certain circumstances - 
the right to a refund or price reduction  its probable any condition that purports to remove this 
right under any circumstances would be blacklisted and unenforceable.
Where theres been a breach of contract and/or misrepresentation the remedy is to try to put 
the consumer  back to the position hed have been  in without the breach/misrepresentation. 
In this case this can be achieved by the payment of the fee of £250  + VAT to Mr E.
In summary,  I think there was sufficient evidence which should have led Tesco  to the view 
that there  had been a breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. And in those 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for it to pay the additional fee to allow  Mr E to access  
the relevant material.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  - but only in 
part. I now require Tesco Personal Finance Plc to take the following action:
Pay £250  + VAT (£300)  to Mr E to cover  the cost of the on demand service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00546474
Ref: DRN0054647