K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from National Westminster  Bank Plc (Nat 
West) in relation to his bank account.
background
Mr R says he was experiencing personal and financial difficulties, so he asked Nat West to 
freeze his account  and stop charging him interest and fees. But he says it ignored his 
request.
So, Mr R says he wants Nat West to freeze his account now and reimburse the interest and 
fees from when  he originally made his request.
In response to Mr Rs complaint, Nat West agreed to refund the interest and charges it had 
applied to his account in February 2018.
Our adjudicator thought this was reasonable, in the circumstances and that Mr Rs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He said Nat West had correctly applied interest and charges to Mr Rs 
account. And that the level of contact  between Mr R and Nat West demonstrated it acted 
positively and sympathetically in trying  to resolve his situation.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. He said hed had his phone  withdrawn 
around the time Nat West said it tried to call him in October 2017 and he didnt recall 
receiving any message. He said on 4 February 2018 he told Nat West the only method to 
contact him was by email,  but it continued  trying to contact him by other  methods.  And he 
said its unfair for him to be penalised  if Nat West cant follow his simple advice about  how to 
contact him. 
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see there was contact between Mr R and Nat West about his financial situation  on several 
occasions between  June and September 2017. And I see due to the nature of Mr Rs 
employment at the time, he made  it clear  he didnt want to enter into a formal arrangement 
or debt plan to resolve matters.
I also see Nat West says it tried to contact Mr R to discuss the options available  to him. But it 
has explained that as hed made clear he didnt want to enter  into a formal  plan and as his 
current account was being run within  its overdraft  limit, interest and charges continued  to be 
payable. 
Nat West has also told us interest and charges would only have stopped being payable  if the 
account had defaulted, which didnt happen until August 2018. But thats  in line with the 
relevant guidelines, which say that where an expected or agreed payment to an account isnt 
made for three to six months   then a bank is entitled to record a default. Thats  what 
Ref: DRN02783582happened here. I see that Nat West has also now agreed to reverse the interest and charges 
applied to the account in February 2018. I think thats a helpful gesture in the circumstances.
So, I think it was reasonable for Nat West to continue applying interest and charges in these 
circumstances. And the information Ive seen about the contact between Mr R and Nat West 
indicates it responded positively and sympathetically  in attempting  to find a resolution  to his 
situation. It may not have been  able to speak to Mr R, but Im satisfied that it acted  fairly  in 
trying to contact him using  the contact details  it had, about the situation here.
I acknowledge Mr R is unhappy  about  the methods Nat West used to contact him, in view of 
his personal situation.  But the information  Ive seen  indicates it wasnt made aware that he 
no longer had his phone until February  2018. I see it has explained that collections letters 
are automatically generated and sent by post,  rather  than by email. And I note it sent its final 
response to Mr Rs complaint to him by email in February 2018. So, I cant fairly and 
reasonably uphold this aspect of his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0278358