K820x#14complaint
Mr H says HFC Bank Limited (HFC) mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Sometime in 2013 or 2014, Mr H contacted HFC to complain that it had mis-sold him a PPI 
policy with a credit card.  HFC wrote to Mr H in January 2014 to say it didnt agree. It also 
explained that Mr H had made  a successful claim on the policy and received £2,720  in claim 
payments.
In June 2018, the business that had acquired  Mr Hs credit card account wrote to him. It paid 
him about £350. This was a refund of the commission  and profit share  hed paid that was 
above 50% of the premiums  and the extra interest  and fees hed paid as a result.  It also 
included simple interest (at 8% per year)  for any periods  when he was out of pocket.
Mr H didnt think this was enough and referred his complaint to our service.
Relying on the letter it sent Mr H in 2014,  HFC initially said Mr H had waited too long to refer 
his complaint to us. But it changed its mind when  it learned that Mr H is unwell.
An adjudicator subsequently upheld  Mr Hs complaint.  He said the PPI policy was mis-sold  
and recommended HFC try to put Mr H in the position hed have been in if he hadnt bought 
it. HFC agreed to do this.
However, when HFC worked out how much  Mr H had paid for PPI (including interest), it 
turns out hed paid less than he received when he made his claim.  So it said he wasnt  due 
any compensation.
A different adjudicator  explained why he thought this was fair  and sent Mr H evidence of 
the claim payments  hed received.
Mr H is unhappy that he wont receive any money. He says hes been  messed  around.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HFC accepts that the PPI policy was mis-sold,  I dont  need to decide  whether or not it 
was. All I need to decide is whether or not HFC needs to pay Mr H any money.
I dont think it does  and Ill explain why.
When I decide, or a business accepts, that a PPI policy  was mis-sold, Id expect it to put the 
consumer in the position hed have been  in if he hadnt bought the policy. To do this, the 
business needs to refund the amount  the consumer paid for PPI, including  any interest  and 
fees caused by PPI. And it should  add simple interest (at 8% per year)  for any periods  when  
the consumer  was out of pocket. But it can deduct  the value of any claim(s) made.  The rules 
say it can do this (DISP App 3.7.5)  and I think its fair for it to do this. I say this because the 
consumer wouldnt have  been able to make  the claim  if he hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN06260592Mr H says he doesnt remember  making a claim. But Ive seen evidence  that shows  he made  
a claim shortly after he took out the credit card. Weve shared this with Mr H. He received 
8 claim payments of £340. So he received £2,720  in total.
As Mr H paid less for PPI than he received, I dont think HFC needs  to pay him anything.
I can appreciate why Mr H is disappointed.  But I dont think hes been messed around.
Mr H only asked us to get involved in 2018. When it wrote to him in 2014, HFC told him hed 
made a successful claim on the policy and told him how much hed received  and it told him 
he could refer his complaint  to our service if he was unhappy. And it agreed that we could 
look into his complaint in 2018 when it didnt have to. It doesnt look like HFC was 
responsible for any delays  after the complaint was referred to our service  or that it did 
anything to mislead Mr H about  the likelihood that hed receive any additional compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, HFC Bank Limited doesnt have to pay Mr H any 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0626059