K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on this complaint  on 25 January 2019.  A copy of 
my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
I explained why I was planning  to uphold the complaint and asked both parties  for their 
comments. Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr J didnt have anything to add.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclays accepted  my provisional decision,  theres no reason for me to depart from my 
provisional findings. My final decision is therefore the same as my (attached)  provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Barclays  Bank UK PLC must  put things right by taking the steps  set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01234252COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about  a credit card PPI policy Mr J took out in 1999. It was added  to his account  
some months  after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator rejected  the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Js case. 
Im currently  planning to uphold Mr Js complaint  because Barclays recommended  a policy 
I dont think was right for him. Ill explain  why.
Barclays isnt able to provide a PPI policy document from the time of sale.  But it has provided policy 
documents from before  and after the sale. And these say that Mr J wouldnt  have been able to make a 
claim for unemployment  unless hed been in continuous work for at least 12 months. I understand a 
gap between  jobs of no more than two weeks would be acceptable.
Mr Js application form states that hed been  with his then employer for three months. This form pre-
dates the sale of PPI by about two months. So Mr J had been with that employer  for five months when 
the policy  was sold.
Since our adjudicator sent their view, Mr J has provided  information about his employment history. 
And Im satisfied from this that its likely there was a two month gap between his previous job and the 
job stated on his application form. This means Mr J had only been  in continuous employment for 
about five months when  the policy was sold  and wouldnt therefore  be covered  for unemployment 
for about another seven months. So if Mr J was in need of unemployment cover, I dont think this this 
policy met his needs.
I dont think Mr J wouldve bought the policy  if Barclays had made clear  it wasnt right for him. So, I 
think Mr J has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. 
putting things  right
Barclays should put Mr J in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much  Mr J would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  premiums. It 
should also remove  any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund  the difference between what Mr J owes and what  he would  have owed.
Ref: DRN01234253If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes him.
B. If  when Barclays works out what Mr J would  have owed each  month without PPI  Mr J paid 
more than enough to clear  his balance,  Barclays  should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr J 
paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr J wouldve  owed Barclays 
something on his credit  card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Mr J what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I understand Mr J may have already received  a partial  refund of his premiums, so Barclays will need 
to take this into account when working out the above.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im planning to uphold  Mr Js complaint and to tell Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to put things right by taking the steps set out above.
Ref: DRN0123425