K820x#14complaint
The executor for the late Mr and Mrs D complains about the way Aviva  Insurance  Limited 
(Aviva) had dealt with a claim  Mr and Mrs D had made on their home insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim for the water damage  caused a water  leak in their home. They  
were helped with this by their son  who Ill refer to as Mr B for clarity.
Mr and Mrs D made  several complaints to Aviva, and brought  some of them  to this service. 
We issued final decisions on those complaints, and cant re-visit them.
Our previously issued decisions covered what had happened up to mid September 2018.  
Mr and Mrs D then complained about delays since September 2018, and said that they had 
discovered that Aviva had included in the cost of their claim things it shouldnt have included 
 such as the cost of putting right poorly completed repairs and some compensation theyd 
been paid. They said this increased cost,  which is recorded on an industry database  shared  
by other  insurers, was making  it harder for them  to buy insurance from another provider as 
the premiums went up. They also said theyd been forced into taking the cash  settlement, 
when in fact theyd wanted Aviva  to do the repairs in their entirety.
Aviva said it had wanted to complete the repairs for Mr and Mrs D but couldnt, which is why 
it said it would cash settle some remaining work. It provided a breakdown  of the overall  costs  
of the claim, but said data protection regulations prevented it from providing a more detailed 
breakdown. It said that it didnt think including things like compensation in the overall cost 
would affect the price  Mr and Mrs D could  get for insurance going forwards   but that it was 
happy to explain  this to potential new insurers if Mr and Mrs D wanted this.
Mr and Mrs D died some time after they brought their complaint to this service,  and Mr B has 
continued the complaint on behalf  of their estate.
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  had done  much  wrong when it made the cash settlement, 
given the wider circumstances. And he thought Avivas offer to explain any figures on 
industry databases to other insurers was reasonable.  
Mr B doesnt  think thats fair, so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have already issued  a final decision on a complaint which  included  delays up to mid 
September 2018, and this decision only looks at what happened after that. There  are two 
main parts to this complaint.
the cash settlement
Aviva issued payment  for the cash settlement  after both parties agreed this was the best 
way forward. The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ds policy allowed Aviva to do that, if it 
Ref: DRN00083142so wished. Wed  normally only expect an insurer to make a cash settlement after repairs  had 
been started if the relationship had broken  down  or there were other good reasons.
Mr B says his parents were forced to accept the cash settlement. I havent seen any 
evidence to support  that. Aviva told us it did want to carry out the repairs  for Mr and Mrs D, 
as it recognised they were vulnerable. But it also says that, as theyd complained (mainly via 
Mr B) about the quality and extent of the repairs, and that complaint  had been  upheld, it 
wasnt able to get its contractor to continue.  And it didnt have any others in the area. So 
instead it said it would make a cash settlement for any outstanding work if invoices were 
provided. Mr and Mrs D accepted that. I think thats a reasonable way to bring the claim to a 
close, as it allowed Mr and Mrs D to choose  who did the remaining  work and when.  
Mr B tells us his parents struggled to find a new contractor to complete works because  of the 
proximity to Christmas. But the notes on Avivas files suggest  that there was only minor work 
outstanding by the end of September. And, as has been explained in previous decisions, 
once an insurer has paid a cash settlement,  its involvement in arranging repairs  is 
considered closed. I havent seen any evidence that Aviva caused any delays after mid 
September. 
central records
Nearly all insurers share information about  claims  on a central database  and other insurers  
will look at those records when theyre  deciding whether to offer insurance to a customer. 
Mr B says his parents found it difficult to find insurance from another  provider because they 
thought the value of the claim  was inflated in two ways  that Aviva  had included  the cost of 
putting right the mistakes  made by its contractor, and it had also included the compensation 
it had paid.
Aviva explained  it was in the process  of trying to re-claim  some  costs from the contractor. It 
said it didnt know if it would be successful,  or when. It said until it knew  the outcome of that, 
and therefore  a final figure, it was willing to explain what  was happening to a new insurer, if 
Mr and Mrs D wanted it to do that. That seems fair to me.
Aviva also explained  that compensation is recorded  differently on the database, so new 
insurers would know it wasnt part of the claim itself. It said it was more  likely the fact that 
there was a claim at all that was affecting  new insurers, rather  than the value. I think  thats 
probably correct, but in any event, the value  of a claim  is only one factor  insurers take into 
account when  deciding whether to offer cover, or at what price.
Overall I dont think Aviva has done much  wrong here, and Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executor for 
the late Mr D and the late Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Ref: DRN00083143Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0008314