K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that a car she got through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) isnt fit for purpose. And that SMF wouldnt let her exercise  her 
right to reject the car which is what she would like to do.
background
Miss G says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with SMF  in December 2017. This 
was for a seven year old car with a mileage of 99.859  miles.  The agreement  was for 47 
months.
Miss G said before she took out the agreement she noticed a couple of issues with the car. 
One of the passenger door handles was faulty  and a fuel warning light was on. Miss G says 
she took out the agreement on the understanding that these  issues  would be fixed.
Miss G says unfortunately  when she collected the car the faults presented themselves again. 
She says she wasnt sure if the faults had been dealt with and texted the dealership  about  
this on 29 December 2017. Miss G says on the same day she contacted the dealership  to 
say she wanted  to reject the car making  reference  to her 14 day cooling off period in the 
contract.
She says the dealership told her that the 14 day cooling  off period didnt allow her to reject  
the car. On this basis Miss G allowed further repairs to be carried  out on the car but 
identified further  problems. On 29 March 2019,  the earliest time Miss G could get her car 
looked at, the suspension  and high beam switch were identified  as needing immediate 
attention. These items were classed  as wear and tear but were repaired as a gesture of 
goodwill
SMF said when Miss G contacted the business  on 4 April 2018 it reviewed a health check 
that had been carried out on the car on 29 March 2018. This identified  the wear and tear  
issues with the suspension and the high beam switch.  SMF  confirmed these had been  
repaired as a gesture  of goodwill. It asked Miss G to provide a diagnostic report  but she 
didnt do so.
It said that the dealership confirmed that Miss G asked to hand  the car back within  14 days 
of having it but it explained she couldnt do so.  
SMF said it looked at the MOT on 30 April 2018  which only showed two advisories both of 
which fell under wear  and tear items (corrosion  to the brake  pad pipe junction  and to the 
underbody and suspension).
It concluded there was no evidence of a point of sale issue for which  it was responsible  and 
which would be grounds to allow Miss G to reject the car.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Gs complaint. He found that Miss G had evidenced she had 
asked to reject the car within the first thirty days  of having it. And should have been allowed 
to do so. He recommended that SMF:-
-End Miss Gs agreement with nothing  father  to pay
Ref: DRN00614002-Refund Miss Gs deposit  with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
-Pay Miss G £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused 
-Arrange collection  of Miss Gs car at no cost to herself
-Ensure no adverse information is recorded on Miss Gs credit  file in relation  to this 
agreement.
Miss G accepted this view but SMF didnt.
SMF said that there was no evidence that Miss G asked to reject the car within 14 days. And 
it said the 14 day cooling off period  was Miss Gs right to withdraw  from the agreement. She 
was still liable for the advance and interest payments. It said there  was no evidence  Miss G 
exercised her right of short term rejection within  30 days  of having the car.
It said there was no evidence what was agreed  to be fixed or rectified at the point of sale. 
And when  Miss G raised  issues with SMF in April 2108 she didnt specify what the issues 
were. Also that when  Miss G raised issues with the dealership on 29 December 2017 the 
dealership was unable to contact Miss G until February 2018. So SMF queried  if the car was 
of unsatisfactory  quality  why Miss G didnt respond to the dealerships attempts to contact 
her.
It added that the vehicle  heath check carried out on 29 March 2018 made no reference to 
the warning light illuminating  or the passenger door handle suggesting these items had been 
rectified. It felt the issue with the suspension was likely to be down to general use of the car 
since Miss G had had the car for three  months  and driven 3,848 miles.  It also noted issues  
raised in the health check had been repaired as a gesture of goodwill.
Finally it made reference to the MOT on the car on 30 April 2018 which  made no reference 
to an issue with the door handle. SMF felt this evidenced that this repair had been  carried  
out successfully.
It felt that the adjudicator s view was based solely on one text message  from Miss G in 
December 2017  querying if repairs had been carried out or not.
Our adjudicator considered SMFs  comments but didnt change  his view.  He felt there was 
evidence Miss G told the dealership within 30 days she wished to reject  the car. And the 
dealership had advised SMF of this contact
He said SMF had provided no documentation  around the repairs  and faults. Miss G had 
provided text messages  to substantiate her complaint. 
He confirmed his view was based  on issues and what happened prior to the MOT in April 
2018 with the key point  being that Miss G wasnt treated fairly when she asked to reject the 
car within 30 days.
SMF didnt respond to this second view after a number of attempts to elicit a response, in 
fairness to Miss G, our adjudicator put her complaint forward  for an Ombudsmans final 
decision.
Ref: DRN00614003my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G took out her agreement on 19 December 2017. She says as part of the agreement  
the dealership  was going to mend a faulty door handle and resolve a problem with  a fuel 
warning light.
Neither party has been able to give me any evidence to confirm  what  was agreed to be done 
to the car as part of the agreement .or if it was done.  However Miss G has given  us a copy of 
a text message  she sent on 20 December 2017 asking if the car had been fixed  yet as it was 
getting late.  So its clear  there was an issue that the dealership were dealing  with the day 
after Miss G took out her agreement.
Miss G has given  us a copy of another text message dated 29 December 2018  saying the 
warning light is still coming on which was supposed  to have been resolved. And there  was 
still a problem with the door handle.
From this I am persuaded that the work on 20 December 2017 related to the warning light 
and the door handle.  And that this problem wasnt resolved.
Ive seen emails from the dealership to SMF.  These  confirm that on 29 December 2017 Miss 
G complained to the dealership and wanted  to hand the car back  as she was within  in her 14 
day right to do so. The dealership said it explained  to Miss G that the 14 day cooling off 
period didnt mean she could just hand  the car back.  And that it explained the process to her.
I think there was some  confusion here between the 14 day cooling off period in the contract. 
SMF has rightly  explained that if a consumer exercises this right they are still liable for any 
advance paid and the interest  due on the contract.  So I dont think on that basis  the 
dealership were wrong to advise Miss G that she couldnt just hand her car back  on that 
basis.
But Miss G also had a 30 day right to reject  the car. I think  she understood she could  reject  
the car but didnt ask to do this in the right way. I think  the dealership should have explained 
this right to her. Had it done  so I think  Miss G would have exercised this right-  she had some 
work done to the car  she says as part of the agreement to have it  the day after she took 
out the agreement. But its clear from her text that this work either wasnt  done or wasnt  
done satisfactorily. And the issues must have been present at the point of sale since  the 
work was done  the day after Miss G got the car. I think  a faulty door handle  represents a 
safety issue that would make  the car of unsatisfactory quality.
I accept SMFs point there was a delay then in Miss G taking her complaint forward. I 
understand from Miss G she had further repair work carried out but I have  no evidence of 
this. She did have health check completed  on 29 March 2018 which identified immediate 
work that needed  doing to the high beam switch and suspension. I understand the 
dealership did this work as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss G then complained on 4 April 2018  to SMF. I think Miss G probably didnt pursue 
rejection or her complaint  earlier  since  she understood  from the dealership she couldnt hand  
the car back.
Ref: DRN00614004But I do think that Miss G did have the right to reject  the car in December  2017.  And that she 
should have been allowed to do so at that point.
I dont feel Miss G was treated fairly  when  she put in her complaint. In April 2018  SMF  asked 
Miss G for a diagnostic report. It  said it couldnt  just rely on the information on the health 
check she provided. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for SMF  to want to have more  information. But Miss G 
raised the issues on the health check within six months of the having  the car. So the onus 
was on SMF to show if any faults were  present or developing at the point of sale not Miss G. 
I dont think it should have asked Miss G for a diagnostic it should have undertaken this 
itself.
I appreciate Miss G has had use of the car so I agree with our adjudicators  view that SMF 
doesnt have to make any award in relation to this. But I do think its fair to allow Miss G to 
reject her car. And that she gets some compensation for the inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  SMF should:-
-End Miss Gs agreement with nothing  further  to pay
-Refund Miss Gs deposit  with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
-Pay Miss G £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused 
-Arrange collection  of Miss Gs car at no cost to herself
-Ensure no adverse information is recorded on Miss Gs credit  file in relation  to this 
agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0061400