K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs O say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  the PPI. The policy only covered 
Mr O.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that this policy was sold in 2009,  after a mortgage had been taken out in 2004.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen copies  of some of the paperwork completed at the time of sale.
In particular, Ive seen a separate PPI application  form thats been signed  by                  
Mr and Mrs O to consent to taking PPI.
I think Mr and Mrs O would reasonably have been  aware that PPI was optional  
because:
oThey took this PPI policy out a number of years  after their mortgage was 
taken out
oMr and Mrs O chose not to receive a recommendation on other  insurances  
that were available, including life and critical illness cover.
oIt seems  that Mr O chose to receive  a recommendation for PPI and Mrs O 
didnt  again suggesting that it was presented as optional
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs O aware 
that PPI was optional  before they agreed  to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr O, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs O have said about  being told that due to their 
circumstances, including  that they had a young  family,  that they needed PPI.  
Whilst I dont know  exactly what was discussed during the sale,  I do think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy was right for Mr O based on 
what hes told us about his circumstances, including that he was only entitled to 
statutory sick pay if he was unwell  and unable to work.
This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months  per claim for a successful 
accident or sickness claim.
Ref: DRN03360382Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything else Mr and Mrs O have said - including  what  theyve said 
about being told that they had to wait three  months  before making  a claim and being told that 
PPI wouldnt pay in addition to their existing means.
I can confirm that the waiting  period before claim could be made  for this policy  was 60 days, 
not 90 days and that this policy would  have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Os existing 
means. My decision doesnt deal with any claims related complaint points or any potential  
claim on the policy, but Mr and Mrs O has the option of speaking  to Lloyds about anything  
else theyre unhappy with. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Lloyds doesnt  need to refund everything  
Mr and Mrs O paid for it. But Lloyds has already offered to give Mr and Mrs O back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Lloyds will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs O now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0336038