K821x#15complaint
Miss R says Cash  On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss R had one instalment loan with Peachy in January  2019.  She borrowed £400,  which  
was repayable in six monthly instalments averaging  about £123.
The first adjudicator to consider Miss Rs complaint  did not think it should be upheld. Miss R 
disagreed and her complaint was considered by a new adjudicator who asked Peachy to 
provide some new information about  its credit checks. Upon  receipt of this information, the 
second adjudicator thought the complaint  should  be upheld.
Peachy didnt agree with the second  adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
In Miss Rs case, Im not going  to comment on whether or not Peachy carried out 
proportionate checks before lending. Thats because I think  the key thing here is the 
information Peachy  actually obtained suggested the loan wasnt  affordable for Miss R.
Miss R declared monthly income of £1,251 when she applied for her loan. She also declared 
monthly expenditure of £899,  which included £250  for monthly  credit  commitments and £150 
for short-term loan commitments. For what was Miss Rs first, relatively small loan, Id say 
Peachy would usually be entitled  to rely on the information Miss R provided  unless it had 
other information which substantially undermined  Miss Rs declarations.
I think the results of the credit check Peachy carried out did just that. The credit history  
information provided by Peachy suggests Miss R had opened a large number of accounts in 
a short  space of time,  with 29 active  accounts at the point she applied  for her Peachy  loan. 
I wont reiterate all of the details of the credit search  here as Peachy will already be familiar 
with them.  In summary, the credit check showed  Miss R had over £16,000 of existing debt, 
of which  £5,100 was revolving credit  and £5,300 loan balances. 
Monthly repayments due on active accounts are also shown and whilst Peachy disputes our 
adjudicators interpretation  of the figures  for example that £996 represents the total value  
of monthly payments due  it has offered no alternative explanation and Im not persuaded 
that there  is anything significantly wrong  with the figures presented by our adjudicator.  Ive 
Ref: DRN05035052seen Miss Rs bank statements and the total sum of the payments to her creditors in 
December and January 2019 isnt actually far off the £996 figure Ive mentioned.
So I think Peachy  ought  to have realised that Miss R wasnt  in a position  to take on 
additional credit  commitments.  The information  it had strongly suggested Miss R would 
struggle to make the repayments in a sustainable  manner. Im therefore upholding Miss Rs 
complaint.
putting things right
Peachy must refund the interest and charges Miss R paid on her loan. It should add 8% 
simple interest per year to the refund, from when Miss R paid the interest and charges until 
the date of settlement. Peachy must also remove any adverse information it has recorded  
about the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest.  Peachy must  give Miss R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Rs complaint. CASH  ON GO LIMITED must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0503505