K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  his home emergency insurance
policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in October 2019, part of which is set out below: 
On 14 February 2018, Mr A notified  RSA that his boiler was not working and he had no
heating or hot water.  RSA appointed  a contractor  to attend. RSA says the contractor advised
RSA that the boiler was likely to be beyond economic  repair, due to its age and general
condition. However,  it did try to repair it and apparently replaced a pump. Having replaced
the pump, RSA says it identified some additional  faults. In total, I understand  there were
three attendances and on the third visit, it said the boiler was beyond economic repair. The
policy provides a contribution of £500 towards a new boiler in such circumstances.
Mr A was not happy with this and considered that the boiler could and should  have been
repaired. He also says he and his young  children were left with no heating or hot water  for
12 days in very cold weather due to RSAs failure  to repair  the boiler properly.
RSA said that it was entitled  to rely on the expert  opinion of the contractors but would
consider any further evidence  Mr A was able to provide. RSA said it would pay the £500
contribution but would not insure  the boiler in the future, if Mr A chose not to have it
replaced.
RSA did accept that it should have  made  it clearer to Mr A from the outset that it was unlikely
it would  be able to repair the boiler.  This wouldve allowed him to make  an informed choice
about his options. However,  it said it tried to repair the boiler in an attempt to assist but
ultimately was unable to do so. It says it would not have  been reasonable to have
condemned the boiler at the initial visit but offered £100 compensation for the time Mr A and
his family  were without  heating and hot water.
Mr A doesnt  accept that this is enough to compensate him and his family for the
inconvenience caused. He says he called  at least 100 times  over the period asking for help.
Mr A has also said he has had the boiler  repaired  privately  at a cost of £300-350. His
engineer replaced  the pump  (which  he bought  for £100) and serviced the heat exchanger.
He therefore disputes that the boiler was beyond economic repair  because  it has continued
to work since. Mr A has also made a number of other submissions, which Ive summarised
below:
Its not true that the first contractor thought the boiler was beyond economic repair.
The first contractor said he would  like to change the pump and see if that would be
the reason why the water was not heating equally and that someone  would turn up
the next day or so. The second  contractor  who came to replace  the pump the next
day brought the wrong pump but only found  this out after having  ripped off part of the
existing pump and trying to fit the new one. He could not get the pump  to start
because in this type of boiler the pump  only starts once a certain temperature  is
reached within the tank. (Mr A found this out having  read the manual later with his
own engineer.)
The second contractor  then tried to fit an old, second-hand  pump. He tried to fit part
of this pump onto the existing one, which caused  the pump to leak all over his floors.
When Mr A intervened, the contractor who was swearing and angry, changed the
Ref: DRN04860942body of the pump too. However, the leak continued and Mr A had to collect the water
in a plate emptying it frequently.
Mr A was left with a leaking  boiler. The second contractor told him that the heat
exchanger needed replacing  and that he would  come back to do that. However, Mr A
didnt hear from him again, so he had to call RSA several times.
It transpires the second contractor tried to defraud RSA by charging it for a new heat
exchanger that RSA thought was replaced but wasnt.
RSAs third contractor then came out and confirmed that the second contractor was a
gym instructor with minimal experience;  that he should not have touched the pump
and in any case, should have removed the whole  pump and replaced it with a new
one. The third contractor  also said that if he had been sent out first, and the second
contractor had not touched the boiler,  he would have been able to fix it easily.
He has a video  of the third contractor telling him how incompetent the second
contractor was and the mistakes  hed made  with his boiler.
He called RSA at least 100 times and every time it kept blaming the customer
relations team.
He reported  all this to RSA but it was not prepared to listen as the calls went  to their
call centres where they could not care less.
He wants us to listen  to all these calls, which will demonstrate that RSA made false
promises to get it sorted until it decided  to wash its hands of him after keeping  him
and his family in the dark all that time.
He told RSA he would get his own engineer, as long as it paid for the repairs but it
refused and said it would invalidate his cover if he did so. If it had let him do this
sooner, it would have  meant he and his family did not have to suffer without  heating
and hot water for so long.
RSA can inspect  the boiler and the work done  (new pump,  clean heat exchanger and
replacing the damaged valves that were  caused  by its contractors).  The boilers been
working well ever since and is far from the end of its life.
Had it not been for the second  contractor, his boiler would have  been  repaired
sooner and he and his family would not have had to suffer without heating  and hot
water for so long, in a period of extremely cold weather.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  that it be upheld, as
she considered  that RSAs offer was reasonable in the circumstances. The investigator
thought that RSA made reasonable efforts to try and repair the boiler, rather  than to write it
off immediately. The investigator also thought there  was not enough evidence that its
attempts to repair the boiler  had caused  further damage. Mr A has not been able to provide
a report or evidence of the work  done by his own contractor. RSA had said it would
reconsider if any such evidence was provided.
Mr A does not accept  the investigators  assessment, so the matter  has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy  provides cover for repairs of the central heating  boiler,  subject to various  terms
and conditions, including that:
the most we will pay for any one emergency  is:
Ref: DRN04860943 £1,000  inclusive of parts, materials, alternative  accommodation, VAT and the tradesmans
attendance and callout charge
If as a result of a claim  the tradesman  decides your boiler is beyond economic  repair,  we
will pay up to £500 towards the cost of your new boiler. 
Beyond economic  repair
the point at which the tradesman estimates that the cost to repair your boiler exceeds its
value.
RSA says that it exhausted the claim limit before it concluded the boiler was beyond
economic repair  but also gave  Mr A the £500  benefit towards a new boiler. If a boiler is
deemed to be beyond economic repair, this does not necessarily mean that the boiler is not
repairable but rather the cost of doing  so would  exceed its value.
Even if I accepted that it should  take this as the cost of a replacement boiler, rather than the
value of the existing boiler  (i.e. as a second-hand boiler), theres no convincing  evidence that
the decision to deem  it as being beyond economic repair was incorrect. As stated,  it had
already spent considerable amount on repairs and more repairs were required.
Mr A says that some of the repairs were  only required because the second contractor
caused further damage. However, there  is no convincing, independent  evidence  to support
this.
There is no report from Mr As contractor.  While  I have no reason to doubt Mr As word  about
what he was told and the work he had done,  I am unable to effectively disregard what RSAs
engineers have said without convincing evidence from another qualified  gas engineer.
I have watched  the videos  that Mr A has provided. One taken by Mr A shows  water  dripping
from the connections of the replacement pump and show this being collected below. There is
no dispute that the second contractor didnt repair the boiler  but this doesnt  establish, on its
own, that he caused further damage or that this was avoidable.
The second  video is of the third contractor. The video is just under two minutes long and it
does not appear  to me that the contractor  knew  he was being filmed  and recorded. Mr A can
be heard  saying that this contractor should  have come out the first time round and the
contractor responds  in a jovial  way  if hed come  out first itd all be sorted by now all
singing and all dancing. There is then some discussion about the previous contractor: Mr A
says he told him he was the best the company  could  send him; the third contractor laughs
and says that he is the only one directly employed by the company, the others are self-
employed.
The video is a little jumpy but I could not hear any clear statement that the boiler
was only beyond repair because of something the previous contractors had done  wrong.
And, as stated, it does  appear that the contractor did not know  he was being filmed  and so
(even if any such clear statement were made, which I dont accept)  I cant accept that he
knew or intended his comments  to be used as evidence that the previous contractor caused
further issues with the boiler, or that if he had not done what he did the boiler  would not have
been deemed irreparable.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, I do not consider that RSA has acted
unreasonably. It tried to repair Mr As boiler but was unable to do so. More issues were
found and having already reached  the policy limit, more repairs  were required. I have not
Ref: DRN04860944listened to the calls between Mr A and RSA as there is no dispute that it said it would repair
the boiler. This is not disputed  and so I do not need  to investigate that further.
I can appreciate how distressing and inconvenient  it would have been to have no heating or
hot water  for around 12 days,  especially  with two children in the house.  I understand RSA
provided heaters  but even so, it would  have caused  inconvenience and the weather was
extremely cold at the time. However, RSA was trying to repair the boiler  and I have not seen
any evidence that there  were significant avoidable or unnecessary delays.  Although I can
see that Mr A did have to chase up what was going  to happen next on occasion, which
would have been frustrating.
In the absence of any other expert  evidence,  I therefore consider  that it was reasonable and
in line with the policy terms to determine that the boiler was beyond economic repair.  It made
the £500 contribution, knowing that Mr A said he had in fact had the boiler repaired for less. I
consider that the balance of that therefore  is effectively compensation for Mr A having to call
and chase RSA and for it not making  clearer, sooner  that it might not be able to repair  the
boiler. Overall I consider  this reasonable. 
my provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr As response to my provisional  decision
Mr A does not accept  my provisional  decision.  He has made  a number  of submissions in 
response, which Ive summarised below: 
his boiler was not broken or leaking but it was not heating  water well or 
continuously. All that would have been  required to fix this would have been to clean 
or change the heat exchanger; it would  have been a simple  repair.  
It was the second engineer and not the third engineer that said the boiler was beyond  
repair. The third engineer only came out to repair the leak the second  engineer  had 
caused by his incompetence. 
The first engineer didnt know what the cause of the fault was but wanted  to try 
changing the pump and then if that didnt work  he intended to clean or change the 
heat exchanger. 
It was the incompetent second engineer that didnt fit the correct pump and did not fit 
it correctly. It is this engineer that then caused further problems which  led to his boiler  
being considered beyond  repair.
The second engineer had removed  the original pump, destroying it in the process. He 
then realised the new one that had been ordered wasnt the right one. So he then got 
an old, second-hand  pump from his van. He has provided the photo of the box the 
pump was in to demonstrate that this engineer did not fit a new pump. 
He fitted it badly leaving the boiler  leaking and told Mr A he would come back  the 
next day to fit a new pump.
Ive said that RSA spent considerable amount on repairs  and that more repairs were  
necessary but where is the evidence  for this? It fitted a second-hand  pump  and the 
only work actually required was the cleaning  or repair of the heat exchanger.
Ref: DRN04860945I said there is no convincing, independent evidence to support the fact that the 
second contractor  caused the further damage. However, there is evidence, as Mr A 
says he called RSA to report the leak that the second contractor caused. RSA 
apologised and sent out the third engineer to stop the leak as a matter of urgency.
A recording of this call and any call the third engineer made to RSA will prove  this as 
he is sure he would have made  RSA know how dangerous the second engineer was 
for RSA and customers in general.  
All that has to be proved it that there  was no leak before the second engineer worked 
on his boiler. He reported this and thats why the third engineer  was sent out  to cap 
this leak. 
He provided evidence of what the third engineer said in the video -is the third 
engineers word not good enough?
I should also ask RSA if it used the second  engineer again, after Mr A reported him.
The boiler still works properly and it was never  beyond economic repair,  as it would 
cost £2-3,000 to replace it.
He had asked  RSA to tell him what parts had been ordered for his boiler and it told 
him that a new heat exchanger had been  ordered  and charged to them, by the 
second engineer.  He told RSA that the heat exchanger had not been replaced and it 
should not therefore pay him for this. He saved RSA hundreds of pounds  and this 
proves the second engineer was fraudulent.  
RSAs response to my provisional  decision
RSA has confirmed it has nothing further  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says his boiler wasnt broken but he did say that he had no heating or hot water since 
the date he called RSA out. Mr A is also adamant that his boiler could have been repaired 
easily but for what the second engineer did but there is no expert evidence to support  this. 
He says that his calls to RSA will confirm that there  was a new leak after the second  
engineer left. I do not doubt that but it doesnt prove  that the leak was caused  solely by 
something that engineer did wrong. And Ive already set out in my provisional decision  why I 
do not consider  the video evidence of the third contractor establishes this either.
I did see the photograph of the box from which Mr A says the second engineer produced the 
correct pump for his boiler.  The box is battered and looks old but this does not prove that he 
damaged the parts  of the boiler  and fitted  this incorrectly, as Mr A has stated. 
Ive considered everything Mr A has said about  the second engineer and the work he had 
done. I also note that he says it was the second  engineer that deemed the boiler as beyond 
economic repair, rather  than the third as I stated. I am sorry if I misunderstood this but I dont 
think it makes  a difference to the outcome.  Ive also considered what work Mr A says his 
engineer did and which he says fixed his boiler and has resulted  in it continuing to work well 
for some time. While  I have no reason  to doubt what he says, there is no convincing 
evidence that supports  what  Mr A says. 
In the face of evidence from RSAs engineers that they made reasonable attempts to repair 
the boiler but were unable to do so, I am not persuaded that Mr A has established that RSA 
Ref: DRN04860946caused additional damage  to his boiler,  that the repairs  it attempted were not reasonable, or 
that it was not reasonable for it to deem his boiler as beyond economic repair. 
Mr A says it would have cost £2-3,000 to replace his boiler.  However, the policy  defines  
beyond economic  repair  as being  when  the repair costs exceed its value. This means the 
value of the existing boiler  and not the cost of replacing it. 
In addition, as mentioned  in my provisional decision,  RSA says it had reached the policy 
claim limit (£1,000) which I have no reason to doubt,  and further  work was still required. I 
note what Mr A says about the second engineer trying to charge RSA for a new heat 
exchanger. RSA accepts  that the heat exchanger  was not replaced and it will be a matter for 
it to check what it pays  its sub-contractors  for work done on its behalf.  As far as I can see, 
the cost of the heat exchanger was not included  in the total repair costs set against  the 
policy limit. There  was therefore no more cover  for any other repairs. However,  RSA also 
paid the £500 replacement boiler contribution. 
Overall therefore, I still consider that RSA has not acted unreasonably. It tried to repair        
Mr As boiler but was unable to do so and, having  already reached the policy limit, more 
repairs were required.  Mr A and his family  had no heating or hot water for around 12 days, 
however, RSA was trying  to repair the boiler  and I have not seen any evidence  that there  
were significant avoidable  or unnecessary delays. Although I can see that Mr A did have to 
chase up what was happening on occasion.  
RSA made  the £500 contribution, knowing that Mr A said he had in fact had the boiler  
repaired for less. I consider that the balance of that therefore is compensation for Mr A 
having to call and chase RSA and for it not making  clearer, sooner that it might not be able 
to repair  the boiler.  Overall I still consider  this reasonable and I am not persuaded that RSA 
needs to do any more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019. .
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0486094