K821x#15complaint
Miss E and Mr D are unhappy with the way their home insurance claim for water damage 
was dealt with by China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd, and with the settlement offered.
background
In November 2017 Miss E reported a claim to China Taiping  following  her bath leaking, 
causing water damage to the bathroom floor and to the kitchen below. China Taiping 
appointed loss adjusters who carried out a site visit and asked Miss E and Mr D to obtain 
two quotes for the repair work.  The loss adjuster  advised China  Taiping  to put a reserve  on 
the claim of £6,500 (less £250 policy excess). Miss E and Mr D consulted a loss assessor/ 
contractor who quoted for the work at £6,033. The loss adjuster reported back  and queried 
the costs, saying some of the work was overpriced.  They made an offer of 4,746.74 in 
early February 2018. 
Miss E and Mr D didnt feel they could accept this but asked  if China Taiping would make  an 
interim payment of the undisputed amount. It didnt do so. They also pointed  out that they 
had been without normal cooking facilities and had to rely on takeaways so questioned 
whether they should be receiving a disturbance allowance. They  took out a further mortgage 
advance of £19,000 to consolidate  some borrowing and to pay for the repairs.  Those repairs 
were completed in early  August 2018.  
After Miss E and Mr D referred the complaint to this service, China Taiping offered  a 
settlement on 1 August 2018.  It proposed  to pay the costs based on Miss E and Mr Ds 
quote, except  for the bath panel, claimed at £405  for which  it was prepared to pay £120. 
That offer was not accepted as they didnt want to complicate the complaint and the repairs 
had already been carried out.
Miss E enquired about the disturbance allowance and appears to have received a reply  (not 
documented anywhere) that as China Taiping had increased the payment as a goodwill 
gesture it wouldnt pay any more. I understand that in September 2019 China Taiping paid 
Miss E and Mr D an interim payment, I assume of the sum it had offered.
On referral to this service  our investigator  ultimately concluded that as a disturbance 
allowance is discretionary and as there  was no indication that the house was uninhabitable, 
China Taiping didnt need to pay it. She did think however that China  Taiping  should have 
appointed an independent  loss adjuster  to consider  Miss E and Mr Ds quote and that it 
delayed in paying the interim payment. She also took into account  that Miss E and Mr Ds loss 
assessor had delayed the matter. She proposed that China Taiping pay £250 compensation
Miss E and Mr D didnt accept this and pointed out that they had had to borrow  on credit  
cards to pay for take away meals. They feel they wouldn't have needed to take out the 
further mortgage but for this claim.
China Taiping objected to the compensation figure. Since the claim was handled by a loss 
adjuster it didnt see the need for an independent one.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the compensation figure  proposed 
was reasonable.  But I thought Chain Taiping should add interest  to the amount  paid by it.
Ref: DRN01169842Miss E and Mr D accepted the decision, though  pointed out that they didnt get paid by China 
Taiping until 11 October 2019, so want the interest  payment  to run until then.
China Taiping hasnt responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional findings were as follows: 
claim payment
Although it disputed Miss E and Mr D's quote, China Taiping did agree  to full payment of it, 
less £285 in respect of the bath panel. On a fair and reasonable basis  £405  does  appear  to be 
a lot for a bath panel. The £120 offered  by China Taiping appears reasonable to me. Unless  
Miss E and Mr D are able to produce  evidence  that the bath panel they replaced was valued at 
£405 Im inclined to accept that China Taiping was entitled to make a deduction for this.
I think that Miss E and Mr Ds quote was reasonable. I say this for the following reasons:
Although the policy entitles China Taiping to only pay what it would've cost it to 
replace/repair items, Ive seen no indication that it was prepared  to appoint contractors 
to carry out those repairs. It asked Miss E and Mr D to obtain quotes.
China  Taipings  loss adjuster commented in relation  to the quote  that [the loss 
assessors] are not doing anything technically wrong,  they are simply a large  firm with 
larger POA than a small  non VAT registered company. Their  price reflects  this.
The said loss adjuster assessed the cost as being around £6,500.
Although Miss E understood that China Taiping increased its offer as a goodwill 
gesture, there is nothing in the correspondence to show  that that was the case.
So I think that China Taipings eventual offer to settle this claim based on Miss Es quote 
was fair and reasonable, in respect  of the repairs.
disturbance allowance
Miss E and Mr D feel they are entitled  to a disturbance allowance as they didnt claim for 
alternative accommodation and didnt have  normal cooking facilities.
Its true that there is no provision for disturbance allowance in the policy.  It wouldnt be usual 
for there to be one. But the policyholders  are entitled under the policy  to the Cost of 
reasonable alternative accommodation.; when your home is uninhabitable following loss or 
damage which is covered  under this policy.
So if the home was uninhabitable and, for whatever reason, the consumers werent put into 
alternative accommodation, then we say it would be fair and reasonable for the insurer  to pay 
a disturbance allowance. This would be to cover  any extra cost of providing  meals or using 
other facilities. Uninhabitable generally  means without cooking and/or washing facilities.
Ref: DRN01169843In this case Miss E says that they were without normal cooking facilities, having to eat 
takeaway meals mostly.  I cant  tell from the photos  but if she had an oven or microwave 
oven then although inconvenient,  the home would not be uninhabitable. There  doesnt seem 
to have been a discussion about alternative  accommodation or a disturbance  allowance in 
this case, even though  the loss assessors  were appointed quite early on. Given what  Ive 
seen, Im inclined  to think the home wasnt uninhabitable which means that I dont think  that 
a disturbance allowance should  be paid. I understand that Miss E and Mr D paid for 
takeaways during  this time but that unfortunately is part of the inconvenience generally  
associated with such a claim  but not covered under  the policy.
Miss E and Mr D are invited to let me have evidence that they were  without any cooking 
facilities until the home was repaired in response  to this provisional decision  and I may 
reconsider my view in respect of this.
Also during  the actual repairs I would presume that the kitchen was out of use for a while. it 
would be reasonable to pay a disturbance allowance for that period. Again Miss E and Mr D 
are invited to let me have any evidence of this.
borrowing money/interim  payment
I note that China Taiping failed to pay an interim payment in this case until September 2019.  
I think where there is a clear undisputed  sum payable then it would be reasonable to pay that 
as an interim payment. In the case of a cash settlement (which this claim was always going 
to be) payment of an interim payment would prevent any dispute  over payment of interest. 
Here Miss E made a specific request for an interim  payment on13 March  2018. That request 
appears to have been ignored by China  Taiping,  until made again by our investigator in 
September 2019.
Miss E and Mr D had to borrow  money to pay for the repairs.  I note that they borrowed a 
much larger amount (another £13,000 odd) to consolidate debts. But I think it is too far 
removed from the claim to suggest that the extra for that purpose was to pay off debts 
associated with the claim. 
As China Taiping should in my view have  paid an interim payment of the amount originally 
offered by it, it should pay interest at an annual  rate of 8% on £4,840.85 from 13 March 2018 
and at the same rate on the balance of the sum (£907.82) from 1 August 2018 until the full 
payment in September 2019. I dont know the exact date so would appreciate it if I could be 
advised of this.
compensation
I don't criticise China Taiping for not using an independent loss adjuster. Here  both parties  had 
experts advising them about the repair costs.  But I do think that China Taiping ignored  Miss E 
and Mr Ds complaints, raised  in February  2018,  their requests for an interim payment and for 
a disturbance allowance. I think this caused  added stress and anxiety to Miss E and Mr D to 
the extent that they felt they had to borrow the money to carry out the repairs.
I further take note of the fact that China Taiping having assessed the claim as being worth  
around £6,500  continued  to argue the point  while accepting  that the loss assessors hadnt 
done anything  wrong in setting out its quote.
Ref: DRN01169844I take into account that there was a gap of three months from April to July 2018 when it appears  
that China  Taiping was attempting to get hold of Miss E and Mr D's loss assessor. Nevertheless 
if they hadnt borrowed the money  Miss E and Mr D would have had considerably  more  
inconvenience. I think the £250 proposed by our investigator is reasonable.
As the payment wasnt made until 11 October 2019, that is the date up to which China 
Taiping should  be paying  interest. 
Otherwise I remain satisfied by my provisional  findings which  are now final and form part of 
this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to 
pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on £4,840,85 from 13 March 2018  and 
£907.82 from 1 August  2018 until (in both cases) the date of the full interim  payment.
pay £250 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2019. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0116984