K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs W took out in 1999. It was 
sold to her in-store.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs W aware  the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before adding it 
to her card. Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ws store card application where  she has signed  in the 
box to confirm she wanted to take out PPI. This is separate to agreeing to the card itself.  
With this in mind I think Mrs W wouldve realised  the PPI was optional.  On balance I think  
FICL made it clear  that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mrs W was self-employed  when  she took the policy.  But the policy does  cover  people 
who are self-employed,  and I dont think the terms would have made it overly difficult  for 
Mrs W to claim. I also dont think Mrs W would have  been caught by any significant 
limitations or exclusions of the policy and she seems to have had a need for the cover. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs W has also said that she could have relied  on her husband to help make  her 
repayments at the time she took the policy. But while Mrs Ws husband would have wanted 
to help, his ability to would have been  dependent on his circumstances at the time, which 
could have changed.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said including that the rules say we should 
presume Mrs W wouldnt have taken PPI if she was given more information.  But I still think 
she wouldve bought  the policy if she had been given clearer information. So these 
comments dont change  my conclusion. 
Ref: DRN00626172Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0062617