K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
declining their claim for the cancellation  of a trip under  a travel insurance policy. They  want 
compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs P had a travel  insurance policy with Aviva. They  were due to go on a trip in 
August 2018 (booked in January 2018), but Mrs P became unwell due to a nerve root 
compression in July and the trip was cancelled. A claim for the cancellation costs  was made 
to Aviva,  but it was declined.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Aviva. It said that there  was a link between the nerve root 
compression in July 2018 and an episode of back  pain Mrs P suffered  in December 2016. 
The claim was declined  on the grounds that nerve root compression wasnt covered by the 
policy and was linked to Mrs Ps undeclared degenerative spinal disc disease.  Aviva said 
neuropathy (broadly defined  as damage to nerves)  without a known cause was an 
acceptable medical condition, but not relevant to Mrs Ps case  as the cause was known.
Mr and Mrs P accepted that in 2016  there was some  evidence of spinal degeneration  shown 
in a scan but this was viewed by medical  professionals as the normal  ageing pattern; this 
was why it hadnt been declared. They said that Mrs P fully recovered  from this episode.
Aviva said that disc degeneration was a specific condition and the reason for Mrs Ps claim. 
Aviva also said that Mrs P had received treatment for the back pain caused by her spinal 
condition in the previous twelve months before booking the trip, and was excluded  under the 
terms and conditions of the policy as it was undeclared.  It stated  that it was willing  to 
consider any further medical information  available.
Mr and Mrs P complained to us, adding that they felt Avivas handling of the claim had been 
poor. They said that Aviva was trying to exclude more  mature  consumers from cover for 
which theyd paid. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
said that Mr and Mrs P accepted that the nerve  root compression from 2018 was linked to 
her degenerative spinal  condition,  and there  was no medical evidence that the cancellation 
was due to Mrs P suffering from neuropathy (nerve root compression was the cause).  
The investigator said the policy was clear that not all medical conditions were covered and if 
something had been  treated in the 12 months prior to the booking of the trip, it wasnt  
covered unless declared and accepted (or listed  as accepted). Mrs P had been treated in 
relation to her degenerative spinal condition  within  this period (though  she then fully 
recovered) and nerve root compression  wasnt an accepted condition under the policy.  The 
investigator said that this meant it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim 
based on the evidence it had received.
Ref: DRN05008132Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They said that nerve  root compression was covered by the 
accepted condition of neuropathy and Aviva  shouldve been clearer  in explaining that 
conditions treated in the twelve months before booking a trip had to be declared. The 
investigator said that there was no medical evidence  provided that showed the term 
neuropathy covered nerve root compression,  while the evidence showed  the back pain in 
2016-2017 and the nerve root compression in 2018  all stemmed  from degenerative disc 
disease. She noted that while the symptoms mightve ceased,  the disease  was still present 
when the trip was booked.  Aviva  pointed out that the reason for the trip cancellation wasnt  
described by any doctor as being  caused  by neuropathy, but due to the nerve  room  
compression caused by degenerative disc disease.  The investigator agreed with Avivas 
view. 
Mr P sent copies of definitions of neuropathy from medical dictionaries, but didnt have any 
medical reports supporting his position.  A letter from Mrs Ps consultant confirmed the 
investigators analysis  that it was the nerve root compression that caused the neuropathy, 
not the other  way round. He also confirmed that neuropathy was a symptom. Aviva  and the 
investigator said that the letter didnt  change their positions and an ombudsman's  decision 
was sought by Mr and Mrs P.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Medical condition
The starting point  is the policy itself. It says that unless a medical condition is in the list of 
accepted conditions, or declared and accepted, it wont  be covered by the policy.  Mrs P 
didnt declare her degenerative spinal disc disease, and that isnt in the list of accepted 
medical conditions.  
Neuropathy is listed  as acceptable,  but only if it was the cause of the claim. As all the 
medical evidence  available  confirms (as does the medical  dictionary  definitions), except in 
cases where neuropathy has an unknown cause (which is when its treated as a condition), 
neuropathy is a symptom.  Im satisfied that the inclusion of neuropathy as an accepted 
condition only refers  to when theres  no known  cause.  Mrs P doesnt  meet  that test  the 
evidence from her treating  doctors  is that she suffered from a nerve root compression.  This 
can cause neuropathy/damage to the nerves.  But the evidence from the treating doctors is 
consistent that it was the nerve  root compression that led to the cancellation of the trip. It 
isnt unfair  or unreasonable for an insurer to rely on the evidence of the treating doctors.
Ref: DRN05008133Mr and Mrs P accept  that the nerve  root compression was related to her underlying condition 
of degenerative disc disease. The same condition appears to have caused the earlier  back  
pain in 2016, which was treated until April 2017.  While the back  pain didnt cause the nerve 
root compression (and the GP has confirmed this),  both stem from the undeclared 
degenerative spinal condition. As the consultant said in one of his letters, your condition  is 
one of degenerative change  that comes on over a prolonged period of time and that the leg 
pain about which you consulted me in July 2018 was due to nerve compression and that you 
had had an episode  a few years previously, but this appeared to have settled down 
completely.
Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to find that Mrs P suffered from nerve 
root compression caused by degenerative  disc disease, and this caused  the cancellation of 
the trip, not neuropathy. This conclusion  is based  on the medical  evidence  provided to Aviva.
Declaration and the term about treatment within 12 months of booking  a trip
Is it fair and reasonable for Aviva to expect Mrs P to have declared her condition? 
Mr and Mrs P say not as she had recovered  and its normal for those ageing to suffer  such  
conditions. But the medical evidence is that it isnt normal  to feel pain, and its the pain that 
led to the diagnosis. And Mrs P was aware  of the position from the scan  she had in 2016. 
She also didnt declare  the treatment she received for her condition within 12 months of 
booking the trip. While I accept Mrs P made  a good  recovery from the back  pain, all this 
means is that this symptom resolved,  not that the condition was dealt with. 
Consumers are aware that medical  issues, including treatment, are matters than insurers 
need to know  and the policy makes  that clear.  The policy sets out that if treatment  for a 
condition is received within 12 months of booking a trip, it isnt covered. The trip was booked  
in January 2018 and the evidence  of the GP was that treatment for back pain was received 
until April 2017.
I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to require the degenerative spinal condition  to be 
declared. I also think its fair and reasonable for it to rely on the term which says if treatment 
was received within 12 months of booking the trip, the condition is excluded. Aviva  set out 
the basis of the cover  within  the terms and conditions of the policy and these were accepted 
by Mr and Mrs P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0500813