K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Legal & General  Insurance Limited  (L&G)  has declined  their 
claim for damage to their property, which they believe was caused by a storm and should be 
covered under their home insurance  policy.
background
In early January  2018 Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their home insurance policy 
following a storm. This was for external damage  to their roof and internal damage to a boiler  
which appeared to have  stopped working due to water ingress  from the damaged roof. L&G 
declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim on the basis there  was no evidence of any storm damage. It 
said there was severe mortar deterioration  to the ridge tiles on the roof which had caused 
the end ridge  tile to be dislodged.  As the damage  was due a natural breakdown of materials,  
rather than a one of storm event, it said the external damage wasnt covered under Mr and 
Mrs Ms policy. L&G said the boiler  had been  damaged by rainwater ingress  over a period of 
time and, again,  wasnt covered under the policy.
 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy their claim had been  declined and complained  to L&G.  They 
also complained  about various aspects of the way the claim had been handled, including 
poor communication and delays. L&G maintained its position but offered £50 in recognition 
of the delays it had caused. 
Our investigator said there was no dispute thered been a storm. She agreed with L&G that it 
hadnt been the dominant cause of the damage  to the roof and instead  had highlighted an 
existing issue. She noted, however, that Mr and Mrs M had extended accidental damage 
cover, which  said that damage caused by storm was covered under the policy.  She said she 
couldnt see any sign of the boiler  being damaged as a result  of wear and tear and thought  
the storm had contributed  to the damage  to the boiler. She said L&G should therefore  
reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the cost of repairing the boiler. She also thought L&G should 
increase the award of £50 to £150  for the poor service it had provided in handling the claim.
Mr and Mrs M agreed with the investigators  view. L&G disagreed and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr and Mrs M think their property was damaged during a storm and, as their policy  covers  
storm damage, they think they should  be covered  for this type of claim. So Ive considered 
this, taking into account the policy terms and conditions.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  main questions:
1.Were there  storm conditions  on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2.Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes?
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
Ref: DRN08775092If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
There was a storm shortly before Mr and Mrs M discovered their boiler wasnt working. That 
has been accepted by all parties  and there is no need for me to comment  any further  on that 
issue. So I can answer yes to issue one. 
I can also answer yes to issue two. High winds are known to dislodge roof tiles so Im 
satisfied the damage  in this instance is consistent with damage  typically  caused  by a storm. 
Storm weather can also sometimes cause  damage to internal decorations and contents, for 
example where  rainwater  has got in to the property. So Im also satisfied that the damage to 
Mr and Mrs Ms boiler is consistent with damage  caused by a storm. 
I now need to consider  whether the storm was the main cause of the damage  in this 
instance. The surveyor appointed by L&G decided the external damage hadnt been caused  
by a storm because  there  was evidence of mortar deterioration to the ridge tiles, which had 
caused areas of cement to disintegrate. This had allowed fatigue cracks  to the bedding  
mortar and the ridge tiles to de-bond and dislodge.  
Ive reviewed the evidence from the surveyor, including a number of photographs he took of 
the roof, and Im persuaded by his findings. Hes given a reasonable explanation  of why the 
ridge tiles might have  dislodged and I think its more likely than not that the damage would 
have been caused over a period of time and not due to a one off storm event. Its possible 
the storm may have  highlighted the problem with Mr and Mrs Ms ridge  tiles, but Im not 
persuaded it was the main cause of the damage. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover Maintenance, wear and tear or damage that happens 
gradually over a period of time such as damp or rot. With all of this in mind, Im unable to 
answer yes to storm issue three and I think L&G have acted reasonably in declining  the 
claim for damage to the roof.
Mr and Mrs M have  also claimed for internal  damage to their property and I need to decide 
whether the storm  conditions were the main  cause of damage to their boiler. L&G say there 
was very little rainfall associated with the storm and believe the damage to the boiler 
occurred over a period  of time, not because of a one off storm event. Its highlighted some 
water marks  on the floor of the loft, which it believes indicates that water had been getting  in 
through the roof for some time. It noted  that boilers are made of aluminium, which explains 
why there  was no rust on the boiler. It also said that boilers are sealed units and there  is no 
evidence the water has got into the boiler.
Mr and Mrs M say that when they discovered the split in the roofing felt above the boiler,  
they went outside and noticed  a smashed ridge tile by their garage and believe this had 
come down during  the storm a couple  of days previously. They  hadnt noticed  the smashed  
tile any earlier than that and while I dont think the storm  was the main cause of the tile 
coming loose, I think its more likely than not it was dislodged during  that storm. 
  
Records show there was 10mm of rainfall in one of the days  leading up to the discovery  of 
the damaged  boiler. While that is not significant rainfall, it is potentially enough to cause 
damage to a boiler, particularly when combined  with strong winds  which could cause the rain 
to be driven in to the damaged roof.
Ref: DRN08775093I have seen no evidence  to suggest  the boiler was damaged by anything  other  than ingress 
of water.  Mr and Mrs Ms local plumber who first attended the property noticed water  on top 
of the boiler. The emergency plumber who later attended used a hair dryer to dry out the 
boiler. And L&Gs surveyor said the boiler  was damaged  by water,  although in his opinion 
this was caused by rainwater ingress over a period  of time.
I have also seen evidence  that Mr and Mrs M had their boiler  serviced in December 2017,  
about four weeks before  it stopped working.  If there  had been  any water damage  to the 
boiler at that stage  I think its very likely it would have been  identified by the plumber. Its 
possible that water could have started  coming  in through the roof after the boiler  was 
serviced but I think its more likely than not it came through after the ridge tile was dislodged  
during the storm  in early January 2018. 
In light of the above, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ms boiler  is covered under their home 
insurance policy and L&G should  therefore  reimburse them for the cost of replacing it, plus 
interest for the delay in doing so. 
L&G offered  Mr and Mrs M £50 in recognition of the delays it had caused.  Our investigator 
thought £150 would  be a more appropriate payment. There  were  some delays in reviewing 
the case when  Mr and Mrs M challenged the decision to decline the claim. There  was also 
some confusion about the actions of the initial  roofing contractors appointed by L&G and 
subsequently some concern about the repairs they made. I think  £150 more  accurately 
reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M experienced as a result  of the claims 
handling issues they experienced with L&G. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I require Legal & General 
Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the cost of replacing their boiler, plus 8% simple 
interest* from the date of the invoice until the date settlement is made;
Pay Mr and Mrs M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor claims 
handling.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
*Interest  if Legal & General Insurance Limited considers  that its required  by HM Revenue and Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs M, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
and Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0877509