K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc.
background 
In January 2019 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
Mr G experienced a smell of diesel  and smoke coming from the bonnet.  He took the car 
back to the supplying dealer but no fault was found.  Mr G obtained a diagnostic  in February 
2109. No fuel leaks were found  but the garage cleaned a substance  from the sub frame and 
under tray.
Mr G complained to Santander  in March 2109.  Santander arranged  for an independent 
inspection. The report concluded  that there was smoke coming from the bonnet  and a strong  
smell of diesel consistent with a fuel leak,  but that no leak had been found. The report said 
the fault wouldve been developing  at the point  of supply and said the car should  be 
returned.
Santander arranged  for the car to be stripped to try and locate the leak. It said that if no leak 
was found it would arrange for the car to be steam cleaned, and closed the complaint.
The car was returned to Mr G but he could still smell diesel and didnt think  the car had been  
stripped or steam cleaned. He wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She was satisfied  that the fault was developing at the 
point of supply  and that the attempt at repair had been unsuccessful. She recommended  that 
Mr G be allowed to reject the car.
Santander didnt  agree. It said that no fuel leak had been found and it wanted to arrange  for 
a full strip down of the car to determine  whether  there was a leak or some other issue  with 
the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement,  theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what   a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair the car. If the attempt isnt successful the consumer can reject  the car.
Mr G and Santander disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need  to look at all of the available evidence  and determine, on 
the balance of probabilities, whether the car is of satisfactory quality. 
Ref: DRN08301132An expert report can help with deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality. In this case, 
the independent inspection found that there was a strong smell of diesel which indicated a 
fuel leak. The engineer  said the fault was developing at the point  of supply and said the car 
should be returned.
Santander has said that the independent report didnt actually find a fuel leak,  nor did any 
other of the garages who inspected the car. It wants to arrange for the car to be stripped 
down.
Ive taken into account Mr Gs testimony  that the car smelt of diesel  and emitted smoke from 
the bonnet the day he took possession of it. I can see that by the time Mr G complained to 
Santander in March 2109, the car had been to the garage three times but the issue  hadnt 
been resolved.
Ive taken into account that this car has been returned to the garage  on more  than one 
occasion. It has also been steam cleaned. Based on this I think the business has already  
had the opportunity to repair the car. So I dont think its reasonable to allow Santander a 
further opportunity  to strip down the car.
The independent inspection is very clear  that there is a fuel leak and that the car should be 
returned. I appreciate  that the leak hasnt  been located but I dont think this prevents me 
from finding that the car isnt of satisfactory  quality.  I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect a used  car to emit smoke and smell of diesel so early on in the agreement.
On balance, and based on what Ive seen,  I dont think the car is of satisfactory quality.  The 
business has had more than one attempt  at repair which hasnt been successful. Mr G 
should be allowed  to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr G.
Refund any deposit paid by Mr G together with simple interest at 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund all monthly payments made  by Mr G since 25 March 2019
Refund the costs  incurred  by Mr G in transferring his personalised number plate
Refund the cost of GAP insurance  pro rata to 25 March 2019  with simple interest at 
8% from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the cost of the Extended Warranty pro rata to 25 March  2019 with simple  
interest at 8% from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0830113