K822xcomplaint
Mr As complaint is that American  Express Services Europe Limited  (AMEX) has treated him 
unfairly in investigating fraud on his accounts,  reviewing  and closing those accounts,  and 
then refusing to re-open them.
background 
Mr A held three credit card accounts  with AMEX. In 2018 he reported some  disputed 
transactions on his account, which were investigated. He later reported a further  three. 
Mr A had balances on all three accounts.  When he wasnt making his due payments, AMEX  
contacted him in late 2018 to explain the consequences of this  such as a default and 
closure of his accounts. There was some confusion as to how much he was due to pay, 
because of the payments in dispute. 
Ultimately, AMEX made a decision to close the accounts and apply  a default. 
Mr A was very unhappy  with this. He complained to AMEX  and it conceded that it hadnt 
reviewed his accounts properly, which had led to their closure. However,  it said that based 
on its up-to-date  criteria  for opening  accounts,  it wasnt willing to reinstate them now.  As an 
acknowledgement of its mistake,  and the impact this had on Mr A, it offered him £200 
compensation.
Mr A didnt think this was at all fair, and brought his complaint  to our service. He said he was 
unhappy that AMEX:-
cancelled his cards  following  an incorrectly carried out review  on his accounts;
-provided him with poor service by missing fraud  investigations; misplacing and not
registering information sent by him correctly and in a timely manner; and for poor 
customer service  throughout this period;  and
-that it wouldnt re-instate his cards.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, seeking further information and evidence from both 
parties. She considered all of this carefully,  then decided that although  AMEX  had made  a 
mistake in its account closure  review, that it was within its rights to now say it couldnt 
reinstate the accounts, and that its offer of £200 compensation to Mr A to resolve his 
complaint was fair and reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree. He felt hed been  treated extremely poorly, and that hadnt it been for 
AMEXs mistake, which it admitted, hed still hold his accounts and would be managing them  
satisfactorily. He didnt accept that AMEX was entitled to decide not to reinstate his 
accounts. He felt that was the only fair way to resolve its mistake.
So he asked for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03272962I can see why Mr A feels as strongly as he does about matters. As far as hes concerned, 
hes been a good AMEX  customer  for eight years, and that due to no fault of his own he was 
defrauded on his accounts, which has ultimately led to the current  state of affairs.  His 
position is that had AMEX  reviewed his accounts properly  at the time, and with all the 
available information,  the decision to close them wouldnt have been taken. 
AMEX admits that its review of the accounts wasnt done entirely correctly, and its for this 
reason its made its £200 offer. But it maintains that its still within  its rights  to decline to 
reinstate/re-open the closed accounts at this stage. It also says that what  its reported to the 
credit reference agencies on the accounts  it true and accurate, which is what  its obliged to 
do when they remain unpaid. 
The facts  of this case arent straightforward. A lot has happened, not all of it properly 
understood at key times. Theres  also been some element of poor communication between 
the parties. Ultimately, we have a situation  where  AMEX has admitted it made a mistake.  So 
I wont be looking into what happened  that led to the default and account closure. 
Whats left for me to decide  is whether,  following its admitted mistake,  AMEX  has since  done 
enough to put things  right. I know my decision will be very disappointing for Mr A, but I think 
that it has. And Id like to explain why.
Part of our role at this service is to try to put a party back into the position  it would have  been  
in had a mistake by another party not happened. And I can see that this is what  Mr A 
expects here  that we rewind to when AMEX reviewed his accounts and decided to close 
them  but this time make the opposite  decision. So they were  never  closed
But I dont think thats fair. Yes, it solves the immediate  issue of placing Mr A back  to where 
he would  have been. But what it doesnt do is take into account the overall  context, 
everything we know  about  what happened to lead to it, and, crucially, whats  happened since 
that decision was made.  
AMEX is a commercial business,  with its own discretion as to when, how,  and to whom to 
provide services. As long as this is within  legal  limits and theres no indication of 
discrimination. I note that there have  been  no allegations of discrimination in this complaint, 
nor have I seen any evidence of it. 
For me to ask AMEX  to re-open Mr As accounts now would be for me to interfere with its 
commercial discretion, as well as with its security measures. While its decision to close  the 
accounts might not have  been entirely correct at the time, it similarly wouldnt be correct  for 
me to direct them to be re-opened now. This is because its not always the fair and 
proportionate response to a mistake to reverse it. Its too simplistic, and can lead to further  
incidences of unfairness. To this extent,  for me to ask AMEX to do this would be punitive, 
and its not my role to punish businesses.
Perhaps if matters havent  moved  on since a mistake was made   and all circumstances are 
materially the same  then it may be that a fair, proportionate and pragmatic response is to 
wind back the clock.  But thats not the case here. A lot has happened since  AMEX made its 
decision to close the accounts. And it wouldnt be fair for me to ignore these facts. Mr A 
hasnt been paying his accounts since January 2019. While he may feel his position is 
entirely justified, he still has a legal obligation  to comply with the terms of his contract with 
AMEX, and AMEX is equally justified in taking this into account when considering  whether  it 
wishes to continue to offer him its services  in future.
Ref: DRN03272963I cant force a business to work with a customer.  Instead, I can ask it to compensate that 
customer for any mistakes its made. 
Here, AMEX has offered  £200. I note that Mr A doesnt want this money, and considers it an 
insult. In truth, I dont  believe  asking  it to increase this amount is going to make any 
difference. Mr A clearly doesnt want only compensation. He wants his accounts to be re-
opened, re-worked, and for his credit file to be cleared. 
But I dont think it would  be fair to ask AMEX to do this. AMEX has a lending  criteria, and is 
entitled to change and update this given various  different factors.  This means the criteria as 
it was when it reviewed  Mr As accounts, compared  to now,  may be quite different. I dont 
know this for sure, as for security reasons Im not privy to all of AMEXs  considerations. But 
Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair for me to say that if it were  to conduct the same review  again 
now  but correctly this time  the result would be that he gets to re-open his accounts.
So while Im sorry for Mr As poor experience, for the reasons Ive given  I cant  ask AMEX  to 
resolve one mistake by potentially making  another (i.e. acting contrary  to its own processes). 
I dont think that would be a fair or proportionate  reaction to whats  happened  here.  Its 
acknowledged its part in why matters have led to where the parties are now, and has offered 
£200 for this. As Ive said, I dont  see that increasing this amount is going to help resolve 
matters, so its now for Mr A to decide whether he wishes to accept it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking American  Express Services  Europe Limited to take 
any further action  to resolve this complaint. And its now a matter  for Mr A whether to accept 
its suggested settlement  of £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0327296