K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ls has complained  that Nationwide Building  Society should  have done  more to protect 
her funds when she was the victim of a scam and that it should reimburse her the lost 
money.
background
Mrs L made contact with someone online who was apparently selling two phones. The seller  
said that they would prefer payment to be made by direct bank transfer.  Therefore, on 
12 December 2018 Mrs L made a transfer  for £450 using online banking. The phones didnt 
arrive as expected  and Mrs L continued to message  the seller and received some  
responses, until the seller eventually blocked  her. At this point Mrs L realised that she must 
have been scammed  and so contacted Nationwide on 21 December to explain what had 
happened and to ask for any help it might be able to offer.  Mrs L explained that she hadnt 
received the items and could no longer contact the seller.
Nationwide told Mrs L that it wouldnt be refunding  the payment and, because of the time 
that had elapsed since the scam took place, it was unlikely that any of the money  would still 
be in the scammers account. But it didnt immediately contact the beneficiary bank to try to 
verify if any of the funds  were recoverable and only made that request on 3 January 2019.  
Because it didnt  follow the correct procedure, Nationwide paid Mrs L £50 compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Nationwide should have done more to identify the payment as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. And he felt that Nationwide had ultimately  done  
enough to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. He also thought  that the £50 
offered by Nationwide  was fair to make  up for the way that Nationwide had initially  dealt  with 
the matter. Mrs L disagrees  with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint  has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Ref: DRN00732432Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mrs L when she transferred the £450, or whether it should have done  more than it did. 
Ive thought about this carefully,  keeping  in mind what Ive mentioned above. Looking  at the 
statements for the account, I dont think the type of payment or the amount  was particularly 
unusual or suspicious  in comparison to Mrs Ls normal account activity.  There isnt anything  
remarkable about  this payment in terms of either its value or payment type. Mrs L had made  
payments for similar amounts previously. So the fact that Nationwides systems didnt flag 
this payment as suspicious was fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Mrs L first contacted Nationwide on 21 December 2018. I can see that Nationwide didnt 
contact the beneficiary  bank on that date to request  a return  of funds.  However, Ive seen 
evidence that the scammer had removed the £450 from their account prior to Mrs L 
contacting Nationwide. So even if Nationwide had contacted  the beneficiary bank straight 
away on 21 December 2018,  it wouldnt  have been able to get the money  back. In light of 
that, I consider its offer of £50 is fair to compensate Mrs L for Nationwide not having followed 
the correct procedure in the first instance.
I really do understand  how upsetting it must be for Mrs L to be the victim of a scam. But after 
considering the available evidence, I think that Nationwides decision not to refund Mrs L in 
this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This is because  Nationwide 
followed her instruction to make the £450 transfer correctly and I havent seen any reason 
why it shouldnt have  done this. And I think it took sufficient steps to try and recover  the 
funds once it was notified of the scam.
Ref: DRN00732433my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0073243