K821x#15the complaint
Mr A says TSB Bank plcs IT issues had an impact  on him and caused a delay issuing a 
replacement credit card.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems, which affected its ability to issue 
some credit cards. Towards  the end of September 2018 Mr A asked TSB to cancel his credit 
card and send him a replacement. TSB said this would take about a week,  but Mr A had to 
call several times over the next few months  and it took until January  2019  to get his card.  
In mid-November TSB assured Mr A it would be able to issue a replacement card in two 
weeks time. At that point it paid him £150 for distress and inconvenience  and £96 for call 
costs, which  included an extra hours worth of calls Mr A might have to make  when he called 
back in December to order  the card. But it still took three more attempts before the card was 
successfully issued.  Mr A said hed found  the whole experience very stressful.
Two adjudicators looked at Mr As complaint  and concluded that the £246  of compensation 
TSB had already  paid was fair overall.  As Mr A wasnt happy with this, the complaint was 
referred to me. And after considering it I issued a provisional decision upholding it. Briefly, I 
concluded that:
It took over three months and a lot of lengthy  phone calls before Mr A was given a 
replacement credit card.  And he was given very different information during each call. 
So this would have  been confusing and stressful for him, as well as inconvenient. 
Not having  a credit card may have  made  it harder for Mr A to manage his finances  and 
led him to rely on his overdrafts more than he would otherwise  have done  potentially  
causing him to pay more  overdraft  interest.  And the problem went  on for some time after 
TSB paid him compensation, causing  extra inconvenience and call costs.  
So I provisionally concluded that TSB should pay Mr A another £150 to fairly 
compensate him for the impact  this had. 
Mr A and TSB have  accepted my provisional  decision. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has accepted my provisional decision.  And TSB has also said it is happy to pay Mr A 
another £150 in compensation. So, as neither party has given me any reason to change  my 
provisional findings, my final decision is the same. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I direct  TSB Bank  plc to pay him 
another £150 for the impact the IT issues had on him, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Ref: DRN02184542Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0218454