K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about three payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policies taken out in 
1996, 2009 and 2010. Ms J says Lloyds  Bank  Plc mis-sold her the MPPI policies. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms Js case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  I know this will be disappointing  for Ms J, she 
clearly feels very strongly about her complaint. Ill explain  my reasons below.
Ms J says that it was not made clear that the MPPI policies  were optional products and that 
she took them to be a required part of the overall  mortgage  she also says that its often the 
case youre told to just sign below.
Ms J was sold her MPPI policies during meetings  with Lloyds  so I cant  know exactly  what  
was said at the time  and as Ms J hasnt said much about  this either. So I have to base my 
decision on the information I do have.
For the policy sold in 1996, theres very little information available  but this isnt unusual  for 
a policy  that was sold so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. In order for me to uphold her complaint in this area,  Id have to think  that it was 
more likely that she wasnt  given  a choice in taking  the policy  but I dont have enough to 
say that that this was the case. So I cant uphold her complaint about the 1996 policy for this 
reason.
Lloyds has been  able to provide copies of paperwork  relating to the policies  sold in 2009  and 
2010, which were  both taken out with further  advances. This includes the further advance 
application, separate MPPI applications (all signed  by Ms J), and two demands and needs 
statements that were  completed  at the time. 
Nowhere on the applications for a further advance does it suggest  that the MPPI is 
compulsory  and as a separate application was completed for both policies, I think this 
shows that they were  separate products. It also appears from the notes made on the 
demands and needs  statement that the policies were discussed along  with Ms Js personal 
circumstances.
So taking everything in to account,  I think that its more likely the MPPI policies were  
presented as optional, and Ms J chose to take them out. 
Lloyds recommended all the MPPI policies to Ms J so it had to check that they were  right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances, I think that they were. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover.  
Ms J has also told us told us that she had a very good relationship  with her employer, and 
that she would not have  been let to suffer financial hardship had she been ill, and was 
unlikely to be made redundant  although  if she was to be made redundant, she wouldve 
Ref: DRN09227122had no trouble finding employment. So she didnt need the cover. But MPPI, like all 
insurance, is designed to pay out should the unexpected happen. Im sure that Ms Js 
employer wouldve wanted to do all they could to help if she was unwell, but this isnt 
guaranteed, and circumstances can change.  And while Ms J may be confident in her ability 
to find a new job in the unfortunate event  she was made unemployed, this may take a while 
 and the MPPI couldve provided useful cover  at an already stressful time. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms J about the MPPI policies wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like they could have  been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the MPPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms J.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the 1996  MPPI to Ms J because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI  
premium) - so it should have told Ms J about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Ms J, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Lloyds has now also offered to pay back some  of cost of the 2009 and 2010 MPPI  policies 
for the same reasons.
Ive thought about everything Ms J has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Ms J.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Ms J any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  I understand  it has already done this for the 
1996 policy  Lloyds Bank Plc should now do the same for the policies sold in 2009 and 
2010.
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0922712