K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Telefonica UK Limited  (O2) took money from his account without 
authorisation and that hes being  chased  for payments for a phone  he no longer has. He 
says hes spent a lot of time and money  trying to sort things  out and wants compensation.
background 
Mr R tells us he decided  to change phone suppliers to O2 as he was offered a discount. He 
says he entered  into a fixed  sum loan agreement  for the phone  but returned  the item as hed 
ordered the wrong size. But he says payments were still taken from his account. And hes 
been chased for payments including  a default warning notice. Mr R seeks  to claim 
compensation for postage  costs  £47; stationary £10; £124 taken from bank account; £64 
refund from closed account; £146  for his personal  time.  
O2 told us it would refund the £64 due from the payments made  towards the device. It had 
further offered  £36.24 regarding air time charges  arising whilst the account hadnt been  
closed and £30 goodwill.  But it was prepared to offer £15 towards postage  costs  - even 
though it did not feel liable  for these.
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr Rs complaint should be upheld but she thought  the offer 
made by O2 had been fair. She also said she wasnt able to deal with all aspects of Mr Rs 
complaint as we couldnt look at issues involving the airtime contract.
Mr R didnt agree and said he felt the level of compensation  didnt reflect the costs hed 
incurred. As its not been possible to resolve the issue  an ombudsman has been asked to 
make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr R has experienced a good deal of upset and frustration about whats happened.  
And I can understand his annoyance that what should have been a relatively  simple  process 
of cancelling  an order and dealing with the refund  process has proved so problematic.
Mr Rs complaint involves  a number of separate issues and whilst theyre all inter-related 
there are certain issues regarding the air-time contract which I cant look at. They dont  fall 
within our jurisdiction as they werent  part of the credit  agreement for the phone.  And whilst I 
mention them for completeness  I cant formally include any recommendations about these in 
my final decision.
From what  Ive seen Mr R returned  the phone - but O2 had some  problems in tracking this 
and in refunding  the payments which had been  made. And whilst the contract  had been 
cancelled in April,  Mr R was still issued with demands for payment in May. This included a 
default warning  notice which I think would have been particularly stressful. I cant see any 
reasonable excuse for this having  been sent as the contract  had been  cancelled several 
weeks earlier. Im aware O2 has offered a £30 goodwill payment. But given the serious 
nature of a default and the natural  concern that would be caused by the threat of an adverse 
impact on his credit record I feel the level of distress caused to Mr R hasnt been fully 
recognised. Im going to increase the award  for distress and inconvenience to £100.
Ref: DRN02947052I shant make any separate award for other  costs claimed in making the complaint. We dont 
make awards based on charges for personal  time spent in making  a complaint. And Id 
expect a complainant  to minimise the costs of postage  and calls by using free services  
whenever feasible. Im not sure where the £124 to which Mr R has made reference arises - it 
may be linked  to the airtime account - as I havent  seen evidence  it relates to the phone 
supply agreement.
So whilst Im upholding his complaint Im aware  Mr R is likely to be disappointed Ive not 
gone as far as he would  wish in the level of redress  being ordered. But I do think  its a fair 
and reasonable outcome in respect of those aspects  of the complaint I can look at.
Id expect O2 to make separate refunds  for any relevant aspects  of the airtime contract  - but 
I cant include them in my final decision for the reasons Ive explained.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  in part.
Im ordering  Telefonica UK Limited to:
1.Refund £64 to Mr R for payments made towards the cancelled agreement. Simple  
interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to this figure  from date of 
payment to date of settlement.
2.Pay £15 towards postage costs.
3.Pay Mr R a total of £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0294705