K820x#14complaint
Ms F complained she was mis-sold  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  policy 
by Coventry Building  Society (CBS) in 1994.  
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said they thought the complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
Ms F disagreed with this and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when  deciding  this 
case.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
This sale took place  a considerable  time ago and although Ms F says she didnt need this 
type of cover, she hasnt said much about the sale process.
However I dont think theres much  doubt  that there  would have probably been a discussion  
about the MPPI during  Ms Fs mortgage interview. I say this because I see we still have a 
copy of the policy schedule  she was given which explained the main  aspects of the cover.
CBS also sent me an example of the type of application form Ms F would have needed to 
use to get such  an MPPI  policy and looking  at the wording I think it would have been easy 
for her to see she had a choice and that the MPPI was a different product to her mortgage. 
CBS also showed  me the direct debit form Ms F would have used to authorise the MPPI 
monthly premiums to be transferred from her bank  account.
I accept we no longer  have all the original documents from the time of this sale still available,  
but after 25 years  I dont think thats either  unreasonable  or surprising. All the above  
information shows, in my view, that its likely Ms F specifically applied for MPPI  and would 
have known such a policy had been  set up in her name. 
I think CBS properly obtained her consent.
I havent seen  anything that would  make me think this was an advised  sale so this means  
CBSs responsibility  was limited to giving information that was clear, so Ms F could make  her 
own informed decision about  whether  or not to buy the MPPI. 
Obviously after such a long time Im not able to confirm  this happened or that she was told 
everything she ought to have been  told. But as Ive said, the information I have clearly shows  
that Ms F was aware of the policy. She would have been able to see from the schedule  who 
it was set up to protect and what eventualities  it covered. I note it was also shown how to 
make contact if there were  any other  details she needed to have.
Its possible that CBS could have done more to ensure Ms F understood things  during  the 
sale. But I dont think this really matters to the decision about this case  because I think  
theres solid evidence  the cover  was something  Ms F wanted to have.  I also think she was 
Ref: DRN05296652eligible for the MPPI and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. And at around £14 per month, I also think the policy  was affordable  for her.
I see Ms F would have enjoyed sickness protection with her at the time and I agree that it 
would have probably been  quite  generous.  Ive thought carefully  about  this and I understand 
the point being made.  But again,  this doesnt change what  I think. As a non-advised sale, 
the decision about whether the MPPI suited her was for Ms F to make.  This was also a 
mortgage secured  against her home, so the consequences of not being able to keep up 
payments on it could have  been  serious.  The mortgage would have been a long-term  and 
important financial commitment and so the policy was, in my view,  of use. I think  this is why 
she decided to buy it.
In summary,  I think there is persuasive evidence that this MPPI  was something Ms F wanted 
to have at the time. I dont think it was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint or direct Coventry Building Society to pay any 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0529665