K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complained hed been unsuitably advised to transfer preserved benefits  from an 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) by Pullen & Shaw Financial  Services.
Pullen & Shaw Financial  Services  (P&S),  were the regulated partnership  who advised Mr F 
at the time. T. Shaw Financial Services was a linked name of the same business at the time, 
or shortly afterwards.
Background
Mr F says that in 1989 he was in contact with the adviser at P&S. This was because hed 
recently become  self- employed and wanted  to start a personal pension  plan (PPP). Mr F 
says that as well as arranging this PPP, the adviser went on to suggest transferring 
preserved pension  benefits from his ex-employers  scheme into another new personal  
pension arrangement. At the time he was advised  to transfer  Mr F was :
Aged  32
Married with no dependants
Working as a self-employed carpenter earning around £10,300 a year
His wife was employed earning around  the same amount
They owned their home on which there was a mortgage
He had occupational scheme pension benefits from nine years of service  (ceasing in 
June 1989)
He had a personal  pension  which had started  in October  1989
Mr F was advised by P&S to transfer his preserved  OPS benefits into a personal pension  
plan in the summer of 1990. This went on to take place in 1991.
Mr F says he wasnt provided with alternative  quotes or illustrations or alternative options.  
He says that if he hadnt been advised he would  have left his benefits with the OPS.  Mr F 
says that he is now retired and taking benefits  from the PPP he opened in 1989, that 
matured in April 2018. The plan which received the contribution derived from his OPS is due 
to mature in 2023. Mr F says he hasnt  been advised in relation to his pension  or retirement 
at any other  point; and these plans were and are his sole pension arrangements.
Mr F more recently contacted the provider of his pension plan about what  had happened.  
They explained they hadnt  advised  him on the transfer from his OPS.  They  provided the 
name of the advice  firm that had arranged and advised  on the transfer.  They also explained  
this firm was no longer in business and provided  the last known address.
Mr F came to this service  seeking help as he didnt understand what  was said by the 
provider, what had happened and who to contact  to find out more information. He sent us 
copies of what he had from the time. He thought hed suffered a significant  loss as a 
consequence of transferring out. He said hed never been advised  of a right of review and he 
didnt think the advice had been right for him.
It was established  the transfer  was arranged by Pullen & Shaw Financial Services. The 
provider thinks this was a trading name  of T. Shaw Financial Services  (it isnt clear to me if 
the latter name became the primary name at some  point). But no point is taken on this and 
the partner who was the adviser had been one of the two partners of the firm was contacted 
and has been  responding to this complaint.
Ref: DRN04323632This partner  confirmed the firm had been  regulated at the time. He went  on to tell us that as 
everything had happened  a long time ago, he didnt  have any information or material  from 
the time.  He said he had looked but couldnt  find anything.
The provider sent us copies of what they had from the time.
The adviser has told us he is now over 80 and has no memory  of this case  and points out 
the advice was given 29 years ago. He has commented on his recollection of the time where 
he says there was an emphasis on newer style personal pensions  in respect of increased 
flexibility. The adviser says that he has identified from the information that Mr F had 33 years 
until retirement at the time. He says his usual practice was to obtain quotations from three 
companies. Here he believes Mr F became self-employed and so a personal pension would 
have enabled  ongoing contributions. And so, he thinks where it was advantageous to do so 
this is what would have  happened. He has commented on various providers  paying  annual 
bonuses at the time of a generous amount. The adviser asked us to appreciate that he took 
the same  actions in respect of his own pension  planning.
The adviser has commented that he thinks it would  have  become obvious that a single 
premium payment would  not produce  the required pension due to the reduction  in 
investment returns and deteriorating  annuity  rates which he says were  publicised  in the 
press. He also comments that Mr F would have been receiving ongoing statements and 
thinks Mr F could have  reflected on the different financial climate in which  we now live.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he could uphold Mr Fs complaint. He thought that when the 
transfer had been recommended it would have been  seen  as suitable. He thought the rate of 
investment growth  used  for illustrative  purposes at the time, would have been deemed as 
achievable. He also thought the preserved  OPS  benefits would have been expected to be a 
small part of Mr Fs overall retirement  provision given  it only reflected nine years of work and 
Mr F was due to be working  for many more  years. So, he didnt think  Mr Fs complaint ought 
to be upheld.
Mr F didnt  agree. In summary he said:
He couldnt  understand  why the adjudicator  rejected  his complaint since  it was 
accepted there is a very significant difference in the actual levels  of pension  income 
due to the transfer he was advised to make.
The letter from his adviser (dated  16*' July 1990) focusses purely on the higher  
potential outcome from the illustration provided  at the time.
It appears he considers  this to have been  mis-leading and incomplete information.
The letter from the adviser specifically states: It would appear in this instance, as 
with most people of your age, that it would  be beneficial to transfer the amount from 
[your OPS]... and use it in your own existing Pension Contract to provide more 
worthwhile benefits at retirement age as a result  of having profits  added  for the 
period from now until you are 65.
There is no comparison of, or differentiation between, the guaranteed employer's 
pension benefits  against either of the projected outcomes from the new proposed 
Ref: DRN04323633provider; and the guaranteed benefits from the employer's scheme are higher than 
the lower projection  from the proposed new providers illustration.
There is absolutely no reference  to this in his letter, and no verbal reference to this 
was ever made.
There is no mention of any risk associated  with the illustrations/ projections.  Or of 
any potential volatility / performance  risk over such a long period of proposed 
investment.
Mr F says he has always been financially risk averse he would have  considered the 
options before him with greater care had any such reference been  made.
Mr F relied  on the adviser  to look after his best long-term financial interests and Mr F 
understood the transfer would unquestionably be more beneficial to him.
Mr F also felt that the absence of papers on the part of the adviser  had somehow weakened 
Mr Fs complaint. Mr F didnt think this ought to prevent  an unbiased assessment of what  
had happened. Mr F said t no further  discussions took place between  him and the adviser 
after the initial advice,  beyond him confirming  agreement  to follow the advice he provided in 
his letter  of 16*' July 1990.
Mr F doesnt think it requires hindsight to see the adviser omitted to mention key factors,  
which any professional  should have referenced  when giving professional advice, whatever 
the market conditions prevailing at the time. And he feels  the adjudicator used hindsight to 
justify the lack of any proper  balance or caution provided in the advice.
Mr F says the adjudicator  was wrong to conclude the preserved OPS benefits  would have  
been expected to be a small part of his overall retirement provision. The adviser knew Mr F 
had left the employer linked to the OPS  to become self-employed in 1989  and had advised 
previously on the opening  of a PPP when this happened. And knew that these two schemes 
at that time and as far as could be anticipated  into the future,  would be Mr Fs only personal 
pension provision. 
So, he says the adviser was fully aware  Mr F was putting himself  in a position  that depended  
entirely on market performance for his retirement planning. And he thinks  it was wrong the 
adviser failed to suggest there might be merit in considering alternative providers for the 
second PPP.
He thinks it is of relevance that if he had retained his guaranteed  employer's scheme  
pension benefit,  his income on reaching  65 would more than double.  Instead the annuity 
forecast predicted by his provider in June 2018 of only around £280 a year,  is clearly  a very 
long way short of the £7,875 a year that he says he could have received from the OPS. 
Mr F has let us know that the consequence of the advice he considers  unsuitable  is a 
devastating shortfall in income and very significant impact on him and his wife.
He has gone on to ask us to be aware  that his accountant introduced him to the adviser. He 
thinks the accountant felt slightly uncomfortable  with the arrangement, as he subsequently 
deducted from Mr Fs annual bill the sum he had received from the adviser for the 
introduction.
Ref: DRN04323634Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree broadly with the 
findings of the adjudicator.
Based on what I have seen I dont  think there  is enough for me to conclude  the advice  Mr F 
received to transfer was unsuitable  for him at the time. I accept there are aspects of the 
advice that cause me concern and particularly in the way the advice appears to have been 
communicated. But that doesnt mean overall  there is enough in these circumstances to say 
it was necessarily unsuitable at the time.
I have looked  at the limited material that is available with real care. I accept  Mr F was 
advised by P&S, also potentially known as T. Shaw  Financial Services . This firm was a 
partnership at the time, and theres  nothing  to suggest the apparent ongoing  responsibility  of 
the partners here ceased. I accept the advice recommended the transfer of Mr Fs preserved 
pension benefits  from his OPS. This led to the transfer of a single contribution  into a new 
plan.
The original  adviser/  partner didnt say it was too late for Mr F to complain to this firm. 
However, he stressed the length of time since the advice  was provided and says this means 
he has no memory of the specific  advice  nor records available.  He also suggested Mr F 
ought to have realised there was a problem  at some time prior to when he complained.  I 
havent been asked to make a decision on this specifically, but I feel its right for 
completeness to note I disagree. I havent  seen  anything  that makes  me think Mr F would 
have had sufficient  experience or understanding to appreciate that changes in the general 
financial climate and investment performance  ought to indicate to Mr F that a transfer made 
in 1991 ought to give him cause for concern. I dont think he had enough information to 
enable him to have  been  expected  to make any meaningful comparison of benefits over the  
years. And I have  some  concern about whether he had sufficient information at the time he 
was advised. It is understandable that when Mr F came to retire  he came to review his 
arrangements. But, and I am sorry this will disappoint Mr F, I dont  think  my concern is 
enough for me to uphold the complaint  here,  taking everything into account.
I am unclear as to why Mr Fs transfer  didnt apparently fall to be considered under the 
industry-wide pension review. But based  on the information from the provider who received 
the transfer benefits, it doesnt appear the advice was considered under the review. Had it 
have been considered, as I would have expected it to have been then, Mr F would have 
known at a much earlier stage whether it was considered  the transfer wasnt  the right thing 
for him at the time.
The pension review  was introduced in October  1994, by the then regulator, establishing an 
industry-wide review of particular pension business  carried out by authorised firms  between  
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994.  Some of the concerns highlighted by and formed  part of 
the review reflect my dis-satisfaction  with the way Ive seen  advice provided  in the letter  from 
July 1990.
Given the passage  of time and the limited  material available I have had to work on a more  
limited basis than a review that would have taken place closer to the time. So, it is very 
unfortunate that it will no doubt feel unfair  to Mr F, that the absence of records and the 
passing of time are leaving him in a detrimental  position.
Ref: DRN04323635Taking into account what is known and the circumstances  at the time I dont think  there is 
enough for me to conclude that at the time the advice  was given, a transfer would have 
necessarily been  wrong  for Mr F, based  on his circumstances  at the time, and the prevailing  
approaches. But as I have  said, there are areas Ive identified that appeared  to me to be 
unsatisfactory. These areas tend to concur with a number of the concerns Mr F identified in 
his response to the adjudicators view.
I have looked  at the letter from Mr Fs adviser (dated 16 July 1990) to Mr F. I dont think  the 
contents of this letter are as clear or appropriately  expressed as I would hope to have seen.  I 
accept this letter reflects advice  given to Mr F overall, and that Mr F would have  reasonably 
relied on the advice  he was given  at the time.  I think it might  be reasonably suggested that 
some of the language used in the letter might have been potentially misleading. It contains  
some of the phrases and approaches that the pension review  went on to express concerns 
about. For example;
The use of the phrase  frozen  to describe Mr Fs benefits  might be considered  an 
inadequate and potentially mis-leading description.
Where the highest investment growth rate of 13% is the one used and referred to in 
the letter; again this might  be considered to be mis-leading, instead  of using the 
range of potential  growth rates.
And I think  there is an apparent, or at least potential failure to set out the comparison 
on the potential  returns and pension benefits  in a meaningful  way and on an equal  
basis. It is not clear to me for example whether the PPP illustration and comparison  
is based on a single  life cover or whether there was a spouse  s benefit compared to 
the benefit being given up on transfer).
However, this doesnt mean that it would  have been wrong to recommend a transfer, 
particularly based  on the limited information I have. I accept Mr F had a comparatively  
limited period of service  and that it would have been reasonable to think  hed have  a 
significant time until retirement  to continue making retirement provision. Ive seen here Mr F 
started a PPP on becoming  self- employed. I accept the future couldnt be known, but it 
wouldnt be unreasonable to expect Mr F to have had many years  of work ahead of him at 
the time;  it was anticipated that Mr F would continue to work to the age of 65.
I also think its important to take into account the circumstances  at the time.  The investment 
growth rates that were  considered achievable  at the time, have not been borne out. But at 
the time they were considered achievable,  so based on the single contribution here,  with the 
potential for long term growth it is not enough  for me to say that this was unsuitable advice 
when it was given.
Ive seen what Mr F says about the omission  of what he refers to as key factors  at the time 
of the advice. I hope he will understand that I have sympathy with what he says about this. It 
reflects much  of what the regulator went on to highlight  only a few years later about  how 
such advice ought  to be approached. But given the time that has passed,  the limited  
information that is available and what is known  from the time,  despite some dis-satisfying 
features, it isnt enough for me to think a transfer  was the wrong  thing at the time here.
Ref: DRN04323636Final decision
For the reasons  given  I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Pullen & Shaw Financial 
Services; also known as T. Shaw  Financial  Services.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0432363