K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) treated her unfairly when 
she experienced financial difficulties.
background
Mrs E had a finance agreement with Creation which she took in 2011.  The agreement  was 
for 48 months with 42 payments of £35.73  after an initial deferred payment period of six 
months.
These payments  were made  until September 2012, at which point Mrs E experienced a drop 
in her household  income resulting in financial difficulties. 
Mrs E spoke to her local Citizens Advice Bureau  (CAB) to help her arrange repayment  plans  
with her creditors. She wrote  to them all, including Creation, to detail what  she felt she could 
pay  based on her income  and expenditure assessment.
Creation set up a repayment plan for £1.00 per month but said it needed to see proof of the 
income and expenditure. It requested this from Mrs E. It attempted  to call her a number of 
times in an attempt to confirm this. Mrs E kept a diary of these times after she felt Creations 
attempts to contact  her were becoming excessive. She also said CAB logged a complaint 
with the Office of Fair Trading over the number  of calls Creation was making.  The adviser at 
CAB also wrote to Creation detailing why Mrs E could only pay what was offered on the 
account.
When Creation didnt receive the information it said it needed to agree an ongoing 
repayment plan,  it passed the outstanding  balance  on Mrs Es account to a third party debt 
collector. Any charges  relating to this were added to the outstanding debt.
The third party let Mrs E know that a payment  plan could be accepted.  However, due to the 
amount of time it expected it to take for this plan to repay the debt in full it would be applying 
for a charge  to be applied against Mrs Es property for the debt. A county court  judgement 
was also recorded  against Mrs E for the default  on her original credit agreement.
The repayment plan has been maintained since its inception in early  2013. Mrs E is unhappy 
that after the repayment amount was agreed by the courts, the debt collection agent  
attempted to increase this. However, the plan has continued and the monthly  amounts have 
increased from £1.00 gradually  in line with what Mrs E can afford to repay.
Mrs E complained to Creation in 2018,  she didnt think  it had treated her fairly when she 
asked for help with her repayments in 2012.  And she believed the number of phone  calls 
and its attempts to try and recover this money  were excessive  adding to the distress she 
was experiencing.  She explained she hadnt  complained sooner because  of the impact of 
Creations actions and her not being able to cope with this. But she was now able to do so.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Es complaint. He felt Creation was entitled to register a 
county court judgement for the debt. And that the courts have  decided  whether it was fair 
that an interim charge was applied against  Mrs Es house and we couldnt change  this. But 
he felt Creation failed  in its duty to act in a positive and sympathetic manner towards the 
debt when Mrs E let them know she was experiencing financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN08193462He felt it was clear this had an impact on Mrs E and the situation  she found  herself  in was 
made more  stressful  as a result of Creations actions. He recommended that Creation pay 
Mrs E £250.00 in recognition of this. Mrs E agreed  with his findings.
Creation didnt agree. It said it hadnt received the second letter  from CAB providing the 
information it was requesting  about  the income and expenditure details. And it felt if this was 
being provided, it would have been  reasonable for Mrs E to explain this to its advisers  when 
it attempted  to contact  her on the phone.  It said it needed to proactively  chase  its debt 
because of the limited  time it could allow a reduced payment and it didnt feel its actions 
were unfair. It also felt Mrs E could have raised her complaint sooner.
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint, for 
much the same reasons as our investigator. 
It isnt disputed that Mrs E had agreed  to the credit agreement she had with Creation and 
that she wasnt able to maintain this. And Creation  applied  for a county court judgement  in 
respect of this. I havent commented on this as this isnt in dispute.
Ive focused on the whether I feel Creation acted, overall, in a positive and sympathetic 
manner as per the expectation on a creditor when a customer is experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Mrs E was proactive in her attempts to reduce  the impact of her financial circumstances 
changing with her creditors. And she worked with CAB to provide a breakdown of what   at 
the start  she could  afford to repay  towards her debts. This was provided to Creation.  I 
appreciate after this Creation said it didnt receive  the follow up information  it requested  in 
response to this. But I think its fair to say it was made aware of Mrs Es situation and should 
have been aware  that it needed  to act in a positive  and sympathetic manner.
The number of phone calls Creation made after this point to pursue the debt cant be 
confirmed. Creation said its call log shows all calls made. But Mrs E has provided a log of 
the calls she said she received following her complaint about its action to the Office  of Fair 
Trading  this shows more calls than Creations call log. And in the absence of Creation 
showing all calls dialled,  Im persuaded on balance this is likely  to be a fair reflection of the 
number of calls she was receiving.
There are days  when  more than three calls were  attempted  often within a short period of 
time. With Creation being aware of Mrs Es significant drop in her income I dont think its fair 
to say its actions here were positive or sympathetic.
Creation has questioned  why, during one of its many attempts to speak with Mrs E, she 
didnt say shed  sent in the income  and expenditure proof. While I agree this would have 
been helpful, I understand why this might not have  happened. Mrs E explained  how the 
number of phone calls Creation made and its actions chasing  her for the debt were making 
her feel distressed and upset. She had previously  used CAB to help negotiate  with her other 
creditors and Creation. And with the calls coming directly  to Mrs E without this third party 
Ref: DRN08193463being able to assist her, I can see why she found  it stressful and upsetting  especially when 
I consider the number  and frequency of these calls.
When Creation wasnt  able to speak with Mrs E on the phone,  I think it could have 
considered other options to try and let her know what it needed. And this could have helped 
Mrs E to engage with it on this.
Mrs E has also explained  how these calls impacted  on her whole family. While I cant  
consider the impact of Creations actions on her family directly   as they arent its customers 
 I can see why this would have further  upset and distressed Mrs E.
Mrs E said she needed to change jobs as a result of the stress she experienced because of 
Creations actions. However, I cant say this change was all because of Creations approach 
to this debt and I dont think it would be fair to do so.
The court agreed  an interim charge, setting out what it expected Mrs E to pay each month. 
Despite this she was still contacted by the debt collection agent trying to arrange a higher 
payment. This again would have added  to the stress of the situation when she could have 
reasonably believed that she now only needed to maintain the payment plan.
Mrs E said for a long time she found  even discussing  what  happened with Creation to 
upsetting and this is why she didnt  complain sooner. I understand this and dont think this 
delay can be taken  to show  the impact was reduced.
Overall, I think Creation has failed to demonstrate  how it approached Mrs E and her situation 
in a positive and sympathetic manner. And its actions have caused further distress and 
upset to what was already  a distressing time.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay Mrs E £250.00 in recognition  of the impact  its 
actions had on her and the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0819346