K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim she made under 
her travel insurance policy.
background
Mrs S was due to go on holiday with her sister.  Very sadly,  about  a week  before they were  
due to travel, her ex-husband suffered a serious  heart attack (or attacks) and was in hospital 
receiving intensive  care. Mrs S and her sister  cancelled their holiday and were refunded the 
cost of their accommodation from the hotel. Mrs S sought  to claim back the cost of her flight 
from Aviva.
Aviva declined Mrs Ss claim.  It said that cancellation cover didnt extend to her ex-husband 
and he wasnt a close relative according to the policy  definition.
Mrs S then brought  her complaint to our service. Our adjudicator  didnt think that Aviva  had 
done anything  wrong and didnt recommend  that the complaint be upheld.  
Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.  She explained that whilst the holiday 
was cancelled because  of her ex-husbands heart attacks, she had to stay home to support  
their children - in particular her youngest daughter  who struggled  to cope. She also 
mentioned that her sisters insurer settled her claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and although I recognise 
that this will come as a great disappointment to Mrs S, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ss policy covers  travel and accommodation  costs that have been lost if Mrs S 
unavoidably cancels  her holiday for a number  of reasons - including  a close  relative falling 
seriously ill. Close relative is defined in the policy as:
Your mother, father, sister, brother,  partner who lives with you, fiance(e), daughter,  son,
grandparent, grandchild,  parent-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in 
law, step-parent, step-child, step-sister, step-brother,  aunt, uncle, cousin nephew, niece, 
legal guardian or foster child
Its not in dispute  here that Mrs S cancelled her holiday because  of her ex-husbands serious 
illness (as opposed to, for example, her childs serious illness). And its clear from the 
definition that Mrs Ss ex-husband doesnt fall within the definition of close  relative. Its up to 
the insurer to decide  which relationships it wants to cover so, on the face of it, I cant  say that 
Aviva has done anything wrong in applying the policy  definition.
Nevertheless I have thought carefully  about  what Mrs S has told us, in particular to see if her 
relationship with her ex-husband  was very similar  to one of the covered relationships.  For 
example, I might have  thought it was if Mrs S still lived with her ex-husband and she was his 
main carer. Although  Mrs S has said that they are regularly in contact, meeting up 
occasionally for a coffee  or a walk and celebrating special occasions with their family, they 
dont live together. I havent  ignored the fact that she and her ex-husband have a close 
Ref: DRN05885832relationship and have children and grandchildren together. But in the circumstances I think it 
was fair for Aviva to decline the claim.
I can understand why Mrs S felt the need to cancel the holiday. She was told that her ex-
husband was in a life or death  situation and as she has said there  is no way that she would 
not have been there  for her children and grandchildren. No-one is questioning the decision 
that she made. But that doesnt make Avivas  decision to decline the claim unfair. The policy  
only provides cover  in certain situations;  and unfortunately it doesnt cover  the situation  
Mrs S found  herself in. 
Mrs S has said that her sisters policy did cover the situation, but I am not able to comment  
on her sisters claim here.
my final decision
For the reason  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0588583