K820x#14complaint
This complaint ha been brought by Mrs Gs daughter, Mrs C, on her behalf. She complains
that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited only gave  her £270 when she made a cash withdrawal of
£370. Mrs Gs account  was debited with the full amount  of £370.
background
Mrs C has explained that her mother had a hospital appointment. Mrs G therefore asked her 
daughter to make a withdrawal of £370 at the Post Office at the hospital  while  she (Mrs G) 
waited outside.  J. P. Morgan administers the Post Office account into which  Mrs Gs benefits 
are paid.
Mrs C made  the withdrawal as her mother requested and gave the money to her mother.  
Later that day, however,  Mrs C says they noticed that the payment was £100 short  shed 
only be given £270 instead of £370. Mrs C contacted J. P. Morgan.
J. P. Morgan checked the branch records, but was satisfied that the cash  had been properly 
dispensed. There were  no cash discrepancies  that might account  for a missing £100.  Mrs G 
and Mrs C werent satisfied with J. P. Morgans response and referred  the complaint to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered it. He was satisfied, on balance, that Mrs 
C had received the correct amount of £370. He was concerned however that J. P. Morgans 
evidence had at times  been contradictory;  for example, it had initially  said that a staff 
member had seen Mrs C count the money at the till, but later said they hadnt  seen that. The 
investigator expressed concern too that no CCTV footage was available; that might have 
been conclusive and would certainly have  helped the investigation.
The investigator took the view that J. P. Morgans  investigation had been inadequate and 
that had caused additional  stress  for which Mrs G should be compensated. He suggested a 
payment of £100.  J. P. Morgan didnt accept the investigators findings  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint. 
I did that and reached much the same  conclusions as the investigator had about  the cash 
withdrawal. That is, I agreed  that it was more likely than not that Mrs G had received £370, 
as shed requested.  It was unlikely in my view that the cashier had made  a mistake; had that 
been the case, the difference would have  shown in the branch records. It was unlikely too 
that the cashier had kept £100; there  wasnt any evidence to support such  a finding. The 
most likely explanation for the missing cash was that Mrs C and Mrs G had made an 
innocent mistake in counting the money. 
I disagreed with the investigators conclusion, however,  that J. P. Morgan should pay Mrs G 
£100 because  of the way it had handled the case.  I explained that I can only make an award  
of compensation  for distress and inconvenience as part of a money  award; and I can only 
make a money award  if I determine  a complaint  in favour of the complainant. In this case, 
that means that I can only make a money  award  if I conclude that J. P. Morgan  was wrong to 
debit Mrs Gs account with £370.  But, since Im satisfied that Mrs G did receive £370, it 
wasn't wrong  to debit  the account  with that sum. 
It followed that, given  my findings  about the withdrawal  itself, I had no power to make  an 
award in respect  of the way J. P. Morgan handled the complaint. 
J. P. Morgan accepted  my provisional  findings. Mrs G didnt respond to them.          
Ref: DRN00802122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the circumstances, theres  no reason 
for me to change  my conclusions from those  reached in my provisional decision. I stress 
however that I make  no comment at all on J. P. Morgans handling of the matter, but I cant  
make an award based solely on how it dealt with the complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require J.P. Morgan Europe Limited to 
take any further steps to resolve Mrs Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision before 
3 July 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0080212