K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this. I say this because Ive been 
given a copy of the application form completed  at the time and this includes a section about  
PPI. In this section  there is a box to tick if PPI is required and I can see that the box has 
been ticked on the form. Mr S has signed  the form which suggests he agreed with everything 
that had been entered. If Mr S didnt want to take out the PPI he could have left the box 
blank.
Mr S has said he wasnt aware that he had PPI on his account but from what we know  
about the way the premiums were taken,  the charge for the policy  would most likely have 
shown as a separate entry on his credit card statements. If Mr S didnt know what  this 
charge was for or hadnt agreed to take it out, I think he would have raised this with 
Barclays sooner than he did.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And even though Mr S has told us he 
was entitled to two months full sick pay from his employer, followed by four months half 
pay, this policy would  have paid out for up to 12 months which  would be in addition to, and 
potentially for longer than,  any sick pay he would  receive. So it looks like it would have been 
useful for him if something  went wrong. And I havent seen anything from the time of the 
sale which suggests the PPI was unaffordable.  So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Ref: DRN08599992Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0859999