K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about how Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited handled and settled a claim 
he made under his home insurance  policy for damage to his roof. 
background
Mr B has a buildings and contents  insurance  policy with Admiral.  The policy that is relevant 
to this complaint  commenced on 11 December 2017, although Mr B held insurance with 
Admiral before that date. 
In July 2018 Mr B became aware  of some dislodged tiles on his roof after he was having  
some general maintenance done on his house. He said a contractor he was using told him a 
number of tiles had moved and there  were  gaps showing. He also said the roof appeared to 
have moved a few inches  leaving  a gap at the gable end.
Mr B made a claim under  his buildings  insurance policy  for roof damage.  Admirals loss 
adjusters said the damage had been  caused by wear and tear of the mortar to the gable  end 
tiles and verge boards coming loose  over a period of time. It said the roof hadnt suffered 
any storm displacement; instead  the tiles had come  loose  due to the mortar failure  and poor 
fixing of the verge boards which had moved  gradually over a period  of time. Admiral said this 
wasnt covered by Mr Bs policy and declined his claim on this basis.
Mr B instructed a chartered surveyor, who Ill refer to as L in this decision,  to inspect the 
roof. L said the entire roof ridge has moved  between eight and ten inches and the right hand 
gable wall, whilst intact, was leaning over the garage around  five to six degrees.
L said this may have  been caused by increased  loading due to strong winds. And it thought 
the rucking was caused by a lack of horizontal and diagonal bracing  of the trusses which 
was not provided  at the time of construction. L felt the roof was at risk of collapse.  Because 
of this Mr B didnt think the damage could be classed as general wear and tear. He also told 
Admiral that, based on the content of Ls report,  he wasnt happy  with the inspection it had 
undertaken. He thought the loss adjuster hadnt  assessed the extent of the damage  properly 
or provided  adequate information about it. 
Mr B told Admiral  he thought Ls report showed that his roof had been  damaged  by adverse 
weather, which  meant it should be covered by his policy.  But Admiral couldnt  see any 
evidence of a storm occurring at around  the time Mr B reported  the damage  reported. So, it 
declined to settle Mr Bs claim  on the basis of storm damage. It maintained  its view that the 
roof had been damaged  due to poor workmanship due to the roof truss failure, which  had 
been caused by a lack of lateral  restraint.  And it said this was excluded  under Mr Bs policy.
Mr B didnt accept the reasons Admiral  declined to cover his claim and complained. But he 
didnt feel able to wait for Admiral to resolve  his complaint before going ahead  with the 
repairs to his roof. This was because he thought it was at risk of further movement  and 
collapse. He referred  his complaint to our service where our investigator looked at what had 
happened but she didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.  She didnt think  the roof had been 
damaged by a storm. Instead, she thought Admiral had shown it was a result of gradual 
damage. But Mr B disagreed and asked  for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN01096412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was roof damage to Mr Bs property and its agreed that he 
notified Admiral promptly  on becoming aware  of the damage. However, theres a 
disagreement between  Mr B and Admiral  about  the cause of the damage and the correct 
outcome of this claim. The crux of this complaint is whether Admiral acted reasonably  in 
declining this claim. And Ill explain  why I think it has.
Mr Bs policy  provides cover for damage caused  by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. As our investigator 
explained to Mr B, in order for a claim to be successful a policy holder would have to show  
that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils  listed in the policy.
Admiral considered whether or not a storm had caused the damage.  I think  that this was 
reasonable because Mr B told it he thought  the roof damage had been  caused  by adverse 
weather  although he wasnt  able to identify when the damage had occurred because the 
affected parts of the roof werent visible from the ground or from the parts  of his house that 
he regularly accessed.  So, the damage was only discovered by Mr B in July 2018  after it 
was drawn to his attention by a contractor undertaking maintenance work on his behalf.  
Mr Bs policy  defines a storm as a specific identified storm including  strong winds  in excess  
of 47 knots (54 mph)  that may include  heavy  rain, snow or sleet . The policy goes  on to 
explain that pre-existing  damage, wear and tear and gradual damage caused by normal  
weather, wind and rain is not covered. 
So, for Admiral to cover this claim Mr B has to show that there was an identifiable  storm 
around the time of the damage.  And he must then show that the storm alone was the cause 
of the damage. 
I understand that L thought the roof damage had been possibly caused  by an increased  
loading on the roof due to strong winds, which resulted in the trusses racking significantly. 
But when Admiral  checked the weather records for Mr Bs locality at around the date he 
noticed the damage to his roof it found no evidence  that storm force winds  were  prevalent at 
that time.  So, theres nothing to show that a storm occurred around  the time of the damage.   
Mr B doesnt  know when the damage  occurred and, while Admiral consulted  weather 
recorded at around  the time he reported  the damage, he says he didnt tell it there had been 
a storm at around that time. He thinks Admiral should have taken historical weather 
conditions into account when assessing  his claim.  But I wouldnt  expect an insurer  to 
undertake an open  ended weather search  in circumstances where a policyholder isnt able to 
say when the damage took place, unless the damage was obviously storm-related. So, I 
think it was fair for Admiral to conclude that the cause of this damage  was not storm related 
based on the weather records it accessed.  And also from the reports that have  been  written 
about Mr Bs roof.
As Ive mentioned  Mr Bs policy covers damage caused by certain  events. Wear and tear, or 
damage that happens gradually, arent one of those events. Theyre  specifically excluded,  
which is in common with most home insurance policies. This is because insurance  is 
Ref: DRN01096413intended to cover the unforeseen, and something  wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt 
unforeseen. 
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim on the basis of wear  and tear it has to show that this is 
how the damage happened. In this case  Admiral is able to rely on the loss adjuster and Ls 
opinion that the damage  was caused gradually. I can see Mr B isnt happy that Admiral  has 
relied on the loss adjusters report but as our investigator explained  C is a recognised  
organisation who regularly assesses property  damage on behalf of insurers. So, its isnt 
unreasonable for Admiral to use Cs expertise in assessing a claim for damage. I appreciate  
that the report Mr B obtained from L went into more detail. But that doesnt  discredit  Cs 
opinion or mean that its findings  were  wrong.  And it doesnt mean C had insufficient 
information to advise Admiral of the most likely  cause of the roof damage.
Ive carefully studied the reports from C and L. And I think they both indicate that the 
problem is due to the lack of lateral  roof supports. The loss adjuster says, the weathered  
condition of the roof covering and the accumulation of moss in the gaps between the tiles 
indicate long standing progressive movement that has occurred over a period of time. The 
lack of difference in the weathering to the concrete tile joints  that have pulled apart  
demonstrates that any movement  hasnt  been recent; otherwise there  wouldve been  a 
colour difference in areas that hadnt been  previously exposed. This all persuades me that 
the significant movement Mr B reported happened  over a period of time.  
I think the most likely  cause of the roof damage  was the roof trusses lacking  lateral restraint 
to the gable wall. This is consistent with an early  truss construction  roof of the type seen 
when Mr Bs house was built and is a factor we have seen in similar cases at this service.  
And Im satisfied that a lack of support  resulted in the gable  wall stability being  affected over 
time. I think this ultimately caused the movement  thats been  observed by Mr B. And I dont 
think Admiral made an error  in referring  to this as an inherent design or workmanship fault 
that only came to light in July 2018.  As the roof damage is most likely due to poor design  
and workmanship and something thats happened gradually it isnt covered under the terms 
and conditions of Mr Bs insurance  policy. 
I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed  with my decision. Hes already repaired his roof 
and has incurred significant cost and stress in doing  so. But, for the reasons  outlined, Im 
satisfied that Admiral acted fairly in determining the cause of the roof damage and in 
declining this claim. So, I cant ask it to reimburse  Mr B for the cost of the roof repair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0109641