K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 with a 
credit card. Miss E says HFC Bank  Limited  (HFC) miss-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt miss-sold because:
Neither Miss E nor HFC has been able to provide documentation  from the time of the 
sale. As these events occurred over 19 years ago thats  maybe not surprising.  But I 
think HFC made it clear  that Miss E didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  
Ive seen a sample application form which HFC says came from the year after the sale.  I 
think its possible that this would have been similar to the form that would have been 
used at the time of the sale.  To get the cover Miss E would have had to select it and she 
would have  had a choice about  doing that or not. There is nothing in writing  on the 
application form that should  have  suggested to Miss E that she would get the credit  if 
she took out the cover. So it seems  most  likely that Miss E did choose PPI and did so 
knowing she had a choice to do so. But even without  this document, considering how 
long ago the sale was in this case,  I havent  seen sufficient evidence to be able to 
uphold the complaint  on these points. 
HFC didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss E so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have  to make  sure Miss E got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information HFC gave  Miss E about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been   such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But she chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen 
of her circumstances at the time it seems  she was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover.  Miss E 
told us she had some good  sick pay and some  other means at the time. But when we 
asked for some  clarification about these, Miss E did not provide any. This policy  could 
have paid out for up to 12 months  in the event that Miss E was too unwell to work and 
would have  paid out in addition to whatever sick pay she could have  relied on, and would 
have reduced her reliance  on any other means she may have had available  to her. And it 
would have  provided some financial protection to Miss E in the event she lost her job. So I 
think the policy would have been  useful  to her if something went wrong. So I dont think  
better information about  the PPI and its cost would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means HFC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss E.
Ref: DRN03419552But, if it hasnt already done so, HFC will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Miss E because: 
When the policy was sold, HFC expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Miss E about that. 
Because HFC didnt  tell Miss E, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HFC has basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  done  so already, HFC has to pay back to Miss E any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. HFC should  also pay back  to Miss E any 
extra interest Miss E paid because of that.
HFC should  re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Miss E the difference between  
what Miss E owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HFC should also pay Miss E 8%* simple 
interest if Miss E paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss E can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt miss-sold  so HFC Bank  Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss E.
But HFC Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Miss E any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already made this payment  I make no 
further award against HFC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0341955