K820x#14complaint 
Mr C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance policy (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out to protect a Kwikfit card in 
1997.
The PPI was sold to Mr C by a third party but FICL  have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint  Ill explain why.
Mr C says he didnt know he had the PPI and so it was done automatically  without  him 
realising. He adds  that he just signed the form when it was completed in the meeting. Ive 
seen a copy of Mr Cs signed credit agreement  which is dated 1 February 1997. And I note 
the section to select PPI has been  left blank. So because of that I dont think  PPI was added 
at that point, and this is consistent with Mr Cs recollections. 
Both FICL and Mr C say PPI was added on 23 May 1997  thats  clearly  some time after the 
card was taken out in store in February  1997.  FICL  says the PPI was sold over the phone. I 
think this more likely to be the case, given  it was added some  time after the card was taken 
out. 
FICL dont  have much information  like call scripts   about how this sale wouldve  taken 
place. Thats neither surprising nor unusual,  given the sale took place over 20 years ago. 
But FICL had to make it clear the PPI was optional and that Mr C agreed to take it. As 
neither partys been able to give us much  detail about how the PPI was sold to Mr C, Ive not 
seen enough to say its likely FICL did do things  to make Mr C think the PPI wasnt  optional. 
Or that he didnt agree to take it at the time.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to provide clear  information about  it.  
Mr C says nothing was explained to him about  PPI nor was he given any paperwork related 
to it. I accept its possible the information  FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But its unlikely Mr C wouldve been affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover. And based on what I know about  his circumstances, it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him 
buying it.
Ref: DRN05891852In saying the above, Ive noted what Mr C has said about having  twelve months full sick pay. 
But its quite  unusual to get such a high level of sick pay, so because of that our adjudicator  
asked Mr C for evidence of this. Mr C isnt able to provide any  and this is understandable 
given the length of time since the sale took place. But without any evidence, I cant find that 
its most  likely he did. 
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments,  including what hes said about  his savings. But 
given the amount he says he held at that time,  I still think  he wouldve found  the PPI useful. 
Mr C has said that his family and friends  wouldve have helped  him  but help from others 
cant be guaranteed.  So these points  dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0589185