K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Both the mortgage  and PPI were in Mr and Mrs Gs joint names. The PPI policy  covered  
them for accident, sickness and unemployment. The monthly  benefit  would have  covered  
their mortgage payments  and an additional £100 per month. It was split equally between 
Mr and Mrs G. So if either  of them  had made  a successful claim on the policy,  it would have 
paid 50% of the monthly benefit.  And it would  have done this for up to 12 months per 
successful claim.
After Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint  to us, Nationwide agreed  to make an offer of 
redress in line with our guidelines in respect of Mr Gs share of the accident and sickness 
element of the policy. This is because Mr G had a separate  income  protection  policy  in his 
sole name.
Our adjudicator thought Nationwides offer was fair. And he didnt think Nationwide had mis-
sold the remaining  parts of the PPI policy. So he didnt recommend that the complaint should  
be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs signed mortgage application form. It included  a 
section on PPI. There were  equally prominent Yes and No boxes next to the question 
Do you want PaymentGuard? PaymentGuard was a form of PPI, and Mr and Mrs G 
ticked the Yes box to indicate  that they wished to take the cover.  They also completed  
a separate application form for the PPI. Taking  everything into account,  Im satisfied that 
Nationwide made  Mr and Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional,  and that they chose to 
take it.
I havent seen  clear  evidence that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont  think it recommended  the PPI to them. This means it 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for them. But it still had a responsibility to 
give Mr and Mrs G clear  enough information to enable them  to decide if the PPI was right 
for them.
Ref: DRN09464282As noted above, Nationwide has offered to refund  the PPI premiums  as far as they relate 
to accident and sickness cover for Mr G. But Im not convinced  that better information 
about the policy would have made Mr and Mrs G change  their minds about taking out the 
remainder of the cover.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs G have told us that Mrs G was in a stable job and 
would have been entitled to six months  full pay if shed  been off sick. But the policy 
would have paid out for up to 12 months  per successful claim. And it would have paid out 
in addition to any sick pay Mrs G received from her employer. It would also have 
provided the same benefit  if either  Mr or Mrs G had lost their job. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G have told us that they also had life and critical illness  
cover. But those  provided different types of insurance from PPI and they would  have 
paid out in different  circumstances.
The cost of the policy was shown in the mortgage offer. So I think  Mr and Mrs G would 
have understood how much  theyd need to pay for it. 
Its possible  Nationwide  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover  (for 
example, unusual  employment arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from 
what theyve told us about  their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs G 
would have been affected by any of these.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Gs comments, including  what theyve said about  not 
having been told they had the option  of looking elsewhere for an alternative policy. But 
Nationwide wasnt obliged to tell Mr and Mrs G about products  that might  have been 
available from other providers. So this doesnt change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0946428