K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them life 
insurance with their mortgage.
In making their complaint, Mr and Mrs M are represented by a claims management 
company.
background
In 2010, Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage  with Halifax. This was on a repayment basis and 
had a term of 25 years.
Halifax also recommended that they should  start a protection plan that gave them  
decreasing term assurance for the amount  they were borrowing. 
In 2018, Mr and Mrs Ms representative  complained on their behalf that the life insurance 
had been mis-sold. They said it hadnt  been made clear that it wasnt  compulsory for them to 
have this so their mortgage would be approved. Mr and Mrs M had significant savings at the 
time, which meant they could meet their mortgage repayments if they needed to.
Halifax thought  the policy had been  suitable for Mr and Mrs M and that they had a need for 
it. It said it was never compulsory or a condition of a Halifax  mortgage to have to take out 
such cover.  Halifax said the terms and conditions and benefits of the policy had been 
explained to Mr and Mrs M when it was sold, and they were given the rights  to cancel it if 
they didnt want  to go ahead with it.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  She 
thought that the information  Mr and Mrs M were  given  highlighted  that taking out the policy  
was optional, and set out the costs and benefits clearly. She said the cover  it gave matched 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage and so didnt think it had been mis-sold to them.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  said that they didnt accept  the adjudicators findings and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time they took out this particular policy,  I 
dont think it was an unreasonable recommendation for them to look to protect  their joint 
commitment of the mortgage  they were applying  for. The cover matched the amount of their 
mortgage and the product fee they paid, and was over the same term. It was on a 
decreasing basis  so the cover it gave them would gradually go down over the term in line 
with the capital they would owe on their mortgage.
Ive seen copies  of the letters Mr and Mrs M were sent when their policy started.  These 
confirm the type of cover it gave them and the costs, and also included  their right to change 
their mind  and details of how they could cancel the policy at any time.
Ref: DRN00862752Ive also read through Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  offer and this doesnt show  that it was 
conditional on them taking  out this policy. In relation  to insurance it says:  You do not need to 
buy any insurance through  Halifax. The only type of insurance  it lists as being a condition of 
the mortgage was buildings insurance, but again this didnt have to be taken through Halifax.
I do appreciate that Mrs M has said that they had a significant amount in savings at the time, 
which they couldve used  to meet their mortgage  repayments if it was necessary. However, I 
dont think this in itself means that taking out the joint life insurance wasnt  a suitable  
recommendation for them,  when it wouldve meant  that they wouldve been in a position to 
repay the mortgage they owed in the event that either of them passed away.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think this decreasing term assurance policy was mis-
sold to Mr and Mrs M.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0086275