K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited carried  out an unauthorised credit 
search.
background
In July 2018, Mr H noticed  that his credit report showed that Admiral had carried  out a credit 
search. He says that he hadnt asked Admiral  for a quote for over two years.  Mr H says that 
Admirals search was unauthorised. He wants Admiral to remove  the credit search from his 
credit file, apologies and pay him compensation. 
Admiral said that  a comparison site may have used Mr Hs details to generate a quote 
automatically. As it had no active quotes,  it couldnt check exactly  what  had happened. 
Admiral said it had asked  for the search  to be removed from Mr Hs credit file. 
Our investigator said that he couldnt  see that Admirals search had led to other prospective 
lenders refusing Mr H credit. He thought  that it was plausible that the search followed an 
automatic request for a quote from a comparison web site. The investigator said that 
Admirals action to remove the search  was fair. He didnt ask Admiral to do any more  than it 
had already done. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view. He said that a large number of credit  searches 
are looked  on unfavourably by prospective  lenders,  so this may cause him difficulty  if he 
wants to obtain  credit in the future. Mr H says Admiral shouldnt hold his data without his 
permission. He says that he didnt ask for a quote and Admiral shouldnt  have  prepared  one. 
Mr H provided  an e-mail from a price  comparison  web site in which  it said that it doesnt  
carry out credit searches.
As there was no agreement between the parties, Mr Hs complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role isnt to decide if a business has breached  data protection laws. Mr H can contact 
the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) if hes concerned about the way Admiral  has 
handled his personal information.  The link to their website is: https://ico.org.uk/make-a-
complaint/.
Its not entirely clear  what led to Admiral carrying out a credit search in July 2018 but its 
common ground that Mr H hadnt  asked for a quote. In its final response to Mr H, Admiral 
apologised for carrying  out the search when  Mr H hadnt asked for a quote. It said price 
comparison websites sometimes send it information  so that it can prepare a quote on the 
anniversary of a previous  quote. That sounds like a plausible explanation for what  mightve  
happened here. In any event,  Admiral has acknowledged that Mr H didnt ask for a quote 
and its asked for the search to be removed  from his credit file. I think thats  fair. 
Ref: DRN02654152Ive seen no evidence  that Admirals search led to Mr H being  refused credit by prospective 
lenders. Its unlikely that it would do so, as its not a full credit  search.  Ive looked at the 
credit report  Mr H has provided. There are defaults  and arrears  on it. So, it would  be very 
difficult to establish  that Admirals search was the reason for any refusal of credit.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but, considering everything, I think  that the steps Admiral has 
already taken are fair and I dont  propose  to ask it to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0265415