K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Paymentshield Ltd didnt cancel his payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy when he asked  it to.
background
Mr H took out a PPI policy with Paymentshield  in October 1999. His mortgage lender has 
told us that the policy  was free of charge until November 2000. If Mr H had made a 
successful claim  on the policy, it would have paid his monthly  mortgage  payments if he was 
off sick, or if he lost his job. Paymentshield says Mr H cancelled  the policy in March  2013.
Mr H has told us he didnt know he had insurance  for his mortgage payments. But he was 
advised by his mortgage lender to claim on it in 2018. However, when  he tried to do so, he 
was told that the policy  had been cancelled in 2013. He doesnt  know how he could have 
cancelled it then, given  that he didnt know he had it. 
Mr H has explained that he made  an unsuccessful unemployment claim on the policy  in 
2000. And he says that after that, he cancelled it. He says he hasnt been in full-time 
employment since, so he wouldnt  have been able to claim on it. And hes explained that he 
wouldnt knowingly have continued to pay for a PPI policy that he couldnt  benefit from. Hes 
particularly upset that he believes that in not upholding his complaint, Paymentshield is 
implying that hes lying about what happened.
Paymentshield has provided a recording of a phone call with Mr H, which it says took place 
in March 2013. Mr H asked it to cancel the policy during that call. Mr H says the recording 
cant be from 2013, as Paymentshield claims,  but must be from 2000. And he believes that 
when he cancelled the PPI, the premium was added to his mortgage payment and continued 
to be taken. Hed like Paymentshield to refund the premium from 2000 onwards.
Paymentshield accepts  that Mr H tried to claim under the policy in 2000.  But it doesnt 
accept that he cancelled it at that stage. It says it continued to send Mr H correspondence  
about the policy periodically until 2013,  when he phoned to cancel it. And it says it sent him a 
letter that same day, confirming  that cancellation.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  In summary, he said 
that the phone call in which Mr H cancelled the policy appeared to have  been  made  in 2013. 
And without  evidence that there  was any phone  call or correspondence to Paymentshield in 
2000 instructing  it to cancel the policy, it was hard for him to uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the recording of the phone call in which  Mr H asked Paymentshield to cancel 
the policy. Im satisfied that the call took place  in March 2013, as Paymentshield  says it did. 
I note that Mr H refers during the call to the fact that he thought hed stopped  the policy in 
2000, after his claim under  the policy was declined. And he refers  to having found  out that 
the policy was still active after thirteen years when he received a letter.
Ref: DRN06466052Mr H says during the course of the phone call that he stopped his direct  debit for the PPI in 
2000. But his mortgage lender has told us that the policy was free until November 2000.  So 
Mr H wouldnt  have paid anything for it up until then. And its told us that when the free 
period ended, it collected the PPI premium with Mr Hs monthly mortgage payment, as a 
single payment.
I think its clear  from the evidence provided that Mr H cancelled the policy  when he phoned  
Paymentshield in 2013. And I think its equally clear that when he phoned Paymentshield in 
2013, he genuinely believed that hed cancelled the policy  in 2000 after his claim was 
declined.
It appears that Mr Hs lender wasnt told about the cancellation of the policy  in 2013.  So it 
carried on collecting the monthly premiums with Mr Hs monthly mortgage payments and 
passing them on to Paymentshield. Once it learned  that Mr H had asked Paymentshield  to 
cancel the policy in March 2013, it refunded  the premiums hed paid from that point onwards. 
But to find that Paymentshield should refund  the premiums that Mr H paid from November 
2000 (when he started paying for the policy)  to March 2013,  Id need stronger evidence  that 
he asked it to cancel  the policy in 2000.  I can see that Paymentshields account notes show 
that Mr H phoned  it a couple of times  in November 2000 for help with making a claim on the 
policy. But theres  no record of him having  asked to cancel it before 2013. And his mortgage 
lender says that the first that it knew of Mr H having asked to cancel the policy was in 2018,  
when it was contacted by Paymentshield after Mr H raised his complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr H has given us his honest recollection. And I can understand his 
frustration. Im sorry to disappoint him. But based on the evidence I have, I cant fairly 
require Paymentshield  to refund the premiums  he paid for the PPI policy  before it was 
cancelled in 2013.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0646605