K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the unsatisfactory condition of a car he is financing through 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd (BMF). He wants them to pay for repairs  to bring  it to an 
acceptable standard. 
background
Mr B took receipt of a used car in November 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMF. At the point of supply the car had completed about 60,000 
miles and was about eight years  old.
But only a month  later, when Mr B took the car for a service, he discovered  that it needed 
significant work. The garage identified:
front pipe to catalytic converter blowing  badly  
rattle on exhaust  elbow 
roll bar bushes worn 
both sub-frames heavily corroded
brake disc shield rotten and hanging  off
track  rod end hanging off
off side front track  rod hanging  off
near side front track rod badly  worn
all wheels need aligning
all shock absorbers require replacement
new under tray clips required
J pipe gasket leak
Mr B wanted  BMF to pay for these repairs but they refused as they said the cars sales  price 
had been reduced because it had a short MOT and also because a major  service was due. 
They said many of the items identified were wear and tear issues  but they did arrange for an 
independent engineer to provide  his opinion.
The independent engineer noted that the exhaust was corroded and would need  replacing 
and he also note that there was play in the track  rod ends  which  he thought  was nearing the 
point at which the car would fail its MOT. But overall he was of the opinion that the car was 
likely to have met the minimum  MOT standards when it was provided to Mr B and that it was 
therefore of satisfactory  quality.
But Mr B disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service  where  our adjudicator  
provided an opinion.  She appreciated that the independent inspector had suggested the car 
was in a satisfactory  condition but she noted  that the faults Mr B complained  of were present 
only a month  after he took receipt of the car and she thought  it was likely they were therefore 
there from the beginning. She didnt  think it was fair for Mr B to have  been  provided with a 
car with these faults, especially  as she noted  some  of the problems were safety related. So 
she thought BMF should repair:
the heavily  corroded sub-frames
the brake disc shield that was rotten and hanging off
the shock absorbers
J-pipe gasket leak
Ref: DRN02034122She thought  they should also refund the costs Mr B had incurred having the track rod ends 
repaired and that, as the wheel alignment was required  after the track rod ends were 
repaired, BMF should refund this cost too. She noted that Mr Bs initial service reported  the 
need for the car to go back to the garage to have filters replaced  so she thought  BMF should 
refund these costs  as well as, she said, these items  should have  been  replaced at the 
beginning when  the dealership simply topped  up the oil. But she didnt think the other  repairs  
were BMFs responsibility as she thought they were wear and tear issues.
BMF didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. They  didnt think any of the issues identified 
had been reported to be safety related and they explained  that the car was roadworthy when 
supplied and some  wear and tear should  be expected. They  explained that Mr B had 
accepted a reduction in the cars sales price because a major service  was due and they 
thought the mileage the car had done  before the issues were identified should  have some 
bearing on the problems identified. So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMF so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age, mileage  and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. The car here was 
around eight years  old and had travelled  60,000 miles. So I wouldnt expect it to be in 
pristine condition  and there may be some  faults  but I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect those faults to be significant ones that, for instance, may affect vehicle  safety or incur  
significant costs  to put right. 
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMF to put this right.  
Ref: DRN02034123But BMFs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
It seems  clear  that Mr Bs car was discounted  as a result of the imminent  major service  that 
was due. But I think its fair to say Mr B wasnt accepting a substandard product when he 
agreed to accept the car on this basis. He was agreeing to pay for a major service; not 
agreeing to accept  a car with faults.
I think, as so little time had passed, its most  likely that the faults the garage  identified within 
the first few weeks were  present when  the car was supplied to Mr B. I agree that some  of the 
faults could fairly be attributed to fair wear  and tear and I understand that the independent 
inspector has suggested  the car was of roadworthy  condition. But I dont think  a reasonable 
person would expect  the following issues on a car of this age and mileage:
heavily corroded  sub-frames
a rotten  brake disc shield that was hanging off
a need to replace all shock absorbers
J-pipe gasket leak replacement
And I dont  think a reasonable person would expect to have to change the track rod ends  so 
soon either.  The wheel  alignment  is, as I understand it, a necessary action after the track rod 
ends are replaced so I think  it follows this is an associated cost and it would be fair for these 
charges, which  have already been incurred,  to be refunded to Mr B.
I also agree  that Mr B couldve reasonable expected  the filters to have been changed before 
he received the car so I think  this cost should  be refunded  as well.
The other issues Ive not mentioned here are, I think, fairly  associated with wear  and tear. 
They relate to corrosion on the exhaust and a loose  tray and I think these are examples of 
the issues a reasonable person may expect on a car of this age and mileage.
So I think it would be fair and reasonable for BMF to repair  Mr Bs car and provide a refund 
for the costs hes already incurred and that Ive mentioned  above.  Its also clear that Mr B 
has been inconvenienced by these  issues and I think, in the circumstances, BMF should pay 
him £150 to compensate him for the problems hes experienced.
Ref: DRN02034124my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
arrange and pay for repairs  to the sub frame, brake disc shield, shock absorbers and 
J-pipe gasket to resolve issues  advised  by the third party  garage  in their report of 12 
January 2019
refund  the charges Mr B has incurred having  the track rod ends replaced and the 
wheels re-aligned. As detailed in the invoice supplied by Mr B and dated  14 May 
2019
refund  the charges Mr B incurred for oil and fuel filters and associated  costs. As 
detailed in the invoice dated  30 March 2019
pay Mr B £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of these issues
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0203412