K820x#14complaint
Mrs B and Mr Y complain  about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) stopping a 
cheque theyd written. It caused them considerable embarrassment and distress.
background
In January 2019 Mrs B and Mr Y received  an email  from the recipient of a cheque theyd 
written for £5750.  The cheque had been  rejected  by their bank. It was hugely  embarrassing 
as theyd more  than enough  funds  to cover the purchase.
When Mrs B and Mr Y contacted NatWest they were told the cheque  had been written from 
a chequebook  which had been  cancelled in 2016.  But NatWest hadnt  told them their 
chequebook was being cancelled. And it couldve used its text messaging  service to let them  
know there was a problem with the cheque.
Mrs B and Mr Y were  unhappy NatWest paid £20 into their account to settle the complaint. 
That wasnt  enough  for the stress caused by the bank. They would like £200 compensation 
and a proper apology for the embarrassment and distress.
NatWest said the cheque had been written from a book Mrs B and Mr Y had reported as 
being lost or not received  in 2016.  So any cheques from that book would be automatically 
rejected. NatWest agreed it shouldve contacted Mrs B and Mr Y sooner to let them know  the 
chequebook had been cancelled. And it paid £20 into their account to cover their time and 
inconvenience.
Mrs B and Mr Y werent satisfied with NatWests response. So they contacted  our service 
and our adjudicator  looked into the matter.  He could see how much distressed had been  
caused. And how Mrs B and Mr Y thought £20 compensation  was a poor response. But he 
felt NatWest had followed  its procedures properly by contacting the cheque recipient first. 
And although Mrs B and Mr Y had been understandably  embarrassed he felt the banks offer 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs B and Mr Y didnt agree. Theyd been  caused  considerable  distress. But the banks  
incompetence had gone  largely unpunished. So theyve  asked  for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting this mustve been  for Mrs B and Mr Y. Theyd written a 
cheque for a large sum of money. And they were  very embarrassed when the recipient 
contacted them to say it hadnt been  honoured. 
So Ive looked  at NatWests procedures to see if the bank did anything  wrong.  It seems  
Mrs B and Mr Y had reported  the chequebook  as missing a few years ago. So NatWest 
automatically put a block on any cheques written  from the missing  book. And I think  that was 
the right response. If anyone else had found  the cheques and tried to use them  they 
wouldve failed. 
Ref: DRN06713122The cheques were  now effectively cancelled. And when Mrs B and Mr Y inadvertently used 
one of the cancelled cheques NatWest  said the standard practise would  be to contact the 
recipient to say it couldnt be honoured. The recipient contacted Mrs B and Mrs Y before the 
bank could also update them about the situation.
I cant say NatWest has done anything wrong here.  I do appreciate how embarrassing  this 
mustve been for Mrs B and Mr Y. But theyd  reported the cheques as missing.  And although 
it was a few years ago I cant really  hold NatWest responsible for stopping  the payment. It 
followed its normal practise  for lost chequebooks. NatWest wouldve expected  Mrs B and 
Mrs Y to know  the cheques couldnt be used. So its first priority was to inform the recipient 
that it couldnt release the funds.
NatWest did credit Mrs B and Mrs Y with £20 for their time and inconvenience. And I know  
they dont think  its enough in the circumstances. But its not our role to punish banks. We 
award what we think is fair and reasonable.
Based on what Ive seen  NatWest has followed  its procedures correctly. When the 
chequebook was reported as missing  by Mrs B and Mr Y in 2016 it cancelled  any cheques 
associated with that book. And when Mrs B and Mr Y used a cheque from that chequebook 
the bank stopped the payment as itd been reported  missing. It did so to prevent any 
fraudulent activity against their account. As Mrs B and Mr Y had already reported  the cheque  
as missing NatWest contacted the recipient first to say it wouldnt complete the payment. 
I do appreciate how embarrassing this mustve been for Mrs B and Mrs Y. They wrote a 
cheque in good faith and didnt expect to hear their payment hadnt been accepted. And I 
can see they were also unhappy  different sections of NatWest didnt seem to know  what the 
other was doing.  And it assumed they had accepted  the settlement when they hadnt.
I realise Mrs B and Mr Y feel they should  have more compensation than the £20 NatWest  
has already paid. But, as Ive already said, its not the role of this service to punish banks. 
Based on what Ive seen  I think NatWest  followed  its procedures  correctly. And it acted to 
protect Mrs B and Mr Y when a cheque theyd  asked to be stopped was presented  against 
their account. So I wont  be asking it to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671312