K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about the sale of a single premium  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy which  she bought  in 2003 in connection with a personal loan arranged by Nationwide 
Building Society. Mrs K complains the policy was mis-sold. 
background
Mrs K complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be 
upheld. Mrs K didnt agree with our adjudicators view and asked  for the matter  to be looked 
at again by an ombudsman.
Mrs K added that she didnt need  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. I know this will disappoint her so Ive set out 
my reasons  below.  
I first looked  at whether Nationwide made Mrs K aware the policy  was optional. She 
specifically complains she wasnt told this. She also said she was told it was necessary to 
take the PPI to get the loan. 
I dont know what exactly was said to her during the sale.  But Ive seen a copy  of the type of 
loan agreement Mrs K would have signed and it clearly refers  to Optional Credit  Insurance . 
Mrs K must have  signed  her loan agreement at some point to get the loan - so she must 
have seen it  and I think the paperwork more  likely  showed PPI as an optional  product. 
Mrs K also said she thought she had to take the PPI to get the loan but I have not seen any 
evidence of that as she has not told me exactly what was said to her. So I cant  support that 
part of her complaint.
Nationwide told us that in line with its practices at the time, this sale was non-advised. Mrs K 
says the sale was advised but I dont think its clear  whether Mrs K was given a 
recommendation to take the PPI. So Ill continue on the basis the sale was non-advised. For 
non-advised sales, Nationwide only had to give Mrs K enough clear information so she could 
make her own decision. So, I first looked at her circumstances  at the time of the sale to see 
what sort of cover  she might  have needed:  
Mrs K was eligible for the PPI cover so she could have benefitted  from a policy.
Mrs K told us she had six months salary saved.  
She also said she was entitled to at least six months sick pay from her employer. 
So I think she wouldve needed  cover  if she couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. And I think the benefit from the PPI would have given her some income in 
addition to and for longer than her sick pay to make the loan repayments. 
Ref: DRN00975152I then looked at the information that Nationwide gave  to Mrs K about the PPI to see if she 
could have made an informed decision. 
I dont know how, or if, the things  not covered by the policy  (the exclusions) were explained 
to Mrs K but I dont  think Mrs K wouldve been  affected by the main ones. So even  if shed 
been given detailed information about them, I dont think it would have changed her decision 
about buying the policy.
I have seen the loan agreement did set out the cost of the loan and the cost of the PPI 
policy, together with the total monthly  cost Mrs K had to pay. So the costs of this PPI were  
set out quite clearly.  I dont know what was said to her during the sale about costs,  but the 
loan agreement was signed by Mrs K. So I think she probably saw the cost of the policy and 
I dont think that any more detailed information  about the cost and benefit would have 
changed her mind about buying it.  
In summary,  I think Mrs K was aware the policy was optional. I also think that she still 
wouldve bought  the policy even if shed  been given more detailed  information. This means 
that I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0097515