K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt send an agreed amount of money  
back to another  account he held with a different  business.
background
Mr B made three transfers into his Nationwide account in June 2018 from an account he 
held with a different bank I will call F. Mr B accepts he made a mistake  and selected the 
wrong option which meant instead  of transferring £73,084, he transferred the equivalent 
amount in Euros. Nationwide  then exchanged the money from Euros  into Sterling which 
meant the amount transferred was £71,506.
Mr B says he spoke to F and Nationwide about  the problem and says Nationwide  said it 
could ask F to recall  the money which F agreed to do. Mr B then asked  Nationwide  to 
confirm it would return the exact  amount it received in Euros. Nationwide  replied and said 
We will return amount  in which we received. Mr B says it took that to mean the exact 
amount of Euros he sent (83,002) would be returned but says Nationwide returned 80,749 in 
Euros by sending back £71,506 then converting  to Euros.
Mr B says if hed been told that he was at risk of further losses  then he wouldnt have asked  
F to recall his money.  He says Nationwide should have explained this and as a result he has 
lost more than £1,500.  Mr B would like Nationwide to pay for the loss.
Nationwide initially said it hadnt made a mistake  and says it told Mr B it wouldnt be sending  
back to F more (money) due to the error that may have caused  losses. It also says it told Mr 
B that an intermediary bank may also charge. Nationwide says it doesnt receive Euros  and 
uses an agent bank  and sent back all the money it received namely £71,506.
Mr B says it must have  been Nationwides agent bank that converted the payment back  into 
Euros and says if hed known it wouldnt send back the exact  amount  of Euros then he 
wouldnt have instructed F to recall the money.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator accepted Mr 
B had made a mistake initially. But considered the e-mail exchange between the parties and 
thought Mr B was clear  in asking for the exact amount he sent in Euros to be returned. And 
Nationwide hadnt  explained the position  clearly enough. The Investigator  thought  that if 
Nationwide had been clearer then Mr B wouldnt have recalled the money as there was likely  
to be a further exchange rate loss. The investigator  recommended Nationwide pay for Mr Bs 
loss which  he thought was 2,253  Euros which he calculated  at about 1,986  in Sterling.
Mr B agreed with that view but Nationwide did not. Nationwide reconsidered its position and 
said Mr B had lost money (about £1,577) before it received the money  and that it wasnt  
responsible for that. It says it will cover the difference for the extra loss incurred when it sent 
the money back, which it says was £409.31.
I asked both sides for further information.  In summary I asked Nationwide  to explain how it 
calculated its offer and why it didnt make clear in its e-mail exchange that it couldnt do what  
Mr B wanted. I asked Mr B if he accepted  there was a loss by the time the money  had 
reached his Nationwide account  and if hed known there was likely to be a further loss, 
would he have left the money in his Nationwide account. I also asked if he was able to say 
what that further loss was.
Ref: DRN08195712Mr B doesnt  accept Nationwides offer.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and upheld this complaint in part and thought 
that Nationwide should pay the compensation its agreed to pay. 
I said there was no question here that Mr B made  a mistake in how he transferred the money 
into his Nationwide  account. I was satisfied that despite what  Mr B believed,  the transaction 
couldnt be simply undone and the exact amount returned to him. I said that as there was a 
currency exchange before  Nationwide received the money and Nationwide couldnt 
reasonably be expected  to have sent back  to F more money  than it received or be 
responsible for the costs of its agent  bank in making  the currency  transaction.
I was satisfied the problem here was the e-mail  exchange between the parties.  I could see 
that what Mr B wanted was all of the Euros sent back to his account.  But I thought 
Nationwides response wasnt as clear and precise  as it should have been. I thought 
Nationwide should  have set out in clearer terms that it would send back the money it 
received in Sterling  namely £71,506. And that amount  would have to be exchanged into 
Euros which would mean that Mr B may not receive the full amount of Euros back. I said it 
may have  been  the case, dependant  on exchange  rates, that Mr B may have received more 
that he sent but I didnt think he was told about any potential changes.
I could see that Mr B told us on two occasions that if Nationwide had been clearer and told 
him that there would have to be another  currency  exchange, then he would have left his 
money in the Nationwide account and not instructed F to recall  the money. So I had to 
consider what if any loss Mr B suffered as a result of not receiving  that clearer information 
from Nationwide.
I was satisfied that Mr B received £71,506  in his Nationwide account. So there  was any loss 
before that and so I couldnt  hold Nationwide responsible for that. I thought the loss that 
Nationwide should  take responsibility  was for what  took place after that. 
I calculated that loss as follows.  Mr B wanted  to transfer £73,084  but due to his mistake the 
amount that was received  in his Nationwide account  was £71,506. So I was satisfied there  
was already a loss of £1,578. Mr B received back 2,253 Euros less than he sent which  the 
investigator has calculated as £1,986. So I thought  Nationwide should pay for the additional 
loss which  is £1,986 (total loss)  less £1578(loss  incurred due to Mr Bs mistake)  which  is 
£408. I could see that Nationwide offered £409.31  which I thought was also in line with my 
calculation and as it offered  that amount, I said I will use their higher calculation.
I appreciated that Mr B was likely to be disappointed  by my provisional  view. But in the 
circumstances I said I couldnt  fairly  order Nationwide to pay for the exchange  rate loss that I 
thought was as a result of Mr Bs mistake and something it had no control over or any 
involvement in. 
Nationwide and Mr B have both said they have nothing further to add to my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN08195713my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
decision that I reached in my provisional  decision for the same  reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr B compensation of £409.31.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B name here]  
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0819571