K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that MYJAR  Limited  lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Miss H was given four loans by MYJAR between December 2015  and November  2016.  The 
first three loans were  successfully repaid by Miss H but a balance remains outstanding on 
the final loan.  Three of the loans  were repayable in monthly instalments as shown in the 
table below;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Term 
(Months)
1 16/12/2015 12/02/2016 £ 125 3
2 08/05/2016 27/05/2016 £ 100 1
3 27/05/2016 28/11/2016 £ 650 6
4 28/11/2016 - £ 550 6
Miss Hs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think MYJAR 
had been wrong  to give the first three loans to Miss H. But he didnt think  the final loan 
should have been agreed. So he asked MYJAR to put things right by removing any interest 
and charges that had been added to the final loan. That reduced  the amount that was 
outstanding.
MYJAR accepted our adjudicators assessment and agreed to put things right as proposed.  
But Miss H didnt accept  the assessment  she thought  that loan 3 shouldnt  have been 
agreed either. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss H could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN07763062the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Before lending to Miss H MYJAR  gathered  some  information from her about her income,  
employment and living arrangements.  It then supplemented this with information it gathered 
about her expenditure from national statistical data in order  to estimate  how much Miss H 
could afford  to borrow.
The first two loans that Miss H took were  relatively modest compared to her income,  and the 
disposable income that MYJAR calculated. So given Miss Hs repayment amounts, what was 
apparent about  her circumstances at the time,  and her history with the lender, I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her for the amount of information  that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss H provided or the information MYJAR 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
she was saying.  So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give these two loans to Miss H.
On the same  day that she repaid  her second loan, Miss H asked  to borrow  again.  The 
amount that she asked  to borrow was much larger than before. But Miss H agreed to repay 
that loan in six monthly instalments. So the amount she needed  to repay each month was 
much smaller than if shed  taken  a normal payday  loan. But of course she was committing to 
making those repayments over a far longer  period.
Ref: DRN07763063I think the increase  in the size of the loan, and that Miss H took a new loan so soon after 
repaying her previous  loan, should have  caused some concerns to MYJAR. But, on balance, 
I dont think those concerns should  have reached  the point where further, more detailed,  
checks were proportionate. So as before I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for 
MYJAR to ask Miss H for the amount of information  that would be needed to show this loan 
was unsustainable.  I dont think MYJAR  was wrong  to give this loan to Miss H either.
Miss H repaid her third loan as planned.  But on the same day she asked to borrow again. By 
this time she had been borrowing from MYJAR  with very little break for almost  a year. And 
she wasnt showing any signs of getting  to grips with her borrowing. So I think  this should 
have prompted  MYJAR  to do some additional  checks, such  as asking Miss H for more 
information about her other short term borrowing commitments.
Had it done so MYJAR  would have discovered  that Miss H was borrowing from a number of 
other lenders and was committed to repaying a large proportion  of her normal income to 
those lenders. I think it would have  been  clear to MYJAR that Miss H was facing significant 
problems managing her money, and that it was unlikely that she would be able to repay any 
new borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I dont think MYJAR should have given this loan 
to Miss H, and needs to put things right.
putting things right
I dont think MYJAR should have  lent to Miss H on 28 November 2016  (loan  4). Miss H 
hasnt yet repaid  all of that loan and still owes MYJAR some of the principal amount that she 
borrowed. I think it right that Miss H repays  to MYJAR the principal  that she borrowed.
MYJAR should recalculate  the outstanding balance on loan 4 by removing all interest and 
charges from the loan,  and treating any payments that Miss H has made as being  against 
the principal that she borrowed.
If, as seems  likely, an outstanding balance remains MYJAR should seek to agree an 
affordable repayment  arrangement with Miss H, taking  into account her current agreed token 
repayments and remembering the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those 
discussions.
Once the principal  Miss H borrowed on this loan has been  repaid MYJAR should remove  
any adverse entries  relating to the loan from her credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Hs complaint and direct  MYJAR Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Ref: DRN07763064Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0776306