K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC gave him incorrect information which  led to him 
entering into a repayment  plan.  This affected  his credit rating and stopped him getting a 
mortgage. Barclays then altered  the credit file to show a default  rather  than a repayment  
plan.
Mr R would like the default  removed form his credit file. He also wants more compensation 
for the losses that he has incurred as he doesnt think  Barclays has offered him enough. 
background
Mr R has a credit card with Barclays. Due to large  purchases on this card,  he contacted  
Barclays to see if he could negotiate  a lower APR.  He was told that he would be able to get 
a better  deal by setting  up a repayment  plan.  Mr R questioned if this would affect his credit  
rating. He was told that the impact would  be minimal. He says he got them to confirm  this 
and they were adamant that his credit file would be minimally affected. He explained that he 
wanted to get a mortgage and was assured that there wouldnt be any problems with his 
credit rating. 
Mr R entered into the repayment plan. 
Mr R later discovered that he did have difficulties  getting a mortgage.  He wanted to buy a 
property that he had been renting and subletting.  Mr R says that his landlord was offering 
him the property at a much reduced rate. 
Mr R says that, because  he was unable to get a mortgage, he had to give up trying to buy 
the property. Also,  he then had to stop renting the property so lost the income  that he had 
been making from this subletting.
Mr R complained to Barclays. 
Barclays wrote two final response letters on 6 November 2017  and on 29 May 2018. In the 
first letter, they hadnt appreciated  that they had misadvised  Mr R about the effect that a 
repayment plan would  have on his credit  file. They did, however, accept full responsibility for 
this in the second letter. They refunded Mr R late payment fees of £24 and interest  charges 
of around £260.  They  also suspended all interest and fees. Barclays said they would register 
a default on his credit file instead of the repayment plan and backdate  this to 
10 September 2016 when  the initial repayment  plan began. Finally,  they offered Mr R £500 
compensation. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this outcome so he came to us. 
Our senior  investigator found  that she couldnt uphold the complaint. In particular, she 
considered the following.  
She considered what Mr R wouldve done had he known the consequences of a repayment 
plan. Mr R said that he wouldve paid off the debt in full by, amongst other things, cashing in 
his shares. Our senior investigator didnt accept that this wouldve happened.
 
She thought  that the level of compensation offered by Barclays  was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN09251902Mr R didnt accept this. In particular, he wanted the following considered:  
He was renting  a property from his landlord  and he had an agreement  to sublet it. He 
was making a profit from this.
The landlord had agreed to sell the property to him for £105,000 even though  it had a 
market value of £130,000  but, because he couldnt  get a mortgage due to Barclays' 
error, he lost out on this opportunity to profit. He was intending on renting the property 
out in a similar way to how Airbnb works and so he lost out on this income too.
Barclays should never have told him that his credit  rating  wouldn't  be impacted as they 
werent qualified  financial advisers and shouldn't have  been  giving  him any financial 
advice.
He feels that our senior  investigator made an assumption about  whether he couldve 
afforded to cash in his shares.
Barclays didn't explain  the ramifications of the payment  arrangement and, had they done 
so, he wouldve paid the sums  owed in full.
Mr R says he hadn't missed any payments except for one month for which  he agreed the 
arrangement.
He wants his credit file cleared. He says he will pay Barclays  the £7,000 to do this but, 
currently, he feels that he can't  move forward and can't continue  with the business he 
was used to.
The complaint has now come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr R wont be happy with my decision. I think  that the level of compensation 
offered by Barclays and all that they have done  is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. I will explain  why. 
It is accepted that Barclays did give Mr R incorrect advice on how the repayment plan would 
affect his credit file. They shouldnt  have  given this advice because,  as Mr R points out, they 
werent qualified  financial advisers. 
So, my first consideration  is what Mr R wouldve done if he had been given the right advice. 
Mr R says that he wouldve cashed  in his shares and raised the money somehow to pay off 
the debt. I have considered all that has been presented to me to decide  whether Mr R not 
only couldve  but also whether he wouldve raised the money needed  to clear the debt. Im 
afraid I dont find that he wouldve.  Mr R says that he couldve paid off the money  owed now 
but he has been advised not to. I can see no reason why he wouldnt pay off the debt if he is 
able to. Mr R hasnt  paid off his debt so it does lead me to think  that he wouldnt have been 
able to at the time he entered into the repayment plan.
I also note that Mr R wouldve needed  money  for a deposit to buy the property that his 
landlord had offered him at a discount.  I have  seen nothing  to persuade me that he had 
money for both paying off the debt and for paying  the deposit. 
Because I have found that Mr R was going  to go into debt regardless of the incorrect  advice  
that Barclays gave  him, I cant see how Barclays is responsible for him not getting a 
Ref: DRN09251903mortgage. So, any losses that he has incurred by not being able to buy the property he 
wanted cant be due to Barclays error.  
Barclays made a mistake by misadvising  Mr R, but I think that they have done  all that they 
can to try to lessen the impact of this mistake.  They have acted fairly and reasonably  in:
offering compensation;
refunding fees and interest;
changing the credit file to show a default  instead of a repayment plan and backdating it.
I think that the steps that Barclays has taken are fair and reasonable. 
I think that Barclays reasonably changed the repayment plan recorded to a default. I dont 
think that they couldve done  anything  more to improve Mr Rs credit file considering that the 
debt is still owed. 
Mr R says that he hasnt  missed any payments except one that was agreed. I think  that 
Barclays has accurately reflected what has happened  on his credit  file. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr R wanted. But I cant hold Barclays responsible 
for Mr R having a default registered on his credit  file and him being unable to get a 
mortgage. 
my final decision
I think that Barclays Bank UK PLC have been fair and reasonable in their dealings with Mr R. 
They have accepted that they made a mistake and made amends for it. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0925190