K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Arval  UK 
Limited (AUL) has been of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr C took receipt of a new car in November 2018. He financed  the deal through a hire 
agreement with AUL. 
Within the first few days he noticed  a stain on the bonnet and he therefore returned the car 
to the dealership. They explained that the damage was done by bird droppings and they said 
in those circumstances the warranty would not cover a repair.
Mr C took his car to an independent body shop and they said:
the stain  definitely  came  from underneath the surface of the paint  and not from on top. This 
wasnt caused by mother nature  but was due to a paint defect.
But AUL still werent convinced they had responsibility for the defect so Mr C referred  his 
complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided an opinion. He noted that the defect 
was reported in the first few days and he therefore thought there  was evidence it was there  
from the outset. He considered whether it would be reasonable to suggest  AUL repair the 
car but he thought, in the circumstances, it would be fairer  to allow Mr C to reject the car; 
refund the pro-rated portion of his advance payment adding  interest  and pay Mr C £100  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hed experienced.
AUL agreed to pay £100 compensation  but they suggested it would be more  proportionate to 
allow them to repair the car. But Mr C rejected their offer and the complaint was therefore 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint AUL so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then AUL, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
Ref: DRN04390362responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr C. The car here 
was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask AUL to put this right. 
There is no dispute that there was a stain on the bonnet of the car and I think, given the very 
short time the car had been in Mr Cs possession  when he reported the fault,  its most  likely 
the stain was there when  the car was provided to him.
In those circumstances whether  the stain was caused by bird lime or an underlying paint 
defect doesnt  matter. AULs responsibility was to provide Mr C with a car that was of 
satisfactory quality and, as Ive explained, I dont think a brand new car with blemished 
paintwork could reasonably be considered to be of satisfactory quality. A brand new car 
should, I think, be fault free.
Mr C had a short term right to reject the car if he returned it in the first 30 days because 
there was something  wrong with it. I think theres  evidence here that the car was returned 
within 30 days and I think it would therefore be more reasonable for AUL to allow  Mr C to 
reject it rather  than complete a repair. Mr C has been waiting for some considerable time to 
get a resolution  to his complaint and I think this was a relatively  simple  issue  that should 
have been attended to earlier as, whilst  the cause of the blemish has been  in dispute, its 
presence hasnt been.
So I think it would now be reasonable to ask AUL to allow the rejection of the car. Mr C tells 
us he hasnt driven it much but Im not persuaded that it would be fair to refund any of the 
instalments hes made towards his credit  agreement in relation  to impaired usage. Whilst I 
understand that a paint blemish  isnt desirable  I dont think it would be fair to suggest it 
prevents the car from being  used  for the purpose  it was purchased  for.
It is clear however, that Mr C has been  inconvenienced by the matter.  Hes had to provide 
evidence of the failure mode to support his complaint and hes had to pursue  a complaint I 
think should have  been resolved much earlier. In those circumstances it would be fair for 
AUL to provide  some compensation for the distress and inconvenience  thats  been  caused 
and I think £100  is reasonable.
The adjudicator has suggested that a pro-rata  refund of Mr Cs deposit  is provided. I dont 
think thats fair. Mr C has been deprived of his deposit and may need it to secure  another 
vehicle. Its this services usual approach to refund the whole of the deposit  and I see no 
reason to deviate from that here.
Ref: DRN04390363my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Arval  UK Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr C £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse information  that may have  been reported  to his credit  file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0439036