K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Valour Finance  Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr B had one loan with Savvy for £800. The repayments were about £133  per month for 
12 months, commencing in August 2015.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt think Savvy  had acted irresponsibly 
when it lent to Mr B. Mr B didnt  agree  with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations and the time.
Before lending to Mr B, Savvy asked him about  his income and expenditure, obtained a 
payslip and other proof of employment and carried out a credit  check.  It also spoke to him by 
phone about his debts and his essential  and non-essential expenditure. 
Mr Bs payslip  showed his net income was around  £1,500 a month. During the phone call he 
said his living costs  were  very low (around  £250 a month) as he lived in a property owned by 
a parent and his partner paid some of the household bills. 
The main  focus  of the phone discussion was about Mr Bs debts.  He told Savvy some of the 
loans which  appeared on his credit  report had in fact been paid off and that hed use the 
Savvy loan to consolidate some of his other  loans, plus his overdraft. Savvy told Mr B that a 
credit report  suggested his monthly  debt obligations  were around £680  Mr B had said 
during the call that he thought they were much  lower than this.
I think it shouldve been clear to Savvy during the call that Mr B was likely providing  
incomplete information about his monthly debt obligations.  Additionally,  Mr B told Savvy he 
would use an £800 loan to consolidate far more than £800 of debt  which  simply doesnt 
make sense. I dont think Savvy made  sufficient  enquires on either point, which is particularly 
disappointing as it had plenty of opportunity to do so during the phone  call.
However, Savvy says it used the higher  credit  report figure of £680  for Mr Bs monthly debt 
obligations when  calculating the affordability of the loan. Using this figure, together  with the 
living costs  provided  by Mr B, the monthly  payments  for the loan Savvy  approved appear to 
be sustainably affordable for Mr B.
So overall, while I think Savvy shouldve done  more to question  some of the information
Mr B was providing, I dont think proportionate checks  for a loan of this size wouldve 
suggested it was unaffordable for him.
Ive thought about the points Mr B raised  in response to the adjudicators view. Mr B says he 
had 12 payday  loans and a credit  card  and that Savvy shouldve checked  his bank 
statements. I should clarify that Savvy  was under no obligation to check  Mr Bs bank 
statements  it might be appropriate in some circumstances for a lender to ask for this (or 
Ref: DRN01519282similar) information but I think it would be disproportionate to say Savvy  shouldve  done this 
for Mr Bs first and only loan with it. I can see it did obtain proof of employment  and a payslip 
from Mr B  I think that was sufficient  in the circumstances.
Ive also not seen any evidence Mr B had 12 active payday loans when he applied for his 
loan with Savvy. I can see he had some other  active  loans  and Savvy  discusses those 
which appeared on its credit check with him. I cant say Savvy was at fault if there were 
loans it didnt know about if they didnt  appear  on a credit check  and were also not disclosed 
by Mr B.
I realise it will be disappointing  for Mr B but I cannot  uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Valour Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0151928