K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the sale of a term assurance policy by Scottish Widows Limited
background
In 2011 Mr S was sold a term assurance policy by Scottish  Widows.  Mr S later complained 
that the policy was mis-sold. He said he had been forced to take out the policy. Scottish 
Widows didnt uphold his complaint. They said the policy was a condition of a business loan 
that Mr S taken out. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators. He explained that in his opinion,  businesses were entitled  to place conditions 
on their lending agreements. And if Mr S was unhappy with this condition  then he could have 
sought alternative borrowing elsewhere. He confirmed that hed checked that the policy was 
correctly set up to match  the borrowing Mr S had taken  out. And as it was correctly set up, 
he was unable to uphold the complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said he was forced to take out the policy  long after 
the loan was taken out. And he only had to take the policy out because  he had been 
awarded compensation for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI). He asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint and make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
the complaint.  I will now explain why.
Ive checked the documentation from the time of the sale. Mr S took out a business loan in 
2011 to consolidate existing debt.  His business  manager at the time made it a condition  of 
the new loan that Mr S should take out a life insurance policy.  The notes recorded  by the 
Business Manager  following a meeting with Mr S in February 2011 say the policy is required 
because the Business Loan Repayment  Insurance linked to the debts being consolidated 
was being cancelled.
Mr S thinks  he only had to take the policy out because of the PPI compensation he received. 
But Im satisfied that the notes from the time show why the policy was required. A lender  is 
entitled to decide on what basis it is willing to offer borrowing to a customer.  But the 
customer has the option to look elsewhere if they dont agree with any conditions of the loan. 
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about the policy  being  taken out long after the loan. 
While I dont doubt his recollection of the meeting, I have to balance  this against the 
information recorded. From the evidence Ive seen, the loan started on 23 March 2011  and 
the policy was taken out on 24 March  2011 and started on 31 March 2011. I appreciate there  
was a small delay between the loan starting  and when the insurance policy was taken out. 
But having  considered all the evidence  and in particular the records of the meeting with his 
business manager in February  2011, Im satisfied that it was agreed that the policy was a 
condition of the loan before the loan was taken out.
Ref: DRN09008492Mr S has said he was unable to go elsewhere  for lending. And the lender threatened to call 
in his loan unless he took the policy out. Im sorry to hear that Mr S felt he was forced into 
taking out the policy  and felt he couldnt go elsewhere. However,  despite  having taken into 
account the recollections of Mr S, Ive seen  nothing in the paperwork which mentions calling 
in the loan. So although Im sorry Mr S felt under pressure, I cant find anything  to support 
this part of the complaint. I also havent seen any evidence to show Mr S was refused for 
credit anywhere else, so Im not satisfied he was unable to get credit  anywhere else.
Having considered all the evidence and taking into account that a business  is entitled to 
include conditions when  lending  money.  I cant fairly say that the condition to protect  the loan 
was unreasonable. The policy was set up correctly to match  the term and amount of the loan 
Mr S took out and it decreased in line with the loan.  The policy was cancelled  with effect 
from October 2017. However  it would have responded  to a claim whilst in force.  Because  of 
these reasons, Im not satisfied the policy was mis-sold and I cant  uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0900849