K821x#15complaint
Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G complain about the level of assistance provided by U K Insurance
Limited (UKI) under a travel insurance  policy when Ms G fell ill abroad.
background
Mr G holds a travel  insurance policy provided by UKI, as a benefit  of his bank account.
Mr G, Mrs G and their daughter Ms G are all insured under the policy.
Ms G was on holiday without her parents when she became ill and was admitted to hospital.
Ms G had an operation  and spent a few days recovering in hospital,  so she missed  an
onward flight to another destination.
When she was discharged from hospital,  Ms G booked an alternative hotel and stayed there
for two nights until the date of her original  return flight to the UK.
Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G were  all in contact  with UKI from the day of Ms Gs admittance to
hospital. UKI agreed to upgrade Ms Gs original return flight  from economy class  to business
class and there were  a number of discussions about whether a travelling companion  could
also be upgraded to fly with her.
After Ms G was discharged from hospital  and UKI received a medical report  from her treating
doctor, there  were  further conversations between Mrs G, Ms G and UKI. UKI said theyd only
be upgrading Ms Gs seat and not that of her travelling companion.
But when Ms G arrived at the airport the airline said they had no record  of receiving an
upgrade request from UKI. After  a number of telephone conversations  between Mr G, Ms G
and UKI, Ms G flew back to the UK in economy class.
Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G complained to UKI about  how the claim was handled, how they were
spoken to during telephone calls and that UKIs  call handler hung up on them.
UKI sent a final response letter to Mrs G saying they should have organised an upgrade for
Ms G but that it wasnt medically necessary for a companion to travel with her in business
class. UKI sent a cheque for £400  to Mr G in recognition  of the problems  experienced during
the claim.
UKI also sent a final response letter to Ms G addressing the customer service issues both
she and Mr G experienced during calls with UKI while  Ms G was at the airport.  UKI agreed
the handling of these  calls was unacceptable  and sent a cheque for £100 to Mr G by way of
an apology.
Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G remained unhappy  so they brought  their complaint to the attention  of
this service.
Our investigator thought the overall  payment of £500 which UKI had made  was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances. Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G didnt agree so the complaint was 
passed to me.
I made  my provisional decision about the complaint in August 2019.  In it, I said:
Ref: DRN08371542UKI have no obligation to upgrade the flight of either  a policyholder  or a travelling 
companion unless this is certified as being medically necessary.
While Ms G was still in hospital, UKI didnt have a medical report from Ms Gs treating doctor
but they nonetheless  agreed to upgrade  her seat to business  class as it would be easier  for
her to rest.
I can understand Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G were  all anxious about the possibility of Ms G
having to travel in business class alone.  However, at this point, there  was no medical
evidence to confirm  when Ms G would be fit to fly or that it was medically necessary for
Ms G  either alone  or with a companion - to travel  in business class. So I dont think UKI
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how they handled  the claim during the time Ms G was still 
in hospital.
The medical report from Ms Gs treating doctor  is dated the same  day as Ms Gs discharge
from hospital and very clearly says Ms G should be fit to fly.as seated  passenger  in
business class  with companion escort.
When UKI reviewed this report their medical  team decided Ms G wouldnt need  help using
the toilet on the plane and wheelchair assistance would mean Ms G wouldnt have to carry
anything. So UKI determined  that the upgrade  of a travelling companion wasnt necessary.
UKIs notes  show they intended to check with the treating doctor if their plan to upgrade only
Ms G and provide her with wheelchair  assistance was sufficient. But I havent seen any
evidence that UKI did speak with the treating doctor,  or that the treating doctor told UKI
Ms Gs companion escort could travel  in any class.
Ive taken into account the level of anxiety which Ms G was clearly  experiencing about the
thought of flying alone. Ms G says this anxiety  was seen by and discussed with her treating
doctor. It seems reasonable to assume that Ms Gs anxiety levels were taken into account by 
the doctor when making the written  recommendation that Ms G should be upgraded along
with a companion  escort.
Overall, based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im persuaded  by the medical report that it was
medically necessary  for Ms G to travel in business class with a companion.
This means  I think  it would have  been  fair and reasonable for UKI to follow the
recommendations outlined in the medical report  and agree to upgrade both Ms G and a
travelling companion to business class for the return flight.
But UKI failed to arrange for even Ms G herself to be upgraded. So Ms G travelled back to
the UK in economy class,  against medical  advice. I can understand her reasons for choosing
to do so  she was a young girl travelling without her parents for the first time after having
her first surgery  and she told us she is not a frequent flyer. Ms Gs alternative option would
have been to stay alone  in a wheelchair in an airport abroad while  still in pain and wait for a
new flight to be arranged.  Given what happened  during Mr G and Ms Gs telephone calls
with UKI when Ms G was at the airport, which  Ill address in more  detail  below, I dont think
Ms G acted  unreasonably  by choosing to take what she saw as the best option open to her 
to use her originally booked economy seat.
Ms G has said her flight home was uncomfortable  and she was worried  about the possible
consequences of going against medical advice on both her health and on her insurance
Ref: DRN08371543cover. Ive taken the impact of this on Ms G into account when thinking about what  level of
compensation I think is appropriate.
I understand Ms G said she needed  follow-up treatment on her return  to the UK and feels
the stress  of this situation and returning in an economy seat affected her recovery. But I
have to bear in mind  that I havent  seen any medical evidence supporting what  Ms G has
said about this.
Mr and Mrs G have commented  on the amount a business class  upgrade  would have cost
UKI. But I dont think this is relevant to the level of distress and inconvenience Mr G, Mrs G
and Ms G suffered. We generally consider financial loss and compensation as two separate
issues and our awards of compensation are primarily based on the impact we think  a
business error has had on an individual.
As Ive already  mentioned,  I dont think UKI handled  the claim unreasonably prior to Ms G
being discharged from hospital. But I dont think they communicated effectively with Mr G,
Mrs G and Ms G in the days after that. And I also dont think  UKI gave an appropriate level
of assistance  to Mr G and Ms G while Ms G was at the airport.
Ive listened to the telephone calls which took place  between  Mr G and Ms G and UKI when
Ms G was trying to check-in for her flight. UKI said during these  calls that theyd sent a
request to the airline but hadnt had a response  and this could take up to 72 hours.
UKI had been  given  Ms Gs flight details two days prior to these calls and I think  it would
have been reasonable  for them to have updated Ms G before she left for the airport if they
hadnt heard  back from the airline.  UKIs advisor told Mr G they were chasing  the airline for a
response but Ive seen  no evidence of this on the notes which UKI has sent to us.
Ms G makes  it clear during the calls that she is not used to flying,  is in a wheelchair waiting
to check-in and doesnt understand what she is supposed to do next. I dont  think  UKIs
advisor gave her any meaningful assistance.
I also dont think some of UKIs  advisors  comments during the call with Mr G were helpful.
While its unclear whether  the second  call between Ms G and UKI was terminated
intentionally, UKI has acknowledged they shouldnt have terminated the call with Mr G.
Overall, I think Ms G experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of UKIs failure  to
arrange an upgrade for her and a travelling companion when she was in a vulnerable
situation. And I think Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G experienced  distress  and inconvenience
because of UKIs lack of communication after Ms G was discharged  from hospital  and the
level of assistance  provided while Ms G at the airport,  at what  was already a worrying and
upsetting time.
I think a compensation  award in the category of what wed consider substantial  would be
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I intend to recommend that UKI should pay a
total of £800 (which includes the £500 payment already made).
As I understand it, Ms G doesnt have any outstanding medical  expenses.
But, as a result of falling  ill, Ms G says she incurred additional accommodation expenses
and lost out on the use of pre-booked flights and accommodation. I note the policy  also
provides for the payment of hospital  benefit in certain circumstances. Its unclear whether
Ref: DRN08371544these costs and benefits have been  considered and/or paid by UKI. If not, then UKI should
consider these subject  to the terms and conditions of the policy and subject to Ms G
providing any reasonable supporting evidence that UKI requires.
If Ms G is unhappy with UKIs conclusions after they consider these costs and benefits, she
has the right to complain  to UKI and bring a new complaint to this service.
So, my provisional decision was that UKI should pay Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G a total of £800 
for the distress and inconvenience they experienced and consider Ms Gs claim for 
additional costs,  unused costs and hospital benefit  payment.
UKI accepted my provisional decision but Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G didnt.  They say the 
compensation awarded doesnt reflect the pain,  discomfort and anxiety suffered by Ms G 
and doesnt cover the cost of a business  class flight.  Overall, they feel UKI have been  let off 
lightly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr G, Mrs G and Ms Gs additional comments  but I wont  be 
changing my provisional decision. 
As Ive already  explained, the cost of a business  class upgrade isnt something which I think 
is relevant when deciding what level of compensation is appropriate.  
The financial  cost of a business class upgrade to an insurer  may vary significantly and is a 
cost that neither the insurer nor the policyholder has any control over.  The purpose of a 
compensation award is to recognise  the impact of a business mistake on a customer. I dont 
think it would  be fair to either a customer or to a business to base  a compensation award on 
a variable fee charged by a third party. 
Our compensation awards arent intended  to be a punishment towards or a deterrent  for 
businesses, and I have  no power  to sanction UKI for their actions in this case. 
When making my award, Ive taken into account everything Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G have told 
us, as well as the guidance on compensation available on our website.  I understand Mr G, 
Mrs G and Ms G feel strongly about what happened  but I think  £800 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances and I wont be asking UKI to increase this any further. 
Ref: DRN08371545my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr G, Mrs G and Ms Gs complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited must do the following;
pay Mr G, Mrs G and Ms G a total of £800 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced. This includes  the £500 payment already made;
consider Ms Gs claim  for additional costs,  unused  costs and hospital benefit
payment. This is subject  to the terms and conditions of the policy  and subject to
Ms G providing any reasonable supporting evidence which  U K Insurance  Limited  
may require.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G, Mrs G and 
Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0837154