K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains he wasnt able to make a payment from his Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) current  account, which caused him frustration and inconvenience, and left him out of 
pocket. And he says Halifax gave him poor customer  service  when he complained. 
background
Mr K says that in September  2018 he travelled to Tunisia specifically to buy a rare watch  for 
which hed been  on a long waiting list. He says he was assured beforehand there would be 
no problem making  a payment for it.
Mr K tried to pay for the watch using his debit card but the payment was declined. He then 
tried to make a smaller payment however this was declined too. So he called Halifax  and it 
advised him to try paying  by online bank  transfer, but this payment failed. Mr K says that, 
after several hours and calls to Halifax, he had to leave  without  buying  the watch. 
Mr K says this caused him frustration and inconvenience, and left him out of pocket  because  
hed had to make several calls to Halifax whilst  abroad. And he says that instead of travelling 
from Tunisia to another country as hed planned,  he had to return to the UK to resolve this. 
So Mr K complained to Halifax. In its final response, it said it hadnt made any errors when 
Mr Ks payment s attempts  were  declined. But it said hed spent a long time on the phone 
and not been told why his payment  didnt go through. It apologised and offered Mr K £100 
for his inconvenience  as well as a further £60 for his call costs.  
Mr K didnt accept this as he didnt  think it was enough compensation. So he asked our 
service to investigate.  After looking into it, our investigator said Halifax  wasnt responsible for 
the number of calls Mr K had to make,  that it had correctly declined the chip and pin 
payments and that it didnt cause the bank transfer to fail. She said Mr K hadnt contacted  
the bank prior to attempting  payment so it didnt have the chance to advise him about  
making the payment. And she didnt think Halifax had given  Mr K poor customer service.
Mr K disagreed. He said there were inconsistencies in a letter  hed been  sent and that he did 
contact Halifax before the payment problems.  So its been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it and 
Ill explain  why.
Mr K wanted  to purchase a high value item abroad, so this was an unusual transaction.  Like 
other banks,  Halifax has a range of measures in place  to protect its customers  and prevent 
fraudulent transactions, and they can result in payments being blocked. Given the 
transactions unusual  nature,  Id have expected Mr K to let Halifax  know beforehand  that he 
was intending  to make this payment.
Mr K says that he did, and was told the transaction would be fine. We asked Mr K for more 
information about this as well as the letter hed been sent, but he didnt provide further 
details. Based on Halifaxs contact notes and calls with Mr K, Ive not seen or heard anything  
Ref: DRN04817572to suggest Mr K told Halifax about  this payment beforehand  or that it gave him any 
assurances about it.
One of Halifaxs  fraud  prevention measures is to have daily limits  on its transactions.  Ive 
seen that the chip and pin payments were  over its daily limits  for the type of transaction Mr K 
was trying to make, so I think Halifax correctly declined these.
On Halifaxs advice, Mr K then tried paying the merchant by online international bank 
transfer. From the calls Ive heard and the account activity information provided  by Halifax, 
Ive seen there were  a number of problems with the transfer - the authorisation code wasnt 
accepted; Mr K was unable to pass security on one of his calls; he didnt receive security 
codes that account records  show Halifax sent him by text message; two of his calls 
disconnected and the Halifax  agent  couldnt reach Mr K when she tried to call him back. 
But ultimately, based on the account activity, Ive seen  that Halifax  didnt receive any further 
payment instructions after Mr Ks earlier chip and pin attempts. So Im satisfied the bank 
transfer wasnt stopped by Halifax. It seems  likely the failure in making the bank  transfer was 
instead down  to poor internet connection.
Mr K is unhappy Halifax didnt escalate  his complaint after giving him its final response.  Its 
contact notes show it told him his next step would  be to contact  our service. Since Mr K had 
reached the end of Halifaxs complaint  process,  I dont think it acted unreasonably  in fact 
this is something its required to do. Mr K wanted Halifax to note hed withdrawn funds and 
intended to close  his accounts.  The contact  notes show it noted this when asked, so I dont 
think Halifax made an error here. 
Halifax has offered Mr K a total of £160  compensation for his inconvenience and call costs. I 
dont think this is unreasonable,  and I leave it to Mr K to accept  or decline this offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0481757