K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Go Car Credit Limited (GGC)  treated her unfairly when she 
experienced financial difficulties in repaying  her hire purchase agreement. She wants it to 
accept a payment  arrangement she put forward.
background
Miss B tells us that she took out the hire purchase agreement, financed  by GCC, in 2016. 
But soon afterwards she says she ran into financial difficulties. Miss B says she did her best 
to make payments  but she doesnt  think GCC has treated  her fairly. She says in January 
2019 she made a lump  sum payment of £1,000 and offered  to make a further payment when 
she received a grant she was expecting. But she says GCC told her she had to pay £80 per 
week or risk the car being repossessed.  Miss B says shes a single  parent  with a young  child 
and the worry  is causing her health  problems.
GCC told us that it had shown forbearance given the severity of the arrears.  And it had 
offered Miss B the chance to voluntarily terminate  the agreement - which it said shed 
refused. It said previous  payment  arrangements  had been broken  by Miss B.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that Miss B had 
fallen into arrears on the agreement and that GCC had put in place various payments plans. 
She found that Miss B had rarely kept to these  arrangements. She felt that GCC had showed 
forbearance and taken into account  Miss Bs situation. And she didnt think  the business had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Miss B didnt agree with this outcome  and said she didnt  think  GCC had acted fairly in 
asking her to pay more tan she could afford. As its not been  possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss B has experienced financial difficulties and I understand the stress and 
upset that this can cause. 
I should say at the outset that since I started  my enquiries theres  been  a material change  of 
circumstance. Whilst this doesnt affect my final decision  its likely to have some practical 
consequences which Miss B might  well see as beneficial.  Ill explain whats happened in 
more detail later in my decision.
When Miss B originally took out the finance agreement it was for a term of 38 months with 
payments of just over £250 per month  required.  This meant the agreement  was due to be 
fully repaid and terminate  in August 2019. But arrears occurred almost immediately and the 
agreement has remained in arrears  ever since. The latest figure Ive been given indicates 
that the arrears  in December 2019  were  just under £3,000. 
I can see that there have  been numerous payment arrangements in the period since the 
agreement commenced.  Our adjudicator gave a detailed summary of these in her view letter. 
And I neednt repeat  the detail here as both parties  are aware  of it. But Im afraid the overall  
picture is one of arrangements being made and then repeatedly broken.
Ref: DRN04285092Although Miss B has expressed  particular  concern  about the refusal to accept her latest  
payment offer I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to view this in isolation. We expect 
businesses to treat customers who run into financial difficulties fairly. But this doesnt  mean 
that forbearance is open-ended. 
Given the number  of times GCC has agreed  to a payment plan - only for Miss B then not to 
keep to the terms - I dont  think it would be fair to say it acted unfairly in rejecting  her latest 
offer. But given circumstances have now changed significantly there would be little point  in 
me saying  that I thought it was fair and reasonable for GCC to proceed  to repossess the 
vehicle which had been its intention.
The changes to which I refer are that GCC has now decided that its no longer economically 
viable to seek a recovery of goods  order. So its no longer seeking to repossess the vehicle. 
Which means Miss B can retain  it. And the agreement itself has expired. This means that 
rather than collect monthly  contractual payments, GCC is entitled to seek repayment  of the 
arrears.
I should also point  out that as the terms of the agreement enable the debt to be assigned 
(transferred) to another business GCC also has this option available.  Although  thats entirely 
a matter for it to determine.
Its now for Miss B and GCC (or its assignees) to reach an arrangement for the payment of 
the outstanding arrears.  I note that Miss B was making some payments up until the end of 
2019 - although  I understand these  have now ceased.
In summary,  I think GCC has treated Miss B fairly  throughout the period  of her financial 
difficulties. Its shown  considerable forbearance  even where arrangements  were not kept. 
And although its no longer seeking  repossession of the vehicle GCC is entitled to seek  
repayment of the arrears.  In all the circumstances Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0428509