K820x#14complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy  Zenith Insurance plc automatically renewed her mobile  phone  insurance 
policy, as she had asked  to cancel it after getting a renewal notice. For simplicity, Ill refer to 
Zeniths agents who sold the insurance and managed  its claims both as Zenith .
background
Mrs Z took out the policy in December 2016.  Mrs Z didnt remember having this policy when 
she damaged the phone it covered  in September 2017. She got a new phone and contract 
instead of attempting to make a claim.  And she also took out a different insurance policy 
elsewhere for her new phone.
Zenith wrote to Mrs Z in November 2017  to say it would renew the policy and take payment 
in December, on its anniversary. Mrs Z asked what the policy  was covering and when Zenith 
told her it covered the phone she damaged in September, she made a claim. The damaged 
phone couldnt  be repaired and so Zenith sent Mrs Z a replacement. 
Mrs Z says she told Zenith to cancel the policy before it renewed in December 2017 because 
she no longer needed  it. But Zenith didnt cancel it and in November 2018, it wrote  to her 
again to say it would renew  the policy in December  prompting Mrs Z to complain.
Zenith looked into Mrs Zs complaint and accepted it shouldnt have renewed the policy  in 
December 2017.  It gave Mrs Z a full refund  of the premium she paid in 2017  with interest 
and backdated  the cancellation of the policy.
Mrs Z is unhappy  she twice had to chase  Zenith  for the refund and it took two weeks  to 
arrive in her bank account. So she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Zenith 
had acted fairly by refunding the 2017 premium and the time it took to process wasnt 
unreasonable. So she didnt find that Zenith  needed to do more.
Mrs Z disagrees and has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for what are broadly the same  reasons.
Zenith agrees  it shouldnt  have renewed  Mrs Zs policy in December 2017. And for this 
reason, it gave Mrs Z a full refund of the premium  with interest whilst also backdating the 
policy cancellation. Im therefore left to consider whether Zenith should pay extra  
compensation for its shortcomings, including the delay in refunding  the premium.  I dont  think  
it should  Ill explain why.
One of the reasons Mrs Z wants Zenith to pay some compensation is because she want to 
send a clear message to it that they should  not be allowed to carry on their dubious 
practices unrestrained. But an award  for distress and inconvenience is not designed to be 
punitive in nature. Only the regulator  i.e. the Financial Conduct  Authority  can fine 
Ref: DRN09151852authorised firms for failing  to adhere to regulatory  principles. So I cannot look to award Mrs Z 
compensation simply in order to punish  the insurer. 
Ive considered the service Mrs Z received after she found out that her policy  was still 
running. Its clear shes been  left frustrated by the actions  of Zenith and its agents   in 
particular at having to chase it twice  for a refund.  I can see, for example, that there had been 
an avoidable  delay  in the progress of her refund when the payment instruction was initially  
overlooked. But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances,  any compensation award 
is proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered. 
The refund was further delayed by the unavailability of Mrs Zs original payment method to 
accept the payment, something not within Zeniths control. Once  the problem had been 
identified and Mrs Zs bank account details obtained, Zenith  made the payment the same  
day  which  meant she got her refund  within two weeks. Im not convinced the modest delay  
had sufficient impact on Mrs Z based  on what shes said.  So, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Zenith  to pay compensation on top of the refund.  
With all of the above in mind,  Im not persuaded  Zenith needs  to do anything more here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0915185