K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK Plc has treated unfairly when not paying  interest  on her 
current account.
background
Mrs A has a 123 current account  with Santander.  In September  2017  she stopped receiving 
interest on this account but was still charged the monthly £5.00 account fee.
Mrs A complained about not receiving the interest  on her account. Santander said because  
she only had one direct  debit active on it, she wasnt meeting the eligibility requirements to 
receive the interest payments.
Santander said it was sorry  she hadnt  realised this wasnt being paid. And as a gesture of 
goodwill, offered  £75.00  as a payment towards  the lost interest. It said it couldnt agree to 
more than this as it didnt feel it had done  anything wrong and the account  had been  
operated in line with its terms and conditions.
Our investigator looked at Mrs As complaint and said he didnt think  Santander needed to 
do anything else. He said the account  wasnt managed  by Santander for Mrs A and there 
was an onus on her to make sure it was being  managed in line with the terms and conditions 
of it. And it wasnt fair to expect Santander to notify her that the account was no longer 
meeting the eligibility criteria.
Mrs A disagreed and said Santander should have closed the account  down as soon as it 
realised she wasnt eligible for the interest  on it. Our investigator explained he didnt think it 
was fair to expect this  just because someone  didnt qualify for the interest wouldnt indicate 
the account should be closed. Ultimately he reiterated that he felt Mrs A had an obligation  on 
herself to manage  the account  in line with the terms and conditions.
Because Mrs A disagreed  with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint  
for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs A 
but Ill explain why.
The first thing to consider  on this case is whether Santander acted fairly when it didnt pay 
the interest on Mrs As current  account  from September 2017.
The Key Facts document for the account sets out the benefits of it and the requirements to 
qualify for these. In section five of this titled Interest  rates and cashback, there is a table 
which details the interest  rate in column  one, the cashback percentage and eligible cashback  
categories in column two and the eligibility for cashback and interest in column three. These 
show that to qualify for the cashback  and interest  the account must have a monthly  credit  of 
at least £500.00  and have two active direct  debits.
Ref: DRN08993782It isnt disputed that from September 2017, Mrs A only had one active  direct debit on her 
account. So she didnt  meet the eligibility requirements for the cashback  and interest 
payments. And I think its fair that the account didnt receive the interest  payments from this 
point.
Mrs A doesnt think its fair that Santander  didnt  actively  notify  her that she wasnt  meeting 
the eligibility requirements  and receiving the interest on her account. 
While Santander didnt  notify Mrs A specifically about this, I think  it did provide her with 
enough information to be aware.  Mrs A is able to see the monthly transactions on her 
account with her statements for it. The account is clearly not used as her main current 
account with it maintaining a large  balance  and standing order  to move money between it 
and another account to meet the minimum credit requirement  demonstrating she was 
aware of this requirement.
With there not being a great  deal of transactions on the account, I think Mrs A should  have  
been aware sooner that she wasnt receiving  the interest on her account. And I dont think it 
is fair to expect Santander to do more than make  sure the transactions for the account are 
detailed correctly as it did. 
Mrs A said she expects  Santander to help manage her account  for her. Although its likely 
when it was first opened it would have helped set up the standing orders  Ive mentioned 
above, it wasnt an account where  Santander actively managed  it for her. As with most  
current accounts, there is an expectation on the customer  to make sure they are operating  
the account in line with its terms and conditions. And in a way which suits their needs for it. 
And I dont  think Santander has been  unfair  or unreasonable when it didnt proactively 
contact Mrs A when it went to having  only one active direct debit on the account.  
Overall I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to do any more  with this complaint. I 
think its offer to pay Mrs A £75.00  as a gesture of goodwill towards  her lost interest is fair  
as I dont think made a mistake which caused this loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0899378