K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G has complained about  Assurant General  Insurance Limited. They  isnt happy 
about the way it dealt  with a claim under his mobile phone  policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs G made a claim under his mobile  phone insurance policy which  was met by 
Assurant. However, when it sent Mr and Mrs G a replacement phone  it was locked to a 
different network  provider.
Assurant asked Mr and Mrs G to try and get the replacement phone unlocked  which  he did. 
Mr and Mrs G went  to a great deal of effort to get the phone unlocked  but it couldnt  be 
unlocked. Assurant said that there wasnt  any point  in sending a further replacement phone  
again as the same problem would re-occur. 
So it said it would send  Mr and Mrs G the equivalent  cost of a refurbished phone and it 
increased its offer slightly. But Mr and Mrs G didnt think he could buy a replacement phone 
for his daughter  for the amount offered and complained to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr and Mrs G and upheld his complaint.  She was of 
the view that Mr and Mrs G had been put to a lot of trouble when he simply wanted an 
unlocked phone or even one that was locked to the correct network phone provider. She 
asked Assurant to source  the same phone that was on cover and to provide  an unlocked  
replacement phone to Mr and Mrs G and pay £150 compensation.
As Assurant  didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why. 
I dont propose to rehearse  the detail of the complaint as it is accepted by both sides. The 
only issue to consider is whether Assurants actions in sending Mr and Mrs G a replacement 
phone locked to a totally different network  is reasonable.
While I accept that Assurant has tried to act reasonably by replacing Mr and Mrs Gs phone 
and then offering  a cash equivalent replacement (for a second  hand or refurbished phone)  I 
think it has left Mr and Mrs G in difficult position.  
I say this as he simply wants a similar  replacement phone and the one he has been provided 
with cant be used  on his own network.  When this was established  Assurant asked Mr and 
Mrs G to run around and try and get the phone unlocked. When this failed it agreed to pay 
Mr and Mrs G an equivalent cost of a second hand phone. But Mr and Mrs G doesnt  feel 
this is fair and doesnt want to look on eBay  for a second hand or refurbished phone. Given 
the difficulties  hes faced to date I cant say that he is acting unreasonably.
I know that Assurants  policy allows it to replace Mr and Mrs Gs phone with a refurbished 
phone, which Mr and Mrs G accepts,  but I dont think  it is fair to ask Mr and Mrs G to source  
his own phone. So, the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN02251182case, is for Assurant to source the phone and take responsibility for this. It should  ensure 
that the phone it provides is unlocked or at least compatible with Mr and Mrs Gs network 
provider even if this means it has to provide  a brand  new phone.
Finally, I can see that Assurant offered Mr and Mrs G £50 in compensation for all the hassle 
and inconvenience  he has had to face. But hes had to be without his replacement  phone for 
a long time and has been asked to do a lot more than he shouldve  been to try and get the 
phone unlocked. As such, I agree  with the adjudicator that he should be paid £150  
compensation.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to provide Mr and Mrs G with an unlocked replacement  phone 
and to pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0225118