K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) was irresponsible to lend 
him money.
background
Mr L took out five loans  with QuickQuid between April 2017 and January 2018. A summary 
of his borrowing  is below:
Loan Date borrowed Amount Date repaid
1 15/04/17 £400 14/06/17
2 01/07/17 £300 + 
top up01/09/17
3 01/09/17 £150 07/09/17
4 24/09/17 £150 31/01/18
5 31/01/18 £200 unpaid
Mr L says that he was caught in a spiral of debt  borrowing from multiple lenders to try and 
keep up with his repayments. Mr L would like QuickQuid to refund the interest  and charges 
that hes paid on the loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld  in part. In summary, 
she thought the final repayment  on loan one of £493  represented  a significant proportion of 
Mr Ls declared monthly income  of £1,200. The adjudicator thought  that this meant  
QuickQuid shouldve asked Mr L for details of his living costs, regular and short  term 
financial commitments. But as we didnt have  any information from Mr L about  what  these 
were, the adjudicator couldnt say what QuickQuid  wouldve discovered with better checks.
The adjudicator didnt think that QuickQuid  shouldve  agreed to lend from the first top-up on 
loan two onwards.  She recommended that QuickQuid refund all interest and charges that 
Mr L had paid from 11 July 2017 onwards and pay interest on the refund. And she said it 
should remove any negative information about the affected loans from Mr Ls credit file. 
QuickQuid disagreed with the adjudicators view. It says that Mr L managed  to repay  loan 
two by the due date and was able to pay an additional amount on the first repayment on loan 
two. QuickQuid says that Mr L repaid loan three early so it cant  agree that it was 
irresponsible to lend to Mr L.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN01793642With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
QuickQuid should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre borrowing a 
significant proportion  of their income.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
When Mr L took out loan one it was early on in his borrowing relationship  with QuickQuid so 
there wasnt any history to consider. However, QuickQuid expected Mr L to repay a 
significant proportion  of his declared  monthly  income of £1,200. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that this shouldve prompted QuickQuid  to carry out better  
checks than it did. I think it was proportionate to expect QuickQuid to ask Mr L about his 
living costs  and all financial commitments, including his other short term loans.  But as the 
adjudicator has said,  Mr L hasnt given us any evidence of his finances  at the time. It follows  
that I cant reasonably  uphold  Mr Ls complaint  about loan one.
The fact that Mr L repaid  a loan early or on time doesnt necessarily mean that he was able 
to do so without  borrowing  elsewhere.  And Mr L went  on to roll over loan two  indicating  
that he couldnt afford to repay  the loan in line with the terms of his loan agreement.  
Ref: DRN01793643I think that QuickQuid shouldve realised that the amount it expected Mr L to repay after he 
asked to roll-over loan two was a significant enough  proportion of his declared monthly 
income to mean that it was likely Mr L would have to borrow again to repay it.
I think that QuickQuid shouldve realised that it was unlikely that Mr L could sustainably 
repay his borrowing from the top-up on loan two onwards. I think  the fact that Mr L was late 
repaying loan four and hasnt been  able to repay loan five demonstrates the lending  was 
unsustainable. Mr L was also borrowing  immediately upon or shortly after or settling each  
earlier loan  again an indication that he struggling  with his finances. So it seems fair to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint about the top-up on loan two and loans three to five.
I understand that Mr L still owes money on loan five. As hes had the benefit of the money 
lent, its fair to allow QuickQuid to apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance if it 
wants.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr L paid on the loans from 11 July 2017 onwards;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan five;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan five before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mr L**; and
remove any negative entries about  the loans taken out from 11 July 2017 onwards from 
Mr Ls credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  
QuickQuid of its obligation to treat Mr L sympathetically and reasonably in any repayment 
discussions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and direct  CashEuroNet UK LLC 
(trading as QuickQuid) to put things right as detailed above. 
Ref: DRN01793644Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN0179364