K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs S says she doesnt recall the PPI being  discussed; she thinks  she must  have applied for 
the credit  card on the phone and that the PPI was added  without  her knowledge. BOS says 
Mrs S applied for the credit card and PPI in branch. BOS has sent me a copy  of Mrs Ss 
application form. In it, there is a separate section for PPI. The instruction says If you would 
like to take advantage of these services please  mark  the relevant boxes. Which I think  
makes it clear that the PPI was optional. The box for PPI has had an X placed in it 
requesting cover  and Mrs S has signed the form to confirm her selections. Although  the X 
on the form was printed  rather than hand  written, Mrs S did hand sign the application overall,  
and I wouldve expected Mrs S to have looked over the form before signing it. 
I can also see the PPI appeared on Mrs Ss credit  card statement so had she not agreed to 
the cover, I wouldve  expected her to have questioned what  these payments were  for. Weve 
also seen a number  of complaints from around  the time Mrs S bought her PPI and from what  
weve seen of these  cases, I understand BOS  made  the optional  nature of the PPI clear and 
asked for customers to agree to it before adding it to their accounts as part of its usual 
process. 
So, overall, I think its more likely  BOS  made  it clear  Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out. Although given how long ago the policy  was sold,  I can 
understand why she might not remember this now.  
BOS says it recommended  the PPI to Mrs S, so it had to check  the PPI was right for her. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mrs S was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. Mrs S has told us that as well as her full-time employment,  she was also a 
director for her husbands limited company, but shes said she didnt  receive a salary.  So I 
dont think that her position  in her husbands company would have affected her ability  to 
claim under the PPI policy.  
Mrs S also seems to also have had a need for the cover.  Shes told us she was entitled to 
some sick pay from her employer, but this policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if 
Mrs S was unable to work because of illness or injury  so potentially longer than her full sick 
pay wouldve lasted. It also provided cover for unemployment. Mrs S has also said she had 
access to dividends from her husbands  company that were  paid into their joint account, and 
that she could  have relied on her husband  to help cover her credit  card payments if needed. 
But I dont though think this means  the PPI was unsuitable, circumstances can change, so I 
Ref: DRN03340882dont think that either  the dividends from the limited company or help from her husband  could 
be guaranteed.  With all this in mind, I still think the PPI couldve been useful for her.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think its likely she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs S paid for it. But BOS  has already offered to give Mrs S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  BOS will make arrangements to pay Mrs S 
now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0334088