K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is that Phoenix Life Limited will not honour the full amount of a final 
payment offered under a life assurance policy.
background
Mrs Bs husband sadly passed  away in August 2018. She claimed under his life assurance 
policy with Phoenix  Life. It told her she was entitled to receive either five monthly payments 
of £2,218 or a lump sum payment of £9,656. Because  the total of the monthly payments was 
larger than the lump sum, Mrs B chose this option. Phoenix Life confirmed the monthly 
arrangement had been set up in a letter to Mrs B dated 4 October  2018.
On 1 December  2018, following four payments of £2,218, Mrs B received a final payment of 
£875. Correspondence ensued with Phoenix  Life with Mrs B complaining she was due an 
additional £1,343. This was the shortfall  between what she thought  she would receive 
(£2,218) and what she received (£875).
In its final response,  Phoenix Life confirmed it had made an error. In letters  sent in 
September and October 2018,  it had told Mrs B she was entitled  to receive five payments of 
£2,218. But in the final month she was only due a proportionate payment of £875. Phoenix 
Life explained this was because the policy end date reflected the set-up date of 
12 December 2002. So £875 was a proportionate  payment  due for the period 1 December 
2018 to 12 December 2018  (expiry date). Phoenix  Life offered Mrs B £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by its mistake.  Mrs B declined  this offer and brought  
her complaint to our service.
Our investigators didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She didnt think the mistake  created an 
entitlement to receive the stated payment. And she considered the £300 offered by Phoenix  
Life for the distress and inconvenience caused, was fair.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not upholding 
this complaint. Before  I explain  my reasoning,  Id like to offer my condolences to Mrs B for 
her loss. I appreciate this must be a difficult time for her. 
Its clear Phoenix Life made  a mistake by telling  Mrs B she was entitled  to five payments of 
£2,218 commencing  on 1 August 2018 and ending  on 1 December 2018. I note it first told 
her this in September 2018 and then repeated its mistake in October 2018. As this is not in 
dispute, the only matter for me to consider is whether the offer of £300  represents fair 
compensation.
I know Mrs B considers Phoenix  Life is legally obliged to stand by the figures it sent to her in 
the letters from September  and October  2018.  Ultimately my role is to determine  Mrs Bs 
complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the case. And as a starting  point, a mistake  doesnt  generally create  an entitlement  to benefit 
from that mistake. To do so could  amount  to unjust enrichment. But if Mrs B had changed 
Ref: DRN00697152her position  in such a way that she was financially disadvantaged, then I think  it would be fair 
to seek to put her back in the same position  she wouldve been but for the error made by 
Phoenix Life.
 
Mrs B explained she only chose the monthly payment option as she calculated  shed  receive 
more than by taking the lump sum payment. The five monthly  payments  of £2,218 set out in 
Phoenix Life letters, wouldve meant Mrs B was due to receive a total of £11,090.  But what 
she received was four instalments of £2,218 and a final instalment of £875  a total of 
£9,747. I note if Mrs B opted for the lump sum payment, she wouldve received £9,656.  
Therefore, Mrs B was still in a better position by choosing the monthly payments. Given this, 
on balance, I think she wouldve made the same choice to opt for monthly payments as 
shed still receive more, albeit less than she was originally expecting. Im therefore  satisfied  
the error  didnt cause  Mrs B to alter her position to her detriment.
That said,  Im aware that Mrs B was caused unnecessary distress  by Phoenix Life at a time 
when she already had to deal with matters relating to the death of her husband.  But I can 
also see the matter  was discovered  and resolved within a relatively  short period of time.  And 
when making awards relating to unnecessary upset caused  by a business,  Im mindful of the 
levels of compensation  awarded in cases with similar circumstances. Having considered the 
events that occurred in this case, my view is £300 does represent fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B.
I appreciate Mr B is likely  to be disappointed  with my findings. Phoenix Life has told this 
service the offer is still open to her. So Ill leave it with Mrs B to decide whether she would 
like to accept Phoenix  Lifes offer of £300  compensation.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0069715