K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains about how National House-Building Council (NHBC) have handled her claim 
under her building  warranty  policy.
background
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point  that has been  made.
The issues  set out in this complaint relate directly to Ms C only. So this decision, and my 
findings, are based  on her individual circumstances.
Ms C has a Buildmark policy with NHBC.  She says shes been experiencing issues with the 
noise and vibrations coming from the shutter door for the buildings garage  which  is 
situated just below her property.
The issue  was raised with NHBC.  In December 2015 they inspected the shutter door and 
produced a resolution report  that said 
The noise is generated from the electric motor  mounted at the end of the shutter, the 
bracket to which the roller and motor  is fixed,  rests directly on the ceiling under the 
bedrooms. There appears to be no acoustic matting to resist  the passage  of noise/vibrations.
The roller shutter is missing its casing, and the boxing  around the motor  appears poorly 
installed and the likely  cause of the transference of any noise, given that it too is fixed 
directly to the ceiling  under the bedrooms.
NHBC said remedial work  needed  to be carried  out to comply with their technical 
requirements  and reduce the noise/vibration issues. The work  was carried  out and in 
May 2017 NHBC sent an acoustics and vibrations expert to inspect  the work. The expert 
said they were satisfied with the installations carried out by NHBC. But they were unable  to 
conclude it had they had been successful, as they were  unable to carry out tests - as Ms C 
wasnt home at the time
The tests  werent carried  out, but Ms C said NHBC signed the work off as completed.  She 
says she has continued to experience the same  noise and vibration issues  with the shutter. 
So, she doesnt feel the work  carried out has solved the issue.
NHBC said theyd completed  the work in line with their regulations. So as it met technical 
requirements, and further issues  relating to the noise/vibration  wasnt covered under the 
policy, they didnt  feel they needed to do anything more.
Ms C was unhappy with NHBCs  response, so she brought her complaint  to this service.  She 
said the ongoing issue with the shutter  door, and a lack of resolution, had caused her to 
suffer from stress,  anxiety and a loss of sleep.
Our investigator recommended we uphold Ms C complaint. She said the resolution report  
said work was needed  to reduce the noise and vibrations. Although NHBC  completed  the 
work, tests werent carried out to see if the work  had reduced the noise and vibrations  as 
recommended by their expert. 
Our investigator recommended NHBC pay Ms C £700 in compensation to recognise  the 
distress and inconvenience shed been  caused for the delays in testing the work.
Ref: DRN00114192NHBC didnt agree with our investigator. They said the testing was only a recommendation, 
and not a requirement, so they were  not obligated to carry this out.
The complaint has now passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A previous complaint  was raised by Ms C and NHBC provided  a final response for this in 
November 2016.  My decision focuses on events following  this up until NHBCs final 
response to Ms C in September 2018.  
Having done so, Im upholding  Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
NHBCs carried out the remedial work set out in the resolution report  to reduce the noise 
vibrations causing  the issues. NHBC then hired an independent expert in vibration  and 
acoustic systems to inspect the work in May 2017. In their report  the expert said the work 
had been installed  in a satisfactory  manner, but the new isolation measures  needed to be 
tested before they could say the issue was resolved. The test was unable to be carried out at 
the time as Ms C wasnt home.
 
But following  this NHBC didnt arrange for anyone  to carry out the test. They  said the works 
had been completed to technical specifications and the recommendations made in the 
reports were not requirements. I wouldnt expect  NHBC to carry out tests on all the work they 
complete. But where there is a clear  recommendation  from an expert they hired,  I think its 
reasonable they follow it to make sure the work put in place has resolved the issues. 
NHBCs resolution report recommended  work be carried out to reduce the noise and 
vibrations caused  by the shutter door.  And the expert has said without testing it cant  confirm  
this has been  achieved. So that makes  the testing a necessary part of carrying  out the 
recommendation of the resolution  report and wouldve at least provided the reassurance, 
particularly to Ms C, the work carried out had resolved the issues to a satisfactory standard.  
But as the tests werent carried out, its uncertain whether the issues  Ms C says she has 
continued to experience are due to the work  carried out by NHBC. So, I think NHBC should 
arrange for this to happen as soon  as possible and consider if further  action is needed based 
on its findings.
The testing may conclude the works have been sufficient in reducing  the noise and vibration. 
My findings  are not to reflect whether or not this is the case. However, I do need to consider 
the impact the testing  not being  carried out has had on Ms C. 
The report  from the independent expert was provided in May 2017,  so the recommendations 
have been outstanding for some time. Ms C told us the ongoing issues have caused 
significant impact on her mental health  and general  wellbeing. Without the testing Ms C has 
been left with the uncertainty of whether or not the issues she says shes still experiencing 
are related  to the work carried out to the shutter door. Or whether she needs to consider  
other alternatives if the noise reduction work was sufficient.
Ref: DRN00114193Taking this and the delays in carrying out tests into consideration, I think  its reasonable 
NHBC pay Ms C £700 compensation as this fairly represents the distress  and inconvenience 
she has been caused.
my final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint. To put things right I direct  
National House-Building Council to:
-Carry out testing  on vibration  isolation  work as recommended in the experts  report, 
and consider if further action is needed  based  on its findings
-Pay Ms C £700  compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0011419