K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about correspondence  he received from Sunlife Limited in April 2018  
inviting him to review  the total level of life cover he held under two policies hed taken  out in 
2014 and 2017 to cover funeral expenses.
 
He says the life cover  provided by his existing two policies was more than sufficient to cover  
his funeral costs  and Sunlifes current estimations of these expenses area were exaggerated 
and amounted to scare  tactics to persuade him to take out another  policy  unnecessarily.
Mr S says hes suffered  stress at the thought he was under-insured until he obtained  
evidence that Sunlife  had overstated the total cost of dying  in his area. He has cancelled 
his existing two policies because he took exception to Sunlife falsely encouraging him to 
take out further life cover  and also because  he doesnt  think  his existing policies offer value-
for-money. Hes requested a refund of the premiums hes paid to these two policies.
background
In 2014, in response to a direct marketing  campaign, Mr S took out an Over 50s Plan with 
Sunlife which  provided whole  life cover of £4,590 at a premium  of £23.00 per month.
In 2017, he responded to an invitation  to extend this cover  by £2,050 through a second  Plan 
at a monthly premium of £15.60, payable  for 15 years.
Mr S received a similar mailing in April 2018  encouraging him to review  his level of cover 
again, emphasising that the cost of dying  in his area was, on average, around  £10,500,  
including legal, and other ancillary,  expenses.
When Mr S decided  Sunlife had exaggerated this potential bill in order  to sell him another 
policy, he cancelled his two existing policies which cannot now be reinstated.
This complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who didnt think  it should be 
upheld.
With regard to Mr Ss comments that his two existing policies offer poor value, the 
adjudicator acknowledged that Mr S might ultimately  have paid more  in premiums to the 
policies than the life cover they provided if he lived to an elderly age. But thats the nature of 
any type of protection policy - they can pay a lump sum on death at any time, which  could be 
considerably more or less than the premiums paid, depending on when Mr S died. But this is 
no different to any other form of protection.
The adjudicator understood the point Mr S was making about the 2018 mailing. But he 
explained that our service  has no jurisdiction over the content of this marketing literature - 
this would be matter  for Mr S to take up with the industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority (FCA).
He noted that Mr S had cancelled his exiting two policies in response  to his concern about  
this latest mailing.  That was a decision Mr S was entitled to make even though he did say 
that they provided sufficient cover for his needs  and had already  been taken out before  the 
mailing to which he objected. And, as theyve provided life cover Mr S says he did require 
while they were in force, the adjudicator couldnt recommend that he receives a refund of 
premiums.
Ref: DRN01079242In response, Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators assessment and said hes obtained 
evidence from television advertisements that funeral costs were around  £3,500,  and not 
more than £10,000 as Sunlife had quoted.
Sunlife responded also by confirming that Mr S had been removed  from its mailing lists for 
future marketing campaigns in respect of this type of policy.
But, as no agreement has been  reached, Mr Ss complaint has been  referred  to me for 
review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S took out an Over 50s Plan in 2014, and in 2017, in response to a direct marketing 
campaign. He would not have received advice from Sunlife. Whether the policies were 
appropriate to meet his financial needs  was a matter for him to decide.
The aim of the policy  is to provide a fixed cash sum on death, for which Mr S paid a monthly 
premium throughout  his life (or for a limited period). By its nature and its objective to mitigate  
funeral costs, this type of policy is usually presented to elderly consumers to consider and 
will expect  to be retained for life. Accordingly,  they typically include a risk warning that the 
total premiums paid could exceed the amount payable on death if the policyholder  lives to an 
older age.
The Over 50s Plan provides cover like any other form of insurance, except other forms of 
protection might never become a claim. The two policies Mr S took out were  bound to pay 
£4,590 and £2,050  respectively  whenever  he died after the first two years, providing he 
maintained premium payments.
  
Its the very nature of life assurance, or any other form of protection, that the total premiums 
can eventually exceed the policy benefit  or the value of the item insured, if a claim doesnt 
arise under the policy for some time.  But, when he cancelled the two policies in 2018, Mr S 
hadnt reached that point. And, given  he wouldnt know  when he might  die, I cant  appreciate  
why hes decided that the policies wouldnt provide  value for money. As protection policies, 
they gave him peace of mind that they would pay a cash  sum on his death at any time after 
the first two years. 
As with all other forms of protection, Mr S shouldnt really compare the total premiums he 
paid with the level of cover  the policies provided because  he wont have  known in 2014, or in 
2017, when he might die and how many premium he would have paid before the policies 
paid their cash sums on his death. What Mr S needs  to consider is that each policy  premium 
was the price he paid for Sunlife to insure his life for £4,590 and £2,050  respectively.
Mr S hasnt complained  that the nature and terms of the Over 50s Plan itself wasnt  
presented to him by Sunlife in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading. His concern is 
that the correspondence he received in 2018 falsely encouraged him to review  the level of 
cover provided by his existing policies given rising funeral  costs.  Mr S was disturbed to see 
that Sunlife was implying there was a deficit of around £4,000 in the life cover provided by 
Ref: DRN01079243his two existing  policies given he saw a television  advertisement  by another insurer  that 
quoted average  funeral costs of around £3,500.        
Its not inappropriate for financial businesses to write  to its existing policyholders, 
encouraging them periodically to review  their life assurance needs. For the Over 50s Plan, 
this need would typically be in respect  of the changing  costs of funeral arrangements.
Having reviewed the correspondence Mr S received, its evident that Sunlife was keen to 
make him aware that not only were funeral costs rising but they went  beyond  the price  of the 
basic service,  taking  into account legal fees and ancillary costs which could give a total cost 
to Mr Ss estate of around £10,500.     
But this figure was quoted  for guidance  only. Sunlife wasnt advising Mr S that he had to take 
out additional cover. It was inviting him to consider whether he needed  to increase his 
existing life assurance provision to meet  all potential costs associated  with his funeral, and 
not just the cost of the basic service,  without his family having to draw  on funds from his 
estate. As in 2017,  it was for Mr S to decide  whether he had a need  for a greater capital sum 
to be paid on his death than his existing policies provided.
I dont think this justifies Mr S cancelling his two existing policies given he seems  to accept 
he does have a need to make provision for his funeral, even if he doesnt  feel he should 
account for ancillary  costs as well. As such, I cant award him a refund of premiums  to these 
two policies as they have  provided life cover  he himself decided in 2014 and 2017 he 
needed.  
But, if Mr S still feels the tone and contents  of the mailing from 2018 unfairly tried to 
convince him to take out further life cover  by overstating  his financial need, this is a matter 
he would  need  to take up with the industry regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority.     
      
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0107924