K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a conditional sale agreement financed  
by Close  Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (CBMF) wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. He wants Close Brothers  Limited to pay for the parts and programming   
of a replacement  steering  rack.
background
Mr D tells us he acquired  the vehicle in June 2018  from a dealer Ill call A. The recorded  
mileage at the time was 56,537 miles.  He says that he reported  a knocking noise after a 
few days but that upon inspection A claimed not to be able to find this. Mr D says he 
complained to CBMF who arranged  for the vehicle to be inspected. Although this inspection 
revealed a fault with the steering rack - it said it hadnt been  present at the point of supply. 
Mr D says hes had the vehicle inspected again  by an independent  garage,  a company Ill 
call C. And he says C has confirmed the noise is present  and that it wouldnt have been 
picked up at an MOT test.
CBMF told us that following Mr Ds complaint the vehicle was examined by an independent 
company, Ill refer to as K. It said K had examined the vehicle  and confirmed there was a 
knocking noise  from the steering rack. And that it (K) felt this should be replaced. But it said 
K had said as the vehicle had covered over 1,300 miles since  supply - and the fault was not 
identified in the vehicles MOT history - it didnt think the fault was present  at the point  of 
supply.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said that K had found  
the fault wasnt present at the point of supply and hadnt been  picked up in a MOT  which had 
been carried out on 6 June 2018.  And he said that the damage could have been caused in 
numerous ways  such as hitting kerbs or going over potholes. As such he couldnt  say when 
the damage had occurred.
Mr D didnt agree with this outcome and said hed produced evidence  from another  garage 
to show the fault wouldnt  have been  picked up at a MOT test. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr D has experienced  issues with the vehicle and I understand his concern.
Mr Ds conditional sale agreement is a regulated  consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. CBMF  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Ref: DRN02140562Briefly summarised, this states that theres  an implied condition in every contract to supply 
goods that they will be of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. And satisfactory quality is 
defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. Where goods 
are identified within the first six months  after supply as not complying with contract its 
presumed they did not comply at the point of supply - unless its otherwise established.  And 
this means a customer may be able to reject  an item or require the supplier of those goods 
to repair  an item that is found not to be of satisfactory quality within this period.
Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say I have to decide what I think is the 
most likely explanation for whats happened.
Mr D reported a knocking noise shortly after acquiring the vehicle. Whilst A said it couldnt  
identify this noise,  an independent inspection by K confirmed its presence.  But K went on to 
say that - whilst it thought  the steering rack (the cause of the noise) should be replaced - it 
didnt think the fault was present at the point of supply.  It appears from Ks report  that part of 
the reason it determined  the fault wasnt present  at the point of supply was that thered been 
no report or advisory from an MOT test carried out shortly before the vehicle was supplied to 
Mr D. At the time of Ks report the recorded mileage  was 57,878 miles.
Mr D has now supplied evidence from a different source, a company which Ill refer to as C. 
C carried out a pre MOT inspection on 7 March  2019.  It reported:
Pre mot and inspection  of steering carried out today at our garage.  On inspection of your
vehicle the car would have passed a mot with no advisory as of 07/03/19.
On road test slight knock from O/S/F was heard and on further inspection  the knock  is
coming from inside  the steering rack. All steering arms look to be original and free from
damage, no damage to wheels and tyres are in good condition  with no cracks or damage
to side walls. The vehicle tracks ok.
This fault would not be picked up on a mot and only found under further investigation.
I can see the vehicle  later passed an MOT on 14 March 2019. The mileage  at that time was 
recorded as 64,705 miles.
The overall balance  of the evidence  points to the existence of a knocking noise close to the 
time the vehicle was supplied to Mr D. The first time Mr D seems to have reported  it is on 20 
June 2018. But this doesnt  necessarily  mean  the vehicle  wasnt  of satisfactory quality. This 
was a four year old vehicle which had covered over 56,000 miles  when supplied  to Mr D. I 
wouldnt expect it to be perfect condition or fault free at this point in its life cycle. All vehicles 
are at some stage going to start exhibiting signs of age related wear and tear.
The description of the noise from the two independent reports  varies from K describing a 
loud noise to Cs report referring to a slight knock.  But I think of more relevance  is 
whether the vehicle was safe and able to be used as intended.
The vehicle passed an MOT without  advisories on 6 June 2018  and nine months later, after 
it had covered around another  8,000 miles, it again  passed without advisories.  This seems to 
indicate that the vehicle  was - irrespective  of the noise - mechanically sound. I can also infer 
it was safe, as I doubt if Mr D - who I understand has a good  knowledge of motor vehicles - 
wouldve driven it for this sort of distance if hed had any doubts.  
Ref: DRN02140563The other point  I have to consider is that issues with a steering  rack can be caused by 
outside factors such as impact with kerbs  or potholes. Im not saying this is whats happened 
but given theres  no information as to what exactly caused the noise, this also makes it 
difficult to say when  it occurred.
The information with which  Ive been  supplied doesnt suggest the performance or safety of 
the vehicle has been compromised  by the knocking noise. And as its subsequently passed  
an MOT test, I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to say the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment 
to Mr D, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0214056