K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC ought  to have stopped  him from falling  victim to an 
investment scam. He wants Barclays to refund the payment he was tricked into making.
Background
Mr D holds several accounts with Barclays. On 8 February 2019 he went  into his local
branch to make a payment  to what he thought was a legitimate investment company for the
purchase of commercial bonds.
Mr D came across  a website for what he thought  was an investment company. The website
was in fact spoofed and set up by scammers. Mr D says the website was convincing and the
company named on it is indeed a real investment company but does not have retail  investors  
as customers.
Mr D entered into email dialogue  with a person claiming to be an investment manager for the
company. The emails this person sent used the name  of an employee  of the real company.
Mr D agreed to purchase what he thought were commercial bonds issued by a well-known
car retailer to the sum of £50,000. He completed  an application form and sent it to the
company by email.  He was given the account  details and went into his Barclays  branch
to make payment  via CHAPS.
Barclays say Mr D is well known to them, as he is a regular  customer in branch. It says he
was served by two branch staff and according  to a statement provided by the
branch, an extensive  conversation took place.  The statements  say Mr D wanted  to make
an investment because he was dissatisfied with the interest rate on his account.
After the payment was made, Mr D expected an email from the investment company to 
confirm receipt later that day. When this failed  to arrive, he became concerned. He rang the
real investment company who confirmed hed been scammed. The real investment
companys website has a webpage detailing the scam. The company said it had reported
its concerns to the Financial Conduct  Authority.
Mr D rang Barclays  the same day to report the scam to see if the payment could be
retrieved. He thought there was still a chance  the payment  hadnt  yet been processed  due to
his prior experience  working in the industry.  Barclays contacted the receiving  bank on
11 February 2019 and chased the bank again  on 14 February 2019.  The receiving
bank responded  and confirmed no funds remained in the account, and the funds were
withdrawn prior to Mr D reporting  his concerns to Barclays.
Mr D complained to Barclays. He says Barclays ought to have checked the investment
before allowing the payment, particularly as this was a known scam, and it was under a duty
to protect  him. Barclays rejected the brunt  of his complaint. It says Mr D is an experienced
investor and well known  to staff, so the payment wasnt unusual for him, and it wasnt on
notice to do more  than it did. It had tried its best to retrieve  the funds.
Barclays did offer £250 to compensate Mr D for misinforming him that he would be refunded
the payment when  he first reported  his concerns.
Ref: DRN04820352Mr D referred  his complaint to our service. An investigator decided not to uphold  the
complaint. They found the transaction wasnt unusual for Mr D, and Barclays  had no reason 
to suspect the investment wasnt genuine.  Barclays notes indicate two of their staff spoke 
with Mr D about whether  he was aware of potential  investment scams and whether he was 
pressured into the transaction. The notes indicated Mr D wanted  to make the payment 
because he wanted  a better return  on his funds. The investigator also found the offer of £250 
was enough to compensate Mr D for the disappointment he was caused when he realised he 
wouldnt receive a refund despite initially being  told he would.
Mr D disagreed with the outcome the investigator  reached and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. I considered his complaint in November 2020 and decided to provisionally 
uphold it. I said:
A banks principal duty is to obey the mandate of its customer. And under the Payment  
Services Regulations 2017 a payment service user  in this case Mr D  is liable for any 
payment they authorise (consent to). Under the regulations, it doesnt  matter whether the 
payment was made as a result  of being tricked  or scammed.
The above  doesnt mean, however, that a bank must execute every  authorised  payment 
instruction it receives.  Under the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Principles for Businesses,  a 
firm needs to conduct business with due skill and care and also pay due regard to the 
interests of its customer. And in law, a firm can be liable for a payment if it had good reason 
to believe it represents  the misappropriation of its customers funds.
Its established industry practice that firms take measures to detect  and prevent customers  
from falling  victim to fraud or scams when appropriate. Indeed,  the BSI code  which Barclays  
helped form, requires  banks to monitor payments or account activity for unusual  or 
suspicious behaviour  across all payment channels. Furthermore, the banking protocol  also 
requires a firm to act when it has reason to believe a customer  is about  to fall victim to a 
crime by making a payment in branch.
Barclays say it didnt  apply the banking protocol to Mr Ds situation, as he is well known to 
branch staff due to his regular custom. But Barclays still needed  to take reasonable steps to 
protect Mr Ds interests and ask a sufficient amount of questions to be satisfied he wasnt at 
risk of fraud,  particularly considering the size of the payment Mr D wanted  to make and it 
being a payment for an investment. This is even more the case  if Barclays had a concern 
about the payment.
Barclays has provided two statements from the branch where Mr D was served. The 
statements say two branch staff dealt with Mr D and an extensive conversation  took place. 
So, it follows  that branch staff must  have had some concern about the payment for the 
conversation to be described  in this manner. I understand  why. By most measures £50,000 
is a substantial sum, even  if Mr D had made investments in the past. And Mr D choosing  to 
make the payment by CHAPS, rather than bank transfer, indicated he wanted to make the 
investment urgently  which by itself is a concern.
Its important to recognise a retail  consumer who invests can still fall prey to a sophisticated 
Ref: DRN04820353scam. So merely having knowledge of Mr Ds previous dealings isnt a reason to not ask 
proper and sufficient  questions about  the particular investment he wanted to make. Barclays 
after all are well placed to understand the multitude of sophisticated scams that exist, and 
that spoofing established investment firms is a known method to trick even experienced 
investors. I dont think the same knowledge could be imputed to Mr D.
Branch staff recall a conversation with Mr D that was clearly more than minor.  So, I will take 
their word  that such a conversation took place. The branch hasnt kept a detailed  record of 
the questions  Mr D was asked, which is surprising given how the conversation  is described, 
and the large  sum involved. Instead, only brief contact notes were recorded, which only 
indicate Mr D was asked  whether  he was aware of potential  scams, whether he was 
pressured, and that he still wanted  to make the payment.
The contact  notes dont  however demonstrate that Mr D was asked pre-eminent questions,  
such as what the specific investment  was, and what actions had he taken to assure himself 
the investment  wasnt a scam. These are reasonable questions to ask of any customer  
wanting to make an investment. And the questions are relevant irrespective of whether that 
customer has prior investment experience  or not.
I doubt branch  staff did ask Mr D what hed done to check the investment  wasnt  a scam,  or 
even how he knew it wasnt a scam. He clearly  hadnt looked  into it at that point, given how 
quickly he discovered it was a scam once he hadnt heard back  from the scammer. And had 
Mr D been asked these  questions, Ive no evidence to suggest he wouldnt have answered 
truthfully.
So, if Barclays had asked  the right questions, I find it wouldve found out Mr D hadnt done 
anything to determine whether the investment was a scam. I find at this point, Barclays 
ought to have made sure to emphasise to Mr D how investment scams can present as very 
genuine. And it ought to have advised  him to check the investment wasnt a scam before 
proceeding, given the size and form of the payment he wanted to make  (CHAPS).  Mr D may 
not have felt pressured to make the payment,  but the emails  hed received  from the 
scammer did say the opportunity to purchase the bonds was about  to expire. And Barclays  
would know giving a short deadline is a known tactic  of scammers.
I doubt Mr D wouldve wanted to leave the branch  to check  whether the investment was a 
scam, given  the deadline to purchase the bonds. So, in this context, it wouldve been  
important to ask Mr D to check whether the investment could be a scam while he was 
present before proceeding any further.
It wouldve  also been reasonable for one of the members of staff to briefly  check  if the 
investment was a known  scam online, being  as they say they were conversing with Mr D on 
the payment in some depth. And had Mr D or one of the branch staff performed a cursory 
online search using  the name of the investment  product  or the name of investment firm and 
the term scam, it wouldve been apparent  Mr D was falling victim to a well-publicised scam. 
There is a wealth of online  information  that reveal the scam.
So, Im satisfied that if Barclays had done  what is shouldve,  the scam wouldve  been 
discovered. And I find this wouldve either resulted in Mr D withdrawing his payment 
instruction or in Barclays refusing  to execute the payment
Ref: DRN04820354Barclays say Mr D shouldve conducted  his own research.  But Ive looked  at the information 
Mr D received from the scammer.  And I find it convincing. The firms  name is that of an 
established investment  company; the application  form he completed has a professional 
layout, containing  much of the information  a consumer   even one with investment 
experience  would expect; and the emails  he received dont arouse suspicion  they are 
professionally worded  and look genuine. Indeed, the name on the emails  matches  that of an 
employee of the real firm.
Mr D has some investment experience, but this doesnt  mean  he understands scams in the 
same way Barclays does. And given  the persuasive  interactions he had with the scammer,  I 
understand why he wasnt  concerned until he failed to hear back  from them. I find him not 
checking whether  the investment was a scam doesnt negate Barclays responsibilities  
towards him. And I remain satisfied that Barclays didnt take the steps  it shouldve,  which  
would otherwise have prevented Mr D from being  scammed.
Barclays offered £250 to compensate Mr D for mis-informing him that he would  be refunded 
the payment.  I appreciate Mr D discovering  this was incorrect wouldve been troubling and 
disappointing. But I find the offer is a proportionate sum to make up for the poor customer 
service he experienced  on this singular point.
To put things right, Barclays should:
Refund Mr D the £50,000  payment.
 Pay Mr D 8% simple  interest per annum on that sum up from the point the payment 
was made until the point it refunds  him.
Pay Mr D its offer of £250  to compensate  him for being misinformed he would receive 
a refund, unless  this has already  been  paid.
Mr D accepted my findings,  but Barclays did not. In summary it has said:
It has sought advice  from an industry body.
Its unreasonable to expect branch  staff to conduct an online investigation whenever 
a customer comes  in to make a payment for an investment.
Mr D ought to have  researched whether the investment  was a scam beforehand,  
especially considering  his prior investment  experience.
Making a payment  in branch for £50,000  can only be done by CHAPS,  so this wasnt 
a trigger for staff to be concerned.
Two staff members  are required to process  a payment of this size, so this didnt  
indicate an elevated  level of concern. Staff need to ask questions of customers  to 
see if there is a concern  about a payment. Based  on Mr Ds responses,  the branch 
staff werent concerned  about the payment, so they didnt implement the banking  
protocol.
Ref: DRN04820355Ive now received responses from both Mr D and Barclays on this matter. Having considered 
them in full, I am now ready to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ds complaint 
for the same reasons  I gave in my provisional  decision. Those findings are repeated above 
and form part of this decision.
Barclays say its unreasonable to expect  branch staff to conduct  an online investigation 
every time a customer comes  into branch  to make a payment  for an investment. But this isnt 
the finding I made. Instead, I found this wouldve been a reasonable action for Barclays  to 
take in Mr Ds circumstances.
Mr D was making a very large payment in branch for an investment. At the very least  I find 
Barclays ought to have asked Mr D the details  of how he came to make  the investment or 
what he had done  to ensure it wasnt a scam. I dont find these are unreasonable questions 
to ask, given Barclays  ought to know how convincing investment scams can be, and how 
prevalent they are. Ive seen no evidence  to indicate  Barclays ought only to ask questions  of 
this kind to customers without investment experience. And I cant see Barclays records  
demonstrate it did ask Mr D these important questions.
If Mr D had been asked  questions about  what hed done to check the investment was 
genuine, he wouldve  likely revealed he hadnt  done anything.  Ive seen no reason to doubt 
he wouldnt  have answered  all Barclays questions truthfully.  At this point, Barclays  ought  to 
have become concerned. I find it shouldve at least asked Mr D to check  online that the 
investment wasnt a known scam. And it wouldve  also been  appropriate  for one of its staff to 
have done this while dealing with Mr D.
Barclays say Mr D shouldve conducted  due diligence on the investment he wanted to make  
before asking Barclays to make the payment. But Im satisfied the information Mr D received 
from the scammer convinced him he was dealing with a genuine  firm. The application  form 
he received contained all the information  an experienced investor would expect, including  
appropriately worded regulatory and company information; the tone and layout of the emails 
from the scammer was professional; and the name used by the scammer is that of a genuine 
employee of the real investment  firm. 
Mr D doesnt appear  to have been  the victim  of an investment scam before. And Im satisfied 
his prior investment experience didnt mean  he understood  how sophisticated investment 
scams may present and that real investment firms can be convincingly spoofed.  So, I dont 
find Mr D not performing due diligence overrides  Barclays  responsibilities  towards him.
Barclays say the payment  of £50,000 needed  to be by CHAPS. So, the fact Mr D made  a 
CHAPS payment wasnt a concern. But Barclays limits on when CHAPS payments apply 
shouldnt stop them considering why Mr D wanted  to make a CHAPS payment - after all he 
may not have been aware of Barclays policy. 
Barclays should know scammers often request payment by CHAPs to receive  funds quickly  
and reduce the risk of the scam  being discovered  before  receipt. It should also be aware 
that, where possible,  customers want to avoid the additional  cost that comes with making a 
CHAPS payment. So, requesting a CHAPs payment for an investment could indicate a 
Ref: DRN04820356customer believes there is a pressing need to make  the investment, which Barclays ought to 
explore further  being as scammers  often pressure their victims.
Barclays say its branch staff didnt  have concerns about the payment. But the staff described 
their conversation with Mr D as extensive,  which implies they were wary about  the payment 
he wanted to make. However, this point  isnt particularly relevant to the outcome I have 
reached. This is because I still find that had Barclays  asked the right questions,  it wouldve 
been on notice  that nothing had been done to check the investment wasnt  a scam. This 
ought to have then become a concern for Barclays.
On balance, I find that had Barclays done  what it shouldve,  its very likely the scam wouldve 
been discovered - there is a wealth of information about the scam online. And I find the 
payment wouldnt  have gone  ahead  as a result.
I still find Barclays offer of £250 for misinforming Mr D that he would receive a refund when 
he first raised his concerns is reasonable. Im satisfied its a proportionate sum to 
compensate him for the disappointment he was caused when this turned out to not be true. I 
further direct  Barclays to:
Refund Mr D the £50,000  payment and any CHAPS fee associated with it.
Pay Mr D 8% simple  interest per annum on the above sum from the point the 
payment was made until the point it refunds him.
Pay Mr D its offer of £250  to compensate  him for being misinformed he would receive
a refund, unless this has already been  paid.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  and I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mr D 
redress in line what Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2021.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0482035