K820x#14complaint
Mr E is complaining about a car finance  agreement he had with Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS). 
background
Mr E acquired a car from a dealership using a hire purchase (HP) agreement  through MBFS 
on 30 July 2015.  He moved  addresses and let the dealership know,  believing theyd  tell the 
finance company   the dealership and MBFS are separate companies. MBFS say they sent 
a maturity pack to Mr E at the address they held to remind him the finance agreement  was 
coming to an end in July 2018. 
That notice was sent to Mr Es old address  as MBFS hadnt been updated. Mr E only 
realised the agreement was ending when  a representative sought to arrange  collection of the 
car. He complained  to MBFS and tried to arrange  an extension to the finance.  Hes said hes 
subsequently been hounded by the action company  to return the car.
MBFS issued their final response in September 2018 and said they needed at least  30 days 
remaining on the existing  agreement to be able to provide a quote for refinance. As the 
agreement had expired, MBFS couldnt  provide a full refinance  quote. But they offered to 
arrange a four-month extension which would then allow them to quote for a longer-term 
refinance. Alternatively, they said that if Mr E wished to return the car, theyd write off the 
additional charges up to 20 September  2018 (approximately two months  after the agreement 
had expired).
Mr E was unhappy with the proposals  and referred his complaint to us. Mr E wanted 
refinance proposals without the need  for the four-month  extension. He also raised some 
issues regarding the quality of the car in 2015,  but these had been looked  into at the time 
and dealt with by MBFS in a final response dated  16 June 2016. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and explained that he felt that MBFS offer was a 
fair one in the circumstances. The options available to Mr E were  to:
1. return the car
2. buy the car
3. enter a short extension to the finance  so that MBFS could quote  for longer 
term finance. MBFS said that they would cover  two months of payments if the 
longer term refinance quote  was accepted, or, if not, they would cover the 
costs of additional day charges from 30 July 2018  (when the finance 
agreement expired)  until 20 September 2018. 
Since then,  there have  been attempts to put a temporary extension in place, but these have 
been unsuccessful. As theres been no agreement, Mr Es complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01604602Some of the issues  Mr E raised  relate  to the quality of the car he acquired and some  work he 
had to do to bring  the it up to standard which he felt should have  been  covered by the 
warranty. I can see from the file that he went to a lot of effort  to get things put right. But as 
Ive said above,  MBFS sent a final response letter to him in June 2016  in which they said 
the retailer has provided an amicable  resolution  to your concerns and that you are satisfied 
by this outcome.  They also told Mr E that if he wasnt satisfied he had the right to refer his 
complaint to us within six months. Ive explained to Mr E separately  why I dont think we 
have the power  to consider the quality issues he complained about.
Ive read the credit  agreement Mr E signed  on 30 July 2015. In it, he agrees to make 35 
payments of £291.27  starting from 30 August 2015.  The agreement  says that the 36th 
payment due was for £15,650  to purchase the car from MBFS, plus a £10 purchase 
activation fee. Alternatively,  he could  return the car to MBFS. The agreement was based on 
the car travelling up to 10,000 miles per year, so 30,000 by the end of the agreement. If the 
car travelled further, then an excess mileage charge would be due if the car was returned.  
The agreement also makes clear  that the car should be maintained  in a condition which is 
consistent with the attached Vehicle Return Standards.  
It is clear from the credit  agreement  that a total of 36 monthly payments were  to be made, so 
the final payment   or the return of the car - was due on 30 July 2018. Mr E entered  into the 
contract on that basis. 
MBFS say they wrote  to Mr E at the address  they had for him to in advance  of the 
agreement coming  to an end. But as Mr E had moved in the meantime, he didnt receive  this 
letter and it was only when he was contacted by phone, that he realised the situation. 
Mr E tells us he updated the dealership who sold the car with his new address. He says he 
assumed the dealers would update MBFS. The dealer has no obligation to pass on 
information to MBFS   but Mr E did. Section 4.4 of the credit agreement  Mr E signed  says 
You will tell us immediately if you change your address . 
More recently, Mr Es told me that he also contacted MBFS directly by telephone to change  
his address. MBFS have  said the employee he says he spoke to, left the company more 
than three  years ago. Clearly, if he did contact them, as MBFS say they had his old address 
on file, they didnt update  his details properly. In any event, I think  it was clear to Mr E in July 
2018 that his agreement  was expiring and MBFS explained what needed to happen is he 
wished to refinance the outstanding amount.  
When Mr E contacted MBFS after the situation  had come to light,  the business  offered to put 
a short  extension to the finance  in place to enable  them to assess  a longer-term  
arrangement. The hire purchase  agreement Mr E entered into with MBFS doesnt  place an 
obligation on the business to extend the finance. 
When the complaint  was with our investigator, MBFS made some offers  for short  term 
extensions. But unfortunately, no agreement could be reached  on the short-term 
arrangement, so the longer-term one couldnt follow on. I think  MBFS acted  fairly  in trying to 
put an extension  in place at the time although they did make  some mistakes in the 
paperwork they prepared.  But given the time elapsed since the agreement  came to an end, 
they are no longer prepared to extend  the agreement. I dont think  this is unreasonable.
Ive asked MBFS to tell me when the auction company have contacted Mr E to recover the 
vehicle. They say the auction room  attempted contact  twice  in August 2018  and spoke to 
him once  and spoke  to him again  once in September 2018.  They  tried to call him once in 
Ref: DRN01604603February 2019 but didnt get through. They were  then advised by MBFS not to chase further. 
I dont think the contact from the auction company is unreasonable  in the circumstances. 
The current  situation  is that Mr E has told me he still has the car and has not made any 
payments since the agreement expired  in July 2018. MBFS are prepared  to sell the car to 
Mr E at the price quoted  in the finance agreement,  or for him to return the car together with 
the monthly payments of £291.27 from July 2018.  I think this is fair as its what he would 
have been expected to pay had he bought the car at the end of the agreement,  or if the 
agreement had lasted  until now. 
If Mr E decides to return the car to MBFS, they will allow the annual mileage for the 
extended period,  and it should still meet the Vehicle Return Standards agreed.  MBFS have 
agreed to stand by their offer to waive two monthly  instalments of £291.27. 
As both the options involve Mr E paying a substantial amount of money to MBFS, Ive 
contacted him separately about  the sums involved  rather than specifying them  here. 
While there  are things which, in hindsight, could have been done  differently by both parties 
in this dispute, the current situation  is that Mr E still has possession  and use - of a car 
which, under  the hire purchase agreement, belongs to MBFS. Hes not made any payments 
for the car for some time now,  and I think the offer made by MBFS - to waive two payments 
totalling £582.54 if he wishes to return it to them  is fair in the circumstances.  
Alternatively, if Mr E wishes to buy the car, I think its reasonable that he should pay the 
money he agreed to pay MBFS  for it  that is £15,660. I note that MBFS hasnt added 
interest to this sum and hasnt taken action  to repossess the car at this stage.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I think Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  offer to waive 
two months payments is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Mr E now needs to work 
with the business to either buy or return the car and pay the sums due as a result.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0160460