K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Debt Managers  (Services) Limited (DMS)  hasnt updated her credit  
file correctly.
background
Miss B had a store card with shop N. Shop N registered a default against  Miss B in 
September 2014. In 2016, Shop N sold the debt to DMS. DMS explained to Miss B that there  
was an outstanding balance of £74.37 on her account. Miss B says she agreed  a repayment 
plan of £10 per month and she said she paid this for five months as agreed.  She believed 
the debt had then been settled.
Recently, Miss B has been  looking to apply for a mortgage. She has found out she has an 
outstanding debt with DMS and that this has affected her credit  file. She complained  to DMS 
as she felt she shouldnt  have an outstanding balance on her credit file and that this is what  
is preventing her from being able to apply successfully for a mortgage.
DMS explained that there was an outstanding  balance of £24.37 on her account, if she 
repaid this it would  show  the debt as fully satisfied. However it also explained that it didnt 
register the default against her, and that any default  would  remain  on her credit file for six 
years.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He explained that DMS wasnt  responsible  for 
registering the default against  Miss B and explained that this would remain on her account  
for six years. He also explained  that there  was nothing  to suggest the credit file wasnt  
accurate. It appeared that Miss B did still owe £24.37.
Miss B disagreed. She explained that she set up her repayment plan by direct debit and 
when this stopped she wasnt notified that she had an outstanding balance. She also 
believes that it is this outstanding balance  of £24.37 that is affecting  her credit file as the 
debt should have been shown as satisfied some time ago. She asked  for an ombudsmans 
decision so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for similar reasons to the investigator. 
default
The default  in relation  to this account  was applied to Miss Bs credit  file in 2014  by the 
original creditors. This will remain on Miss Bs credit  file for six years. It wasnt DMS that 
registered this default. But I can see it has told Miss B that the default is due to remain on 
there for six years from the date it was registered.  This is usual practice  for defaults  
registered on credit files.
outstanding balance
Miss B believes that she had repaid  her debt  and the fact that £24.37  remains  outstanding 
is the reason that shes unable to successfully  apply for a mortgage. But I cant see any 
Ref: DRN02685092evidence to suggest Miss B was told she had satisfied her debt.  I can see that in 2016 DMS 
agreed with Miss B to a repayment plan to repay £74.37. It was agreed that she would pay 
£10 per month for six months and then a final payment of £4.37. But it looks  like Miss B only 
paid five of her repayments, so the outstanding balance of £24.37 is correct.
Miss B says she paid by direct debit and when this stopped she believed the debt to have 
been settled. But I cant see that she set up a direct debit, it appears  she paid her 
instalments manually and on different dates each  month. Ive considered the file notes that 
DMS has sent us and theres no record of Miss B being told her debt would  be settled after 
repaying £50.
I understand the frustration Miss B must feel being  in the position of trying  to buy a property, 
but from what I can see her credit file is accurate in relation to this debt.  I can also see that 
over the year that Miss B spent complaining to DMS it informed her that she would have to 
repay the outstanding debt to have  the account  marked as fully settled on her credit file. But 
I dont think this is the only reason she isnt able to get a mortgage,  she has a default in 
relation to this account, which will remain on her credit file until next year  after six years of 
it being there. Repaying the money owed  wouldnt  remove this default any earlier. 
In summary  I dont think that DMS has made  an error on Miss Bs credit file.
complaint handling
I have noted Miss Bs complaints  about  the communication  she received from DMS during 
her complaint, and the time it took for her to get a response. But complaint handling isnt 
something that is regulated, and so isnt something  I have the power to consider. But I can 
see that DMS kept her updated and gave her the opportunity to contact this organisation at 
the point it needed to. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0268509