K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with U K Insurance Limiteds decision to only pay part of a claim 
made under their travel  insurance  policy. Theyre also unhappy with the way in which  their 
claim was handled.
background
Mr and Mrs H booked a holiday abroad. Before they were due to go on that holiday Mr H had 
reason to visit his GP surgery on 4 April 2018. One of the things he wanted to discuss was a 
change in his bowel  movements and bleeding  from his rectum. The GP said it would refer 
him to a specialist so that this issue could  be looked  into further.
Under Mr and Mrs Hs travel insurance  policy, theyre not covered once they reach the age 
of 70, unless an age extension is purchased. Mr H had turned 70 in July 2017.  And Mrs H 
bought an age extension for him on 5 April 2018  a day after hed visited the GP.
Mr H attended a hospital appointment on 18 April 2018 and he was diagnosed with rectal 
cancer on 24 April 2018. Because  Mr H was required  to undergo extensive treatment for this 
condition Mr and Mrs H had to cancel  their holiday.  They were able to get some  money  back 
from the holiday provider  but that still left them over £11,000 out of pocket. So they sought  to 
claim under their travel insurance policy.
It took UKI around four months to pay Mr and Mrs H half of the amount they were claiming 
for. It says it wont pay Mr Hs half of the holiday costs being claimed for because  at the time 
the age extension was taken out for him in April 2018 hed already been to see his GP and 
the issue he was having with his bowels was under investigation. So it says the condition 
was pre-existing.  And this ultimately  led to the reason why their holiday had to be cancelled.
UKI accept  that the handling  of Mr and Mrs Hs claim fell below the standard  expected. It 
says it did, at times, unnecessarily delay matters and didnt update Mr and Mrs H about their 
claim when  they shouldve  leading them to make a number of unnecessary  calls to find out 
what was going  on. UKI has offered £100 by way of compensation for these things.
Mr and Mrs H think their claim should be paid in full. They dont think  £100  fairly 
compensates them  for the trouble and upset UKI has caused them.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagree. Theyve 
raised several points  in reply. Their complaint has now been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to ask UKI 
to do anything more.  I know Mr and Mrs H will be very disappointed by this but I hope theyll  
understand my reasons   which I set out below.
declining the claim
Mr and Mrs Hs policy will only operate whilst theyre  under the age of 70, unless theyve 
bought an age extension.  Mr H turned 70 in July 2017. Although  Mr and Mrs H say theyre 
Ref: DRN03474492not sure when Mrs H bought the age extension for Mr H, Ive heard the recording of a call 
she had with UKIs representatives on 5 April 2018 during which the age extension  was 
purchased. So Im satisfied it was then. 
That means between  July 2017  and 4 April 2018 Mr H wasnt  covered by the insurance  
policy. But he became  insured on 5 April 2018. The policy says when a person becomes 
insured or when  a person books their trip (whichever is later) they must tell UKI about each 
pre-existing medical condition they wish to be covered for. 
A pre-existing condition  includes  any medical condition which is under investigation or 
awaiting diagnosis.
I know Mr H says that as at 5 April 2018  he didnt have a diagnosis  of rectal  cancer   which  I 
accept. He also says the GP didnt give him much advice and was vague when telling Mr H 
why he was referring him to a specialist. But I think the referral his GP was going to make  to 
the specialist was to investigate the reasons why Mr H bowel movements  had changed and 
why he was bleeding from his rectum. This is supported by the GP telling UKI that he made 
the decision to refer Mr H to a specialist for further  assessment, evaluation  and 
investigation 
So Im satisfied Mr H had a pre-existing condition, as defined by the policy,  at the time the 
age extension was bought  because  he was under investigation for the issues  he was having 
with his bowels.  
Mr H says that after hed seen the GP on 4 April 2018 he didnt tell Mrs H about the GP 
appointment or that he was being referred to a hospital. So when she called to purchase the 
age extension on 5 April 2018 she wouldnt have known anything about  this condition, so 
couldnt have  mentioned  it when  asked. That might be the case.  But even if Mrs H didnt 
know about anything  then - and couldnt have told UKI about any medical issues  that were  
being investigated - the policy says it wont cover the costs of a holiday being cancelled  for 
anything connected  with a pre-existing condition.
Mr and Mrs H cancelled their holiday because Mr H was required to undergo  treatment for 
rectal cancer. Mr H was under investigation for the issues he was having with his bowels 
before the policy started.  So I dont  think UKI has acted unreasonably by declining  Mr Hs 
part of the holiday  costs on the basis that his condition was pre-existing at the time the policy  
started. 
the service Mr and Mrs H received
I can see that Mrs H, and in particular Mr H, was put to the trouble of contacting  UKI when  
he didnt receive  updates  he was promised. He was also told on occasions that the claim 
would be paid and was awaiting authorisation. But when the entire  costs  being claimed for 
werent authorised  no-one told Mr and Mrs H, and they had to chase again. It also took a 
number of months for Mrs Hs half of the holiday costs to be paid and UKI couldve told 
Mr and Mrs H sooner  about their claim for half of Mr Hs holiday  costs  being declined.
UKI has paid Mr and Mrs H £100 to compensate them  for this. I think  that fairly compensates  
them for the trouble they were put through chasing UKI for replies and the disappointment 
they wouldve  felt by not being told earlier about Mr Hs half of the costs not being covered.  
But ultimately they wouldve still been  disappointed  by that decision.
Ref: DRN03474493Mr H says that the £100 offered is only a little more than the cost of the GP report  that UKI 
asked him to obtain. And it hasnt reimbursed  him for this. But the policy says the 
policyholder will meet the costs of all evidence UKI needs in order to consider a claim under 
the policy. So I dont  think UKI has acted unfairly  or unreasonably by not reimbursing 
Mr and Mrs H for the report fee. 
my final decision
UK Insurance Limited  dont have to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0347449