K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about the loans he took out through MYJAR Limited. He says the loans 
were not affordable. 
Background
Mr J took five loans from MYJAR between  November 2015 and May 2016.  A summary of   
Mr Js borrowing is shown below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmountInstalments Highest  
repayment
1 11/11/2015 29/11/2015 £100 1 £115.20
2 03/12/2015 30/12/2015 £350 1 £428.40
3 11/01/2016 04/02/2016 £375 3 £197.74
4 25/04/2016 26/04/2016 £275 1 £283.80
5 22/05/2016 16/05/2017 £1650 12 £257.50
The adjudicator concluded from the information that MYJAR had, that it had become 
apparent that by loan 5 Mr J would have struggled  to make his repayments.
MYJAR didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions  for loan 5. So as both parties are still not 
in agreement, the complaint has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.  If 
Mr J accepts my findings it will be legally binding  on both parties.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr J could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN07045802refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loans 1-4. This was early on in the lending 
relationship between the two parties and the loan repayments for each one of these loans 
seemed affordable based on what Mr J had told MYJAR. So I dont think MYJAR was wrong  
to give these four loans  to Mr J.
However, by the fifth loan it would have been clear to MYJAR that Mr J was showing signs 
that he was struggling  to repay his borrowing. I say this because:
Loan 5 was for £1650.  This amount was for significantly more than any of the loans  Mr J 
took out with MYJAR. He also asked for this loan to be repaid over a much longer time 
frame of 12 months.
This was Mr Js fifth loan in six months.  He was repeatedly asking for a loan shortly  after 
repaying his previous  one. He did this on 3 occasions and was asking for a 4th time 
shortly after he had repaid  loan 4. This shows me that he was most likely unable  to repay 
previous loans without taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap in his 
finances. 
When I consider these points together, it shows that there was a risk now that Mr J would be 
unable to meet his repayments for loan 5 because he was showing clear signs that he was 
struggling to repay in a sustainable way. So I think  MYJAR was wrong to approve loan 5. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5 for the reasons given and MYJAR  should put 
things right as set out below.
Putting things right
Refund all interest  and charges Mr J paid on loan 5;
Ref: DRN07045803Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Remove any negative  information about loan 5 from Mr Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give Mr J a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Js complaint. I require MYJAR Limited trading 
as MYJAR  to put things right for Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0704580