K820x#14Complaint
Mrs Ns unhappy with how St Andrews Insurance Plcs dealt with a claim she made on her 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Background
After becoming too sick to work  in early 2010, Mrs N made a disability  claim on her policy.  
She said St Andrews refused her claim on more than one occasion  before finally  accepting  
it in late 2013   albeit only in part rather than in full.
Mrs N said St Andrews  delays and poor handling  of her claim led to her suffering financial  
difficulties, for which she seeks compensation.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and didnt  recommend  that it be upheld. 
He believed St Andrews had paid the claim correctly and promptly  as there  was no evidence  
to show Mrs N had tried to claim sooner, as she argued.
Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Although Mrs N says she tried to claim with St Andrews much  sooner than 2013,  I havent 
seen any evidence to show  that was the case.  The information provided indicates  to me that 
Mrs N first requested a claim form on 23 September 2013. The claim form was sent out and 
was returned by Mrs N in November 2013. 
In late November 2013, St Andrews wrote to Mrs N to confirm final payment of the claim. 
Among other  things, it said how much had been paid, the period it covered and that payment 
had been made to directly to her credit card provider, as per the policy terms. Although  
Mrs N suggests St Andrews paid the claim in 2010 I dont think thats  the case  instead it 
paid benefit for the time Mrs N was off work  in 2010.  So, it paid the claim retrospectively.
Considering the nature  of the claim, I dont think St Andrews unduly delayed  in dealing  with 
it given that it paid benefits around two months after first being  asked for a claim form.
Mrs N also isnt happy with the amount St Andrews paid but I note the policy terms say it will 
pay 3% of the outstanding balance at the start of the disability. It wont,  for example,  initially 
clear the outstanding balance (although it eventually might have depending on the 
circumstances) or take into account  any spending  on the card that took place after the start 
of the disability.
Based on the calculations  provided to St Andrews by the lender, I cant see that Mrs Ns 
been underpaid for the claim. In fact, she may even  have  received more than she was 
entitled to under the policy terms given her outstanding balance  at the time of the claim was 
€3,879.72, which would  have led to a monthly  benefit of €116.39.
Ref: DRN09719302Im sorry  to have to disappoint Mrs N but, overall,  I dont believe St Andrews has treated her 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0971930