K821x#15complaint
Mr K says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
him. 
background
Mr K was sold a PPI policy with a credit card in 2002. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ks complaint didnt think  Tesco  explained the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Mr K. And he didnt think  Mr K wouldve bought the 
policy if it had. Tesco disagrees, so Mr Ks complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Tesco had a duty to give Mr K enough clear information about the PPI so he could make an 
informed decision about whether he wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think Tesco did 
this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think  if Tesco  had given Mr K the clear 
information he needed he wouldnt have bought the policy.
Its likely  the policy Mr K was sold wouldnt have covered him for any medical condition he 
had when he bought it. Mr K says he had a significant medical condition when he was sold 
the policy. Mr K says that hed been  diagnosed with the condition in 1997  and he has told us 
the two sets of medication he has used since then to control  it.
Ive looked at the notes Tesco has sent us about its investigation into Mr Ks complaint and 
its subsequent  comments in response  to our adjudicators view. Tesco  says it was told by 
Mr K about  his medical condition but Tesco thinks the PPI may not have been  inappropriate  
for Mr K as the medical condition was possibly controllable and he had not had time off work 
for it prior to the sale.
But, as Ive said, I think its likely the PPI excluded cover for Mr Ks known medical condition. 
Mr K has told us about his condition  from the beginning and seems to have been  consistent 
in having done so with Tesco  as well. And I think the medical  condition  had a likelihood of 
significantly affecting him in later life and he would have been aware of this. So, on the basis 
of this and the information  Ive seen, I think its likely the exclusion in the policy wouldve 
mattered to Mr K when he bought the PPI. 
And there was nothing  to draw his attention  to this exclusion  on the postal application form 
Mr K signed  when he was sold the PPI policy. So I havent seen anything to show Tesco did 
enough to make this exclusion clear  to Mr K.
If it had done, and based on the information Ive got, I think its unlikely Mr K wouldve gone 
ahead with the policy if hed known he wasnt likely to have been  covered if hed needed  
time off work because  of his known medical  condition. 
Ref: DRN04305762I think Mr K has lost out because of what Tesco  has done wrong  and so it should  put things 
right.
(For clarity, Mr K has mentioned an unsuccessful unemployment claim he made on the 
policy. This decision does  not cover  that claim. So if Mr K is unhappy that his claim was not 
successful he should raise this with Tesco first, and it would become a separate  case.)
Putting things  right
Tesco should put Mr K in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI:
A.Tesco should find out how much Mr K would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mr K owes and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr K made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Tesco works out what Mr K would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr K 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Tesco should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Mr K paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr K 
would have owed  Tesco  something  on his credit  card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.If Tesco has already  paid Mr K compensation in relation to the commission and profit  
share it got from the PPI policy, it can deduct this from the redress calculated  in A and B.
D.Tesco should tell Mr K what its done to work  out the amount payable to him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest.  Tesco must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Ks complaint  and direct  Tesco  Personal Finance 
PLC to put things right as Ive set out above.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept  or reject  my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0430576