K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Sure Wise Limited. He isnt happy that it cancelled his mobility 
scooter insurance policy and turned down his claim.
background
Mr H took out an insurance policy for his mobility scooter and missed a payment for the 
policy while  he was in hospital. Sure Wise called and spoke to someone at Mr Hs house  
about the failed payment while he was in hospital saying that the policy would cancel if 
payment wasnt made the next day. 
When Mr H got out of hospital his scooter  was vandalised and so he made a claim on his 
policy. But Sure Wise had cancelled his policy due to non-payment and his claim was turned  
down. So Mr H complained to Sure Wise and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr H and upheld  his complaint. He didnt think that 
Sure Wise had followed its cancellation procedure and didnt  feel that it acted reasonably  by 
placing a call to Mr H, saying it would cancel  his policy, while he was in hospital. Mr H 
explained that his carer  had taken the call and the message hadnt been passed on. So our 
adjudicator thought that Sure Wise should pay Mr H compensation equivalent to the claim, 
plus 8% simple interest and £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Sure Wise didnt think it should have to pay the equivalent value of the claim but offered 
£250 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. As Mr H didnt agree the matter has been 
passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Mr H took out an insurance policy for his mobility scooter through Sure  Wise. Unfortunately  
he missed his direct debit payment and so Sure Wise contacted him about payment. But 
Mr H was in hospital  at the time and the message, taken  by his carer,  wasnt passed on. 
Sure Wise says that it wasnt aware that Mr H was in hospital so it cancelled the policy  the 
following day as payment wasnt made. It says that this is its usual practice  but if it had 
known that Mr H was in hospital  it wouldve given  him longer  to make payment. 
A short while later Mr Hs mobility scooter  was badly vandalised  to the extent that he couldnt 
use it and the stress  of these events caused  Mr H to have to go back to hospital.  When  Mr H 
got out of hospital he made  a claim through Sure Wise  but was told the policy had been  
cancelled.
Sure Wise told Mr H that it had left a message for him and sent an email after it cancelled  
the policy. But he explained that he hadnt  received the message  or the email  and said that 
Sure Wise hadnt given  him reasonable notification of the cancellation in accordance  with the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN05885872Sure Wise has said that it followed  its cancellation procedure  and acted in line with the policy 
wording which says;
The Insurer  shall not be bound to accept renewal  of any insurance and may at any time 
cancel any insurance  document by giving 30 days notice in writing where there  is a valid 
reason for doing so. A cancellation letter will be sent to You at Your  last known address.
It has emphasised that it may cancel the policy at any time. So, in this instance Sure  Wise 
says it acted reasonably  in cancelling the policy one day after leaving a message for Mr H. 
But the policy says that it needs to give 30 days notice in writing  and it says that it would 
normally send an email  outlining that the policy will cancel if payment isnt made which  it 
accepts it failed to do. 
So I dont  think it has acted reasonably. I say this as it only left a message for Mr H and 
didnt send any kind of letter  or formal notice  to Mr H explaining that his policy would be 
cancelled if he didnt  make payment. Given that the cancellation would leave Mr H in the 
vulnerable position of having no insurance  cover  for his mobility scooter I dont think  it has 
done enough to make Mr H aware of the pending cancellation or acted reasonably.
As such,  I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Sure Wise to pay Mr H compensation in line with the benefit of the policy which  
would have been paid under the claim  - plus 8% simple interest  from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.  This is because Mr H was unable to advance a claim under his insurance 
policy because of Sure Wises actions.
I also think it would be reasonable to allow Sure Wise to deduct the amount Mr H would 
have paid in premium. And to pay him £250  compensation for the clear  worry and 
inconvenience he has faced in having his claim turned down and having to arrange 
alternative transport for his day to day living needs.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Sure  Wise 
Limited to pay compensation to Mr H in line with what  the insurer  wouldve paid had the 
policy been in place. And pay 8% simple interest  from the date of claim until settlement and 
£250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0588587