K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Europaische  Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) declined her travel  
insurance claim. My references to ERV include  its agents. 
background
Miss K had travel insurance, insured by ERV, for her touring holiday in the UK. Miss K says 
she and her partner mistakenly  left some items in a locked caravan when they left and only 
realised when they arrived at their next location  five hours away.
Miss K says she contacted the caravan  park several  times.  It told her that after she left the 
caravan had been cleaned. On inspection by the caravan park staff Miss K's items  werent  at 
the caravan and hadn't been handed in as lost property. Miss K claimed for the items 
totalling about £1,000.  
ERV declined the claim for several  reasons. The policy excluded:
any loss of unattended items left in a public place or at your lodging unless in securely 
locked Private Accommodation.
ERV said that as Miss K had checked out of the caravan it was no longer her private 
accommodation and the items were unattended. Also Miss K hadnt taken reasonable care 
of her items as the policy required.
Miss K complained to us. She wants ERV to pay her claim and waive  the claim excess. She 
also wants ERV to acknowledge  its policy wording is ambiguous and it shouldnt change its 
reason for declining the claim.
Our investigator thought ERV had fairly declined the claim.
Miss K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said the investigator missed 
several facts but she didnt clarify  which particular facts when asked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
I need to decide whether ERV fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. 
ERV gave more  than one reason for the decline.  Miss K is unhappy  that when she 
challenged its first reason  it gave  her other reasons.  But ERV could fairly do so. It gave all its 
reasons before Miss K complained to us. She was able to put forward  her points for us to 
consider and Ive done so in making my decision.
Im satisfied ERV can rely on the above  exclusion.  I dont think  the policy  wording is 
ambiguous. 
Ref: DRN09907942Unattended' isnt defined  in the policy wording  so its reasonable for me to follow  the 
definition in the leading court case about  unattended property (Starfire Diamond Rings  Ltd v 
Angel). In that case the judge said that for property to be attended  there must be someone 
able to keep it under observation, that is, in a position to observe any attempt to interfere 
with it, and who is so placed as to have a reasonable prospect of preventing  any 
unauthorised interference with it. 
When Miss K and her partner left the items  they didnt  have  sight  of the items and had no 
prospect of preventing unauthorised interference with the items. Im satisfied the items were  
unattended.
The policy defines  Private Accommodation as:
within a permanent building a securely lockable room  for Your sole private use or the 
sole private use of Your travelling party.
Miss K had checked  out of the caravan when she left the items in there. Other  people  had 
keys and access to the caravan and her items.  The vacated caravan wasnt  at that time 
Miss Ks securely locked private  accommodation. 
As I think  ERV could fairly rely on the above exclusion to decline the claim I dont need to 
consider if it could also rely on other  reasons to decline the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0990794