K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr L was sold the PPI in a branch  of Halifax in 1998  at the same  time as arranging  the credit  
card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr L says that the policy was added to the card account without his knowledge or consent. 
Ive seen the application form that was filled in at the time. There is a separate section for 
insurance. Within that section it says: If you want these services,  please tick the appropriate 
boxes. There is a tick in the box next to PPI. And Mr L has signed the form.
Mr L says that, although the signature is his, the ticks are not and he has provided a 
document from 2015 which  he says show what his actual ticks look like. He therefore thinks 
the ticks on the application form were  added after hed signed it.
It was not unusual for advisers to complete forms on behalf  of customers during  the 
application process. All three ticks on the form are by the same hand   including a tick in the 
box about what half of the month Mr L would like his statements. So I dont  think theres 
necessarily anything unusual or suspicious if the ticks werent  made by Mr L himself.  Mr L 
had the opportunity to check the form before he signed it, to ensure that the information was 
correct.
Whilst it is possible that someone else ticked the PPI box after Mr L had signed the form, I 
couldnt safely conclude  that from the available evidence.  I think it is more likely  than not that 
Mr L signed the form with the ticks already in place.
The sale was a long time ago and it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ls recollection of events has 
faded. Overall I think that the PPI was presented as optional.  It seems to me that Mr L 
probably decided  to buy it, knowing that he didnt  have  to, even if he no longer remembers  
doing so.
Bank of Scotland advised Mr L to take out the policy. Therefore in recommending  the PPI to 
Mr L, it needed to ensure  that it met his needs.  And from what I know  of Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable.
Ref: DRN05424412Mr L would  only have  received statutory sick pay from his job. And the policy would have  
paid out in addition to this and potentially for up to 12 months per claim. Mr L says he had 
some savings. But having the policy would  have allowed him to retain  these or use them to 
cover any other outgoings.  So I think Mr L had a need for the policy  and could have 
benefitted from it.
Its possible that Bank of Scotland  didnt  provide  as much information about the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mr L wasnt affected by any 
of those things.  As I think he had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he isnt any worse  off 
as a result  of anything  Bank of Scotland may have done wrong.  So theres nothing Bank of 
Scotland needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0542441