K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about a finance agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited T/A 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF) that was fraudulently opened in her name.
background
In August  2019,  Miss P found out she was a victim  of fraud. Miss P says she received a 
letter from BPF letting her know of an outstanding amount which  was due on a finance 
agreement that was taken out. Miss P says she never applied for the finance and never 
received the goods that the finance was taken out for. Miss P says shes  concerned  how 
BPF allowed this to happen  and doesnt think the correct  amount of checks  were  carried out 
when the application was made by the fraudster. Miss P is also unhappy that BPF registered 
her details on the national fraud database  without her consent to do this.
Miss P says she reported  this incident to the police and that this has caused  her a lot of 
stress, anxiety and health problems. Miss P wants to ensure that information about this 
finance agreement  has been permanently deleted from her credit history. Miss P has asked 
for BPF to compensate  her for the distress this has caused her and the impact it has had on 
her health.
Miss P says she went  into a bank  branch to raise her concerns about  being a victim of fraud. 
Miss P is unhappy with the service  she received  in a bank  branch  as she says she was 
discriminated against and that the staff werent  very helpful to her. 
BPF originally said theyre unable  to tell Miss P the information that the fraudster used in 
order to take out a finance agreement in her name  as this information was provided to the 
supplier of the goods and they approved the finance  application in good faith. BPF also say 
that all information  about this agreement  was removed from Miss Ps credit  history and the 
balance on the account was written  off as fraud. Lastly, BPF say that they wouldnt be 
responsible for the treatment Miss P received in a branch and that Miss Ps details are no 
longer registered  with the national fraud database.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ps concerns.  In summary, she said she didnt think BPF 
did anything wrong  in the way they put things right for Miss P when they realised  she had 
been a victim of fraud. Our investigator also said whilst she was unable to provide the 
specific information the fraudster used in the application, she was satisfied BPF had enough 
information to think the application  was genuine. So she didnt recommend for BPF to do 
anything more.
Miss P disagreed and said she wanted everything looked at again. Miss P reiterated that 
BPF allowed a fraudster to apply  for a finance  agreement using her details, that the staff in 
the bank branch were rude to her and that BPF registered her details with the national fraud 
database without  her consent. Miss P also explained the impact  on her health  this has 
caused her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For ease, Ive addressed Miss Ps 
concerns under separate  headings:
Ref: DRN00224872Fraudulent application
Ive firstly  considered whether BPF should  have  done anything  differently at the point of the 
application being made  and if not, whether theyve  then fairly corrected the problem once 
they became aware.
I can appreciate how distressing being the victim of fraud wouldve been for Miss P and I can 
understand her wish to have all traces of the fraudulent account deleted  from her credit file. 
We asked BPF for information on their approval  process when an application  for finance is 
made. In this case, BPF have given us information to show  what  details the fraudster used in 
the application. And I can see that several  pieces of Miss Ps genuine information, such as 
her name and address, were used  in the finance  application. The information asked for isnt 
uncommon in finance applications.  
BPF have  told me this application was automatically  approved  based on the information 
supplied and the outcome  of the credit check.  Given the information BPF were provided  by 
the fraudster, I cant reasonably say BPF acted unfairly in allowing the application to be 
approved.
But as Ive said above, I also need to consider  whether  BPF have  acted fairly once they 
were told about the fraud. 
When Miss P first notified BPF that the account  had been fraudulently  set up, they then sent 
her a fraud pack to complete and send back. Once  Miss P was able to complete the pack 
and send it back, BPF acted quickly  they concluded the account had been set up 
fraudulently within a day of receiving  information  from Miss P. 
Once BPF concluded  the finance  was taken out fraudulently, they took steps  to remove  any 
information about this agreement from Miss Ps credit history.  Miss P has provided a copy  of 
her credit report  and Im satisfied  that there is no longer a trace of this agreement  on there. 
Miss P wrote  to BPF in September  2019 to let them know she was concerned  as shed  
received a default letter. BPF acknowledged they didnt respond  to Miss P and have offered 
their sincere apologies to her. I dont think BPF need  to do anything  more and overall, I think  
they acted fairly when  dealing with Miss Ps complaint about the fraudulent  account.
I dont think its BPFs  fault that the fraudster  was able to obtain  Miss Ps personal details 
and its not clear how the fraudster was able to do this. Ultimately, I think  BPF acted  quite 
quickly to put things right for Miss P. Having thought about everything, Im persuaded that 
the main source  of the issue  is with the fraudster and not BPF. 
Ultimately BPF have also been defrauded and are at a loss here  based on the evidence, 
BPF wouldnt have known it wasnt Miss P who applied for the finance  until they were told 
and BPF have also had to write  off the outstanding amount on the agreement. Having 
considered everything, Im satisfied BPF put things right in a way Id expect them to.
Miss Ps details being recorded on the national fraud  database
Miss P said BPF registered her details  with the national fraud  database without her consent  
and that she wasnt  aware  this had been done. 
Ref: DRN00224873In the letter  of 9 August 2018,  BPF responded to Miss Ps complaint and set out what 
information they needed from her as part of their fraud investigation. I can see they also let 
Miss P know that in addition to deleting any information about the agreement from her credit  
file, her details will be registered with the national  fraud database and they explained what 
this was. I dont think  it was unreasonable for BPF to register Miss Ps details on the 
database to protect  her from being  a victim  of fraud again and Im satisfied BPF let Miss P 
know they were going to do this.
I note BPF have said that protective  registration  entries to the national  fraud  database only 
stay in place for 13 months. As BPF first registered  Miss Ps details in August 2018, Miss Ps 
details are no longer  on the database. 
Miss P sent us a copy of credit report from September  2019. On this, I can see there  is an 
entry to show Miss Ps details are on the national fraud database. Miss P also sent us a copy 
of her credit report from November 2019  and I cant see an entry for this. So Im satisfied  
Miss Ps details are no longer registered with the national  fraud  database. And I dont think 
BPF need to take further action.
The service  Miss P received when she was in branch
Miss P said when she went into a branch she was discriminated  against  because a staff 
member, who had previously helped her, refused to help her again. As this third party is a 
separate business to BPF, unfortunately, I wont be able to look into Miss Ps complaint  
against them. If Miss P wishes  to make a complaint about this, she will need  to contact that 
business to do this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Clydesdale Financial Services Limited T/A Barclays  
Partner Finance  (BPF) have fairly resolved  Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0022487