K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr C and Mrs D says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. The PPI covered Mr C 
only for unemployment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mrs D have said that they were sold this policy during a meeting. The evidence 
Ive seen suggests that the mortgage that Mr C and Mrs D took out was applied for during a 
meeting but that PPI wasnt sold until a later date  during  a telephone call.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Unfortunately a copy of the call recording  isnt available and very little paperwork has 
been provided to show  me how the PPI was presented following the call.
Ive then considered  that Mr C and Mrs Ds complaint is mainly about not being 
aware that PPI was optional, but I havent  seen evidence to support what  theyve 
said. I say this because  the PPI wasnt  sold until sometime after the mortgage had 
already begun in December  2001. The PPI was then sold in March 2002.
It seems  reasonable to assume that Mr C and Mrs D would reasonably have been 
aware that PPI was separate  to and not a condition of their mortgage, particularly as 
theyd already declined PPI on their mortgage application dated June 2001.
   
Ive also considered that Mr C was covered  for unemployment only when there  were  
other levels of cover  available. This again suggests that he wanted  the cover  and 
chose to take it out having initially felt that he didnt want  PPI when applying for the 
mortgage. 
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Santander made  it clear  that     
Mr C and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they may not remember this.
Ive noted what  Mrs D has said in her most recent  correspondence about feeling 
pressured into taking  PPI, but pressure  can be subjective and what feels  like 
pressure to one person  may not to another. As this was a sale where  Santander 
were making a recommendation to take PPI, its possible that the adviser said that   
Mr C should take PPI, but this is very different to them saying that Mr C had to take 
PPI. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Ref: DRN01706082Mr C has told us that he was working  less than 16 hours per week.  But theres 
conflicting evidence  on file. For example, Santander  has said that Mr C told them as 
part of their investigation that he was working  for 32 hours per week at the time of 
sale. 
The one document that gives a clearer picture  of Mr Cs circumstances when he 
applied for the mortgage - before the PPI sale, doesnt show a salary  that would 
normally be consistent with someone working  part time hours. Mr C also hasnt 
provided evidence  that he was working less than 16 hours  per week. 
Ive also noted  that on the mortgage  application its been recorded  that Mr C had 
been employed with his employer which is the same employer named in his PPI 
questionnaire since March 1992.  
In his PPI questionnaire  Mr C has said that hed only been employed  for 1 year and 
11 months at the time of sale.  Given the time thats  passed since the sale, it wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect  him to recall  everything clearly now.
On balance, Ive considered that Mr C was employed at the time of sale and that he 
wasnt working part time. 
Ive noted Mrs Ds comments about her employment  and health circumstances in a 
letter dated  24 December  2018. But this PPI policy  didnt cover  Mrs D so these points 
dont change my decision.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C and Mrs D have said, but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr C and Mrs D paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr C and Mrs Ds PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr C and Mrs Ds commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mr C and Mrs D back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C and Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Ref: DRN01706083Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0170608