K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr C took out three loans  with QuickQuid between February 2013 and November 2013. 
Loans one and two were  payday loans, intended  to be repaid in one repayment. Loan three 
was a FlexCredit loan that provided Mr C with a revolving credit  facility. Mr C repaid the 
loans he had with QuickQuid. A summary of Mr Cs borrowing from QuickQuid is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
112 February 2013 400 28 February 2013
23 March 2013 700 31 October 2013
38 November 2013 700 12 November 2013
Mr C says that he couldnt afford to repay  the loans and that he was in financial difficulty. He 
wants a refund of all charges and interest, plus interest.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Cs complaint. He said that QuickQuid shouldnt have 
given Mr C loans two and three. The adjudicator set out what  QuickQuid should do to put 
matters right. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It said that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly to Mr C. QuickQuid said that Mr C extended loan two without going into default 
or incurring  any extra  fees. It said that Mr C repaid  loan three  in four days  then asked to 
close his account.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  its been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN02065542But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance  and later 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I dont think that QuickQuid was wrong to give Mr C loan one. Given the amount of the loan, 
what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time and his history with the lender at 
that point, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for QuickQuid to ask Mr C for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr C provided or the information  QuickQuid shouldve  been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  for it to start verifying what  Mr C said about his 
financial position. 
I think the position changed  at loan two. Thats because the repayment for loan two 
represented a significant proportion of Mr Cs income. He had to repay £875 out of an 
income of £2,000. In those circumstances, there was a significant  risk that Mr C wouldnt 
have been able to meet his existing  commitments  without having  to borrow again. So, I think 
its unlikely that Mr C wouldve been  able to sustainably meet his repayments for this loan 
and any subsequent loans.
Ref: DRN02065543In fact, Mr C did have  difficulty  repaying  loan two. He deferred repayment  and entered into a 
payment plan. It took Mr C nearly eight months  to repay loan two, which  was intended at the 
outset to be repaid  in under a month.  So, by loan three, Mr C had shown signs that he was 
struggling to repay what hed previously borrowed. I think  there was significant  risk that Mr C 
wouldve been unable  to sustainably meet his repayments. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending  history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
three. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Cs borrowing suggested that he had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans.  By loan three,  Mr C had been borrowing 
from QuickQuid for almost nine months. And the amount  he borrowed for loan three was 
significantly more than hed borrowed  for loan one. By loan three, the pattern of lending,  in 
itself, shows that loan three was unsustainable. Mr C had paid large amounts of interest to, 
in effect, service a debt to QuickQuid over an extended period. I think  that Mr C lost out 
because QuickQuid gave  him loan three. Whilst Mr C repaid loan three  quite quickly, it 
nevertheless unfairly prolonged  his indebtedness. 
So, I dont think that QuickQuid should have  given Mr C loans two and three and QuickQuid 
should put things right.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans two and three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan two from Mr Cs credit file;
any information about loan three is adverse, so all entries about loan three should be 
removed from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint  in part. CashEuroNet UK LLC,  
trading as QuickQuid,  should take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0206554