K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance  
(PPI) with their mortgage. 
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs S took out some  further  borrowing and changed their existing  mortgage.  
At the same time they also took out PPI designed  to protect their mortgage payments in the 
event Mrs S couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment  the policy  was 
in Mrs S name  only as Mr S wasnt working.
The sale was carried out over the phone  and Santander says it was an advised sale where it 
recommended the cover  as being  suitable  for them.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost under £13 a month.
At the time Mrs S was working full time and she told us she was entitled to at least  six 
months full sick pay. In her original submissions  to us Mrs S answered No to having any 
existing medical conditions. But Mrs S, through her representative, later provided information  
to say that she did in fact have a medical condition  something shed had since  childhood  
and which  had deteriorated over time following failed  operations  to correct the condition.
I issued my provisional decision of July 2019, in which I said I was likely to not uphold the 
complaint. In summary I made  the following findings:
Based  on the limited  evidence provided  in the case, I thought Santander made  it 
clear Mr and Mrs S didnt have to have  PPI  they were given a choice about it and 
they agreed to it without undue pressure.
It wasnt wrong for Santander to have recommended PPI  it was suitable for them  
notwithstanding Mrs S medical condition.  Mrs S condition did not impact her daily 
life to the extent  that if affected  her ability work  or that Mrs S wouldve likely thought 
at the time that it would do so in the future. Mr and Mrs S wider circumstances 
demonstrated they had a need for cover.
Santander might not have done all that it should in terms of providing Mr and Mrs S 
with clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy. But there was nothing  
to suggest theyd have been  put off taking out the cover if Santander had done 
anything more.
The FCAs rules and guidance about dealing with complaints about unfair 
commission dont apply  in Mr and Mrs S case.
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs S replied to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im mindful that Mr and Mrs S have not replied  to my provisional  decision, Im satisfied 
they received  it via their representative  and that they were aware of the deadline for 
responses. 
Ref: DRN07278842As such I think  its reasonable to assume that if they wanted to respond  they wouldve done  
so by now. I think its therefore safe for me to carry on and issue my final decision.
Because Ive not been given anything new to consider, I see no reason to change my mind  
my findings  and conclusions remain the same as I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, Ive decided  not to uphold 
this complaint or make any award in favour  of Mr and Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0727884