K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited imposed an 
unreasonably low cap on the hourly rate it was prepared to pay for legal representation in 
relation to a legal expenses claim.
Mr J is represented by a law firm in this complaint, and the same  law firm is representing 
Mr J in a legal case. 
background
Mr J bought a Home insurance policy in 2012  from a firm Ill call N, and this included legal 
expenses cover. DAS provides the legal expenses insurance and is responsible  for claims 
against this aspect of the policy.
In October  2018 Mr J made a claim for legal expenses assistance  in relation to an 
employment dispute and had already appointed his own solicitors.  About a week  later DAS 
sent correspondence to Mr J and his appointed solicitors, who Ill call F, stating that the 
policy hourly rate was £100. 
Around two weeks  later DAS sent F its terms of appointment  (inc. the hourly  rate + VAT) 
asking F to confirm the prospects  of success (in percentage  terms). F replied stating the 
claim had prospects of 51% and that it had previous experience with DAS in negotiating 
more than the £100 hourly rate. Shortly after DAS confirmed there was no negotiation  on the 
hourly rate on Mr Js policy.
F submitted  that the rate wasnt drawn to Mr Js attention and his case  was high profile  and 
complex. But DAS stated it had law firms that could deal with the case  and obtained 
confirmation from two firms who would  indeed take the case  at the hourly rate. F continued 
to raise issues about the sale of the policy but DAS explained it didnt sell the policy and any 
mis-sale complaint would need to be directed against the firm that sold the policy. But its 
decision on the hourly rate didnt change.
F agreed to DAS terms of appointment, including the hourly rate, but reserved Mr Js right to 
pursue DAS or the policy  seller  for any balance. DAS refute  Fs suggestion that the hourly 
rate inhibits Mr Js freedom of choice  of solicitors. It has offered two firms  willing to take his 
case on or in the alternative Mr J can pay the difference  to F. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Js complaint and thought  the policy clearly outlined  
the £100 hourly rate, and that DAS had informed Mr J again of this rate at the point he made  
his claim.  
The investigator explained that DAS had stated the hourly rate on a number of occasions to 
Mr J and F and F later agreed to the rate after a number of email  exchanges.  And she didnt 
think DAS had acted  outside the policy terms or unfairly in the circumstances. The 
investigator noted that the complaint about  the policy being mis-sold would need to be 
directed to the firm that sold the policy to Mr J.
F disagreed  with the investigator. In summary,  the points it makes are;
The policy was sold on the basis  of £50,000 cover
The hourly rate makes  it misleading  and wasnt made clear  when the policy was sold
Ref: DRN08002652The hourly rate is an onerous contract term but wasnt brought  to Mr Js attention so 
should be struck from the terms
Suitably qualified and experienced lawyers  could not be found to act at £100 per 
hour, and as such Mr Js freedom of choice  of solicitors is meaningless.
The complaint has been referred for an ombudsman  to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The legal expenses  cover  is an optional aspect of insurance cover within  a Home insurance 
policy. There is a section  titled If you claim and sets out what DAS will pay. And it sets out 
the following;
 the most we will pay in costs  and expenses is no more that the amount we would have 
paid to a preferred law firm. The amount we will pay a law firm (where  acting as an 
appointed representative)  is currently £100  per hour. This amount may vary from time to 
time.
A preferred law firm is defined in the policy as;
The law firm or barristers  chambers [DAS] choose to provide legal services. They  will have 
the proven expertise to deal with your claim and must comply with [DAS] agreed service  
standard levels, which [DAS] audit  regularly. They are appointed to the DAS standard terms 
of appointment.
DAS standard  terms of appointment are defined in the policy as;
The terms and conditions  (including the amount [DAS] will pay to a representative) that 
apply to the relevant type of claim.  This could include a conditional fee agreement  (no win, 
no fee).
There is more information under a section titled How we settle  claims. Under this section it 
says;
In the event of a claim if you decide  not to use the service of a preferred law firm, you will be 
responsible for any costs  that fall outside the DAS standard  terms of appointment and these 
will not be paid by us.
As DAS is paying the legal costs incurred  Im satisfied that as a principle it is fair for DAS to 
restrict what its willing to pay. The terms around the hourly  rate, in my view, are sufficiently 
clear. There  is scope  for that rate to vary and that may be appropriate where, for example, 
the case is particularly  unusual or complex.  F suggests the case falls into this category 
although DAS does not. 
Its not my role to determine whether the case is particularly unusual or complex. And its 
clear that there are differing views. I note F describes the claim as being  about discrimination 
(including harassment)  in addition to victimisation and potentially  whistleblowing. Indications  
from panel solicitors indicate theyd be willing to work at the normal rates. As things stand 
Im satisfied the hourly rate is clearly set out.
Im mindful of relevant law which is to the effect  that where it is necessary to start legal 
proceedings Mr J has freedom to choose  his solicitors. That being the case, and indeed this 
is a point F makes, Ive considered whether DAS hourly rate here unreasonably restricts this 
Ref: DRN08002653right. While I must  take that law into account  my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of Mr Js complaint.
DAS has confirmation  from two panel firms able to deal with the case at its hourly  rate of 
£100. Mr J had already  appointed solicitors before contacting DAS but DAS did discuss  the 
hourly rate with both Mr J and his solicitors.  Currently DAS isnt of the view that the claim is 
particularly unusual or complex and Im not persuaded  that is an unreasonable position  to 
take. In my experience of these  types  of complaints and the instruction of panel solicitors,  a 
change in the hourly rate is something that an insurer  will do where appropriate. 
I note Mr J has a barrister  instructed  in his case,  and the term allows  DAS to vary the hourly 
rate. Should legal advice be provided  that persuasively outlines  the case as unusual  or 
complex, such that a higher rate is warranted, Id expect DAS,  in the spirit of the general 
principle to treat customers  fairly, to give consideration  to the hourly rate and whether its 
reasonable to vary the rate. 
DAS has confirmed its able to offer a choice of different firms that could deal with Mr Js 
type of case. I think thats reasonable, and I dont agree that it has limited his choice of 
solicitors so much as to render it meaningless.  
Mr Js solicitors had been  dealing with his case for a period of time. But he didnt have a right 
to choose solicitors until it was necessary to issue proceedings. And if Mr J had made a 
claim at the start he would only have been  entitled  to panel solicitors.  Im not persuaded that 
DAS should have to agree to Mr Js solicitors and their rate purely on the basis that he 
instructed them before  making his claim.  
While F has raised issues about the sale of the policy and whether or not certain  aspects of 
the policy were sufficiently brought to Mr Js attention, those  matters  are more properly 
directed to the seller of the policy and that was not DAS.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0800265