K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr D had a policy with Admiral. Shortly before it was due to renew Mr D was involved in a 
minor incident with another  car. Mr D said that as there was no damage to either car he 
didn't think  he needed  to tell Admiral about it. After Mr Ds policy renewed Admiral found  out 
about the incident. It said that if it had known about  it before  his policy  renewed,  it would 
have charged him around £361 more.  So it said he should pay that sum. It later reduced that 
amount to around  £309 after it closed the incident  without making any payment  to either 
party.
Mr D didn't think the additional premium  was fair. Admiral said that it would cancel his policy 
if he didn't pay it. But it extended  the time-frame for him to do so. Mr D paid the additional 
premium.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 July 2019. For ease I've copied my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.  
Mr D phoned Admiral  before his policy renewed and agreed to renew at the price  it offered. 
But that was before he had the incident with the other driver; so Admiral couldn't take it into 
account when  calculating his renewal premium  at that time.
I understand that, given the minor nature of the incident and the fact Mr D didn't  think  either 
car had suffered any damage he didn't think he needed to tell Admiral about  it. But like all 
motor policies Im aware of Mr Ds policy requires  him to tell Admiral  about  any and all 
motoring incidents.  So I think he should have told Admiral about it. And if hed done so 
Admiral would have  charged Mr D more to renew  his policy. But as Admiral  didn't find out 
about the incident until after the policy had renewed,  it couldn't  tell him what  the change in 
premium would have  been before it renewed.
But that doesn't mean it was fair for Admiral to simply impose an additional premium. Mr Ds 
mistake in not telling  Admiral about the incident is whats known in the insurance  industry  as 
a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific legislation: the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA), that sets out what insurers  like Admiral 
may do in those circumstances. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise  have applied). But if the consumer 
isnt happy with that approach, they can cancel  the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium. But we think  its 
reasonable for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres  a problem and give them the 
option of paying the additional premium in order to keep the policy  going or otherwise to 
cancel the policy themselves.
Ref: DRN07494612In this case I havent seen evidence that Admiral gave Mr D the option of cancelling the 
policy himself.  Instead it simply imposed the additional premium. And I don't think that was 
fair. 
Admiral eventually told Mr D that if he didn't pay the extra premium it would cancel the 
policy. Understandably, given that having  a policy cancelled by an insurer can have a 
significant impact on a consumers ability to obtain  insurance and the premiums  charged for 
those policies, Mr D chose to pay the additional  premium. 
But if Admiral had dealt  with Mr D fairly  from the outset and given him the option of paying 
the additional premium or cancelling the policy  himself, he could have looked  to the market 
to see if he could find a cheaper policy elsewhere. But because Admiral didn't  give him that 
choice at an early stage he lost the opportunity to do so until his policy had been running for 
many months and he would stand  to lose out on gaining a no claims bonus year.  So I don't 
think Admiral treated Mr D fairly and he might have lost out as a result. And its unfair 
treatment has clearly  been a source of distress and inconvenience for him.  
In order to put things  right, I intend  to require Admiral to:
 reimburse Mr D the additional premium  of £309.35 and add simple interest to that 
sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date he paid it to the date it refunds him; and
 pay Mr D £100 compensation to address  his distress  and inconvenience. 
developments
Neither Mr D nor Admiral made any comments which called my provisional decision findings  
into question.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr D nor Admiral has objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
 reimburse Mr D the additional premium  of £309.35 and add simple interest to that 
sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date he paid it to the date it refunds him1; and
 pay Mr D £100 compensation to address  his distress  and inconvenience.
Admiral should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr D has accepted 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
Ref: DRN07494613Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0749461