K821x#15complaint
Ms P has complained about  the way in which CIGNA Life Insurance  Company of Europe 
SA-NV has handled  the claims she has made under her private  medical insurance policy.
background
Ms P took out the policy in March 2017.
In August  2017,  Ms P was diagnosed with Ehlers Danlos syndrome (EDS). She asked  
CIGNA to authorise various tests. CIGNA asked Ms P for further information about the 
history of her symptoms and for medical records before it eventually agreed to authorise the 
tests. It also agreed to assign Ms P a nurse  case manager so she had a single point of 
contact to oversee  her claims.
In September  2017, Ms P became unhappy at not being able to contact  her nurse  case  
manager. She also requested authorisation for some  further  tests.  CIGNA authorised  some  
of the tests but said it needed further information  before it could  authorise  the rest.
Ms P complained to CIGNA about  its handling of her claims. While it was considering  her 
complaint, CIGNA agreed to provide cover for the other tests.
In January 2018, CIGNA issued  its final response.  It said that EDS was a congenital 
condition and wasnt covered under Ms Ps policy. It said it therefore shouldnt  have 
authorised any of the tests. It nonetheless agreed to provide cover  for those tests for which 
authorisation had already been given and which had been  undertaken. It further  said that 
because it wouldnt be providing cover for the future treatment of her condition, it would no 
longer assign her a nurse case manager.
Ms P was unhappy  at CIGNAs  response. She considered  it was unfairly excluding cover for 
treatment which she needed.  She believed it had caused delays by unnecessarily asking for 
information and had generally  provided  a poor service.
Our investigator ultimately  recommended, in June 2019, that the complaint should be upheld 
in part.
Our investigator was satisfied that, under the terms of the policy,  there was no cover  for 
treatment of Ms Ps EDS. She noted  that CIGNA had led Ms P to believe that the condition 
would be covered. However, she also noted  that in its final response CIGNA  had agreed  to 
provide cover for those specific tests it had authorised and for which  Ms P had already 
incurred cost. Our investigator  was satisfied this was fair and that CIGNA  wasnt  obliged  to 
provide cover for treatment of Ms Ps EDS beyond this.
However, our investigator considered that the tests  which had been authorised werent 
specifically about  Ms Ps EDS; she thought they related  to other conditions and symptoms 
from which Ms P suffered and that CIGNA  hadnt  reasonably shown that these conditions 
and symptoms were related to Ms Ps EDS. For this reason, she thought that CIGNA had 
been obliged  to provide  cover for the tests,  as opposed to it having  provided  this cover on a 
goodwill basis after incorrectly  providing authorisation. She noted that this might affect the 
way in which CIGNA assessed  future  claims by Ms P.
Ref: DRN09653972Our investigator also noted that the policy stated that a nurse case  manager  could be 
appointed to handle more  complex treatment. She thought that CIGNA should appoint  such  
a person to handle  Ms Ps claims.
Finally, our investigator noted that CIGNA had fallen short  in its customer service  in various 
ways. These  included the way it misled Ms P into believing her EDS would  be covered by 
the policy, its delays  in authorising treatment and its assertions that certain  conditions  were 
linked to Ms Ps EDS without supporting evidence. She considered that these  failings would 
have caused distress and inconvenience to Ms P for which CIGNA should pay her £250 
compensation.
Both parties  initially agreed to the investigators  findings and our file was closed.
However, in September 2019, Ms P contacted the investigator to explain that she still hadnt 
been assigned  a nurse case  manager.  She also explained  that she had raised  further 
complaints with CIGNA  since the time she originally referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator contacted CIGNA. It responded in October 2019, apologising for not 
arranging the nurse  case  manager.  It said that after internal discussion  it now considered 
that it would  be more appropriate  to assign a customer service  case  manager  to Ms P. This 
was because a nurse  case  manager  would be able to address only medical issues,  such as 
requests for treatment  authorisation, whereas many of Ms Ps queries related to non-medical 
matters such as billing queries. It explained that the customer  service case manager could 
liaise with its clinical team to provide a fast response  to any medical queries.
The investigator relayed  this suggestion to Ms P but she rejected it. She said she wanted  a 
nurse case manager as CIGNA had originally promised. She further said, in view of the 
ongoing problems  she was experiencing, CIGNA  should also assign  her a customer service 
case manager.
In December 2019, CIGNA finally said it had appointed a nurse case  manager  to Ms P even 
though it thought this wasnt appropriate given her circumstances. It said the nurse case 
manager would be available to handle medical  enquiries only.  It said it wouldnt agree to 
Ms Ps request to also provide a customer service case  manager and that for all non-medical 
queries Ms P should contact its customer service team in the usual way.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
In declining  cover for treatment of Ms Ps EDS,  CIGNA cited  the following policy clause:
We will pay for treatment  of congenital  conditions  on an inpatient or daypatient basis which  
manifest themselves  before the beneficiarys 18th birthday if:
 
at least one parent has been  covered by the policy  for a continuous period of 12 months  
or more  prior to the newborns birth and the newborn is added  to the policy  within 30 
days of the birth.
They were not evident  at policy  inception.
It said because that Ms Ps condition didnt manifest  itself before her 18th birthday, she 
wasnt covered under  the policy.
Ref: DRN09653973However, the above clause is within a section entitled Parent  and baby care.  I consider  it is 
applicable only to a congenital condition discovered  in the child of a policyholder.  It has no 
relevance to Ms P. I therefore consider that CIGNA  is unable to rely on this clause to 
exclude cover for treatment of Ms Ps EDS. CIGNA has provided no other  grounds  for 
excluding cover. I therefore consider  that CIGNA was wrong  to decline Ms Ps claims. It 
should remove the exclusion from her policy and cover eligible costs which she has so far 
incurred.
CIGNA has clearly provided  a poor service  to Ms P. It had previously agreed to the 
investigators recommendation that it should pay £250 compensation for its various failings. 
However, in view of the fact that it additionally  should not have excluded  cover for treatment 
of Ms Ps EDS, I consider  that this sum should  be increased to £500.
Finally, let me deal with the issue of the future handling of Ms Ps claims.  The policy states,  
under the heading Nurse  complex case management:
When treatment is more complex,  our nurses  can take over the case providing clinical  
guidance and reassurance. In addition, that nurse  can become the beneficiary's  dedicated 
point of contact  throughout the treatment  process.
Ms P wanted CIGNA to appoint a nurse  case manager to handle  her claims. I consider that 
generally it is up to CIGNA  to decide how to run its business, including  when to appoint a 
nurse case manager. CIGNA thought  it was more appropriate in this case to provide  Ms P 
with a customer service case manager  and it explained why. Ms P didnt accept this. CIGNA 
has therefore agreed to her request  to appoint a nurse case manager. I consider this is fair. I 
cant reasonably  tell CIGNA that it must also appoint a customer service  case  manager.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
CIGNA responded  to say the policy had now been cancelled. It didnt otherwise comment on 
the provisional decision.
Ms P didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has commented  on it, Im satisfied that the provisional  decision 
should stand.
If it is the case that the policy  has now been  cancelled, then clearly CIGNA will be liable for 
Ms Ps treatment  costs  only up to the date of cancellation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN09653974I require CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe  SA-NV to remove  the exclusion for EDS 
from Ms Ps policy and to pay the cost of any treatment she has received for this condition, 
in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions. If Ms P has already met these 
eligible costs  herself, CIGNA  should  reimburse  her and add interest at the annual  simple 
rate of 8%, calculated from the date Ms P paid the invoice to the date of settlement.* 
I further require  CIGNA  to pay Ms P £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If CIGNA considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms P how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms P a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0965397