K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 complain that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) acted  
unfairly and unreasonably  by giving them a mortgage for a property now seen as being  of 
non-standard construction.  They want matters put right so the property can be sold.
background
Mr M1 and Mr M2 owned a property together which was subject to a mortgage from Halifax. 
They wanted  to sell the property, but when the property was surveyed for potential buyers 
(who were  using Halifax), the valuer  said that the property had a non-standard  structure.  The 
sale didnt go ahead  and Mr M1 lost out on the property he wanted to buy as a result.  Mr M1 
said that no other surveyor had commented on the structure of the property, though he noted 
previous valuations had been  done by other lenders either through  a computer  or by driving 
past. He felt that Halifax had acted unfairly and unreasonably by giving  a mortgage over 
such a property in 2015 when they remortgaged to move to Halifax through  a broker.
Mr M1 complained to Halifax.  It pointed  out that Mr M1s mortgage was taken  out through a 
broker; it was the brokers  role to advise  on the suitability of the mortgage. It paid £300 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.  Halifaxs valuers also wrote  to Mr M1 and Mr 
M2 and said that they were investigating.
Mr M1 and Mr M2 complained to us. Mr M2 explained that he was added to the mortgage in 
2015 to assist Mr M1, and he wouldnt have agreed  if hed known that the property  wasnt of 
standard construction. Halifaxs valuers explained that the property had been altered  from 
the outside so it looked  standard and the original lender was told there  was no issue with the 
property by Mr M1 and his former partner. They also explained that the valuation carried out 
for Halifaxs mortgage was a level one valuation while Mr M1 and Mr M2s  potential buyers 
got a level two valuation  this was why the issue wasnt  spotted in 2015.  The 2015 valuation  
was for Halifaxs benefit and couldnt  be relied  upon by Mr M1 and Mr M2. The valuers also 
said that the property was viewed as defective unless it could be shown that it had been 
repaired. Mr M1 said that hed had found  out that the property  had mainly  been sold to cash 
buyers in the past due to this issue.
The adjudicators view was that the valuation carried out in 2015 was for the benefit of 
Halifax, not Mr M1 and Mr M2. He also said that as the mortgage was taken out through a 
broker, Halifax couldnt have mis-sold  it. The adjudicator thought  that it was fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to rely upon  the valuation provided to it by a qualified valuer; he also 
accepted that the reason  why the valuer didnt notice that the property wasnt of a standard 
construction was partly  due to the external changes made to it and the level of valuation  
carried out. The adjudicator thought Halifaxs offer was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Mr M1 and Mr M2 disagreed. They said that they felt their complaint hadnt  been properly 
dealt with and the issues before 2015 had been overlooked entirely.  They confirmed that 
theyd now complained to the original lender and were going  to complain to the body dealing 
with valuers. The adjudicator  said that he could only deal with the complaint  against Halifax  
at this time and this complaint was independent  of other connected complaints.
Ref: DRN06302772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only dealing  with a complaint against  
Halifax in relation to a mortgage it gave Mr M1 and Mr M2 in 2015, and not any issues in 
relation to the original purchase  by Mr M1 and his former partner or other remortgages 
Its worth  noting that in 2015 when Mr M1 remortgaged the property and added Mr M2, 
Mr M1 already had owned the property  for about ten years.  So Halifax  cant be responsible  
for any difficulties in selling the property now. And as the mortgage was taken out through a 
broker, Halifax couldnt have mis-sold  it due to the role of the broker  in ensuring that the 
mortgage was suitable. And Halifax owed no duty to Mr M2 to tell him about  the property.
Having looked  at all the evidence before me, I noted  that when the property was first bought,  
Mr M1 and his then partner told the original lender that there  was nothing affecting  the future 
saleability of the property and didnt arrange a physical inspection  of the property. It then 
seems that later lenders simply arranged for valuers to drive past and the evidence shows 
that externally  theres no reason to think that the property isnt standard  due to work  
undertaken. One noted that the property wasnt of standard  construction  but said the 
property was acceptable security. It isnt clear if Mr M1 was shown this valuation. Halifax  
isnt responsible for any of these actions by previous  lenders.
When Mr M1 and Mr M2 remortgaged to Halifax in 2015, they chose to only have a free level 
one valuation done. Such a valuation is only for the benefit of Halifax  and is basic.  While its 
a matter for a professional valuer  how to conduct  such a valuation, I think its fair and 
reasonable to note that such a valuation in the circumstances  was unlikely to spot the issue 
with the property, compared  to a more in-depth  level two valuation  (which is what  happened 
in 2018). And its fair and reasonable for Halifax to rely on the valuation carried  out by a 
professional valuer  which didnt  spot the issue.
I cant say that Halifax  has acted unfairly or unreasonably in giving Mr M1 and Mr M2 a 
mortgage in 2015 in all the circumstances. I note that its paid £300 compensation but it 
hasnt set out in detail  why. Given that I havent found Halifax to be at fault, this 
compensation is more  than fair and reasonable in my view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M1 and Mr M2 to accept or reject  my decision 
before 18 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0630277