K820x#14complaint
Mr G has made the following complaints about the CreditExpert  account  he had with 
Experian Limited (Experian): 
he was unable  to make full use of the CreditExpert service, despite contacting 
Experian a number of times;
his current  address wasnt  showing on the Electoral Roll Information  section of the 
credit report;
his Experian  credit report was incomplete; 
Experian provided poor service when he contacted them  about his complaint;
he believes that Experian is responsible for two credit  applications being declined; 
and
hes not happy that Experian have failed to explain why his credit report incorrectly 
showed that he had two additional  defaulted  accounts.
background
Mr G took out a CreditExpert account with Experian  in 2018. He encountered  difficulties 
accessing his account and when  he did successfully access  his account, he felt that the 
credit report  it generated contained incorrect or missing information.
Mr G complained to Experian about the issues he was having  in November 2018. From mid-
November to mid-December 2018 Mr G and Experian were in frequent contact regarding his 
complaint. Experian  issued  a final response  to Mr G on 18 December 2018  and upheld  his 
complaint in part, regarding the service hed received  and the deletion  of his account  in error. 
Experian didnt  accept the remainder  of Mr Gs complaint points. Mr G wasnt happy with 
Experians response and brought  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into each of Mr Gs complaint points and concluded:
with regard to his main complaint about  not being able to access  his account, 
Experian had provided evidence to show that Mr G had accessed his free account 
and his CreditExpert  account;
his address had been updated  in December  2018 in the Electoral Roll Information 
section of the credit report. Experian  confirmed  that anyone who registered between  
August and December  wouldnt see the updated information until December / 
January  however this wasnt due to an error  made by Experian;  
any details on the credit report such as default  or negative markers could only be 
corrected by Experian following an instruction from the lender. So Mr G would need 
to raise the recording of any incorrect information with the lender, otherwise the 
defaults or negative  markers would remain on his account for six years;  and  
Experian shouldnt  have deleted his account  and didnt  always call back when  they 
said they would,  but their offer of £250  is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He said that he still had no access to his account 
so couldnt provide a copy of his credit  report.  He also said:
there were two defaults,  and a number 2 showing in red that shouldnt  be on the 
credit report;
he didnt need  or want  two Experian accounts;
since his account  was deleted it hadnt shown all of his credit accounts;
his credit score had been affected  by Experian messing it all around;
Ref: DRN02362212he had spent at least 40 hours  on the phone and computer trying to sort it out with 
them;
hes had appalling customer  service on numerous occasions;
he escalated his complaint on several  occasions as he wasnt happy  with the way he 
was being dealt with and ended  up with worse customer service;
hes had nothing but problems and excuses  and blaming it on addresses  etc.;
the only website  he can access is the free one; and
he doesnt think £250 is adequate compensation for the amount of hassle hes had 
and time wasted, the cost of all the phone  calls hes had to make,  the time hes had 
to take off work to sort it out, and the damage its caused to his credit score.
On 5 April 2019  our investigator  informed Mr G that Experian had offered to refund one 
months premium and close the account  to resolve  the matter,  so he could then use another  
provider to access the information. Our investigator said she thought that was fair. But Mr G 
didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision on his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive first considered Mr Gs complaint points in relation the content of his Experian credit 
report. Ive then gone on to address Mr Gs complaint points about the issues  he had 
accessing his account and the customer service he received. 
Complaints relating to content of the Experian credit report
Mr G has complained that his address wasnt showing up correctly on the report,  and there 
were problems with his new address being displayed on the Electoral  Roll Information 
section of the credit report. He also said the credit report showed a red 2 and two defaulted 
accounts incorrectly, and didnt include reference to his accounts with his bank, who Ill call 
N.
As our investigator explained, credit reference agencies  (CRAs)  store credit related 
information, but it is lenders and other account providers who pass  on the information to the 
CRAs to record. Experian have suggested that the reason Mr Gs accounts with N werent 
showing on the report was that N was providing  the information to Experian using an 
incorrect format. Experian  provided  an example of the format that needed to be used and 
explained that Mr G would  need  to speak to N about this directly. 
As the format in which N submitted the information  to Experian was not something Experian  
had any influence over,  I think it was reasonable for them to ask Mr G to contact N directly 
about this. And, in setting out the format that N needed to use, Im satisfied that Experian  
has acted reasonably in relation to this element  of Mr Gs complaint. 
I also dont think Experian have dont anything wrong in relation  to Mr Gs address not being  
updated under the Electoral Roll Information section of the report. As our investigator 
explained, the reason why people who registered between  August and December  wouldnt  
see the updated information  in the report until December or January was due to the timing of 
when the council passed the annual canvass register to Experian. Once Experian had 
received the register,  they updated their records. 
Ref: DRN02362213Mr G has also said there  was a red 2 on his report and it showed two defaults that 
shouldnt be there. Experian explained  that the red 2 was a cosmetic  defect  on the website 
that their technicians were  working  to resolve.  Experian also said they had nothing to 
suggest the information on Mr Gs credit  report was incorrect, but again, he would need to 
take any of those concerns up with his lenders who provided the information  to Experian. 
Ive reviewed, the copy of the credit  report that Experian provided us with, dated 17 January 
2019, and I note that it doesnt show either of these errors. And Mr G hasnt  been  able to 
provide us with a copy of a credit report which includes reference to the 2 and the 
additional defaults, so I cant comment on that further.
So, I dont agree that Experian has done  anything  wrong in relation to these two elements  of 
Mr Gs complaint. 
Issues accessing his account  and customer service he received
Ive next considered whether the amount of £250 that Experian has offered Mr G to 
compensate him for the service he received is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In summary,  Mr G is unhappy that he had two Experian accounts; he had endless  problems 
trying to access his account; Experian deleted his account in error and took a long time to 
correct the error; and he says the customer service  he received was appalling.
Ive carefully reviewed the contact notes provided  by Experian, for the period of 22 
November 2018  to 18 December 2018 when Mr G was experiencing the problems with 
accessing his Experian CreditExpert account.  I can see that Mr G was very frustrated and 
did have to spend a lot of his own time trying to resolve the situation.  However,  I think  that 
some of the issues with accessing his account were due to Mr G having  both a free account  
and a CreditExpert  account which had to be accessed via different websites.  Although this 
wasnt what Mr G wanted, he says he only wanted one account, the way Experians systems  
worked at that time, meant that this was how Mr G needed to access his credit  report.  I cant 
comment on how Experian decide to make their services available  but I can look at the 
service theyve provided. And with regard to the two accounts, Im satisfied that Experian 
clearly explained  this to Mr G on a couple  of occasions, and our investigator  also passed on 
the explanation. If Mr G didnt wish to access his credit information in this way, he had the 
option of cancelling his account,  which he eventually did, and accessing his credit  
information from another providers website.
Ive also carefully considered the customer service Experian provided Mr G throughout this 
period and I cant agree it was appalling.  Mr Gs concerns  were  promptly  escalated  to senior 
managers at his request. And although  he may have had the occasional call that wasnt  
immediately returned,  I can see that during the period of 22 November 2018 to 18 December 
2018 Mr G was phoned or emailed by Experian  on every  working  day other  than 3 
December 2018.  I agree that in deleting his account  Experian didnt provide good customer 
service, but I note that this occurred while Experian  were also trying to help resolve issues  
that Gs wife was encountering with her account.  Experian have paid Mr G £250 to apologise 
for the disappointing  customer service hes received at times. And given all the 
circumstances of his complaint,  I think that provided a reasonable resolution to this part of 
Mr Gs complaint.
mortgage application and mobile  phone contract declined
Ref: DRN02362214Mr G said he had a mobile  phone contract, and mortgage application declined as a result of 
the problems he had with his CreditExpert account. However, Ive reviewed the previous 
searches section of Mr Gs credit report dated 17 January 2019 and I can see no evidence  of 
any mortgage lender  or mobile phone  supplier carrying  out a search  in the previous  12 
months. And Ive seen  nothing on the case file to contradict this. So, I dont  uphold  this 
aspect of Mr Gs complaint.
paying for a service that he couldnt  use
Mr G has also complained  that hes paid for a service that he couldnt use. However,  
Experian have  confirmed that the two payments of £14.99 charged in 2018, and the four 
payments of £14.99 that Mr G was charged in 2019  have  all been refunded. I consider this to 
be a fair resolution  of this part of Mr Gs complaint. 
So for the reasons set out above, my decision  is that the £250 Experian  has paid to Mr G for 
the disappointing service he received is fair in all the circumstances of his complaint.
my final decision
Experian Limited has already made  an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  On the basis that the £250  has been paid to Mr G, I 
make no other award against Experian Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0236221