K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains about how TSB Bank  plc has managed her credit card account ending 
6211.
background
Miss R said she rang TSB in February 2018 and asked for the balance on her account 
ending 6211, so she could pay it off. She said that she then paid the full balance. 
Miss R said on 14 February TSB sent her a statement for this account.  She hadnt used the 
card, but there was money owing on the account.  That was made up of interest that had 
accrued on the full balance, before she paid it off. She said that she shouldve  been told 
about this when she asked how much was owing on the card. 
Miss R said that her February statement showed  that she owed a little over £40. The 
statement asked her to pay the full balance  as her minimum payment, but she said that 
looked like a mistake. The minimum payment shouldnt be the full amount owing. So she 
paid £12.93, a little over a quarter of what was owed. 
But Miss R told us that TSB said that didnt cover  the minimum payment. It significantly 
reduced her credit  limit, from £3,000  to £1,250,  with only about a weeks  notice. And then it 
put her account  into collections.
Miss R said that TSB had made  a mistake.  She had tried numerous times to get in touch  
with TSB, but she just couldnt get through. She also said that payments she had made  
since then had been returned to her bank, and she didnt know why. 
Miss R wanted her credit limit to go back up to £3,000,  and wanted  £150 in compensation 
credited to her card. And she wanted TSB to apologise for how it had treated her.
TSB said that Miss R hadnt paid the minimum payment which was due for her February 
statement. So it had applied a late payment fee. It didnt think  that was a mistake. It said that 
it had no evidence that Miss R had tried to make payments  onto her card for May, June or 
July. And it said that it may have reduced  Miss Rs credit limit for a number of reasons.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said she could see that TSB had applied  a 
late payment fee because  Miss R hadnt met her minimum  payment. And Miss R hadnt 
showed she had tried to make payments  for May, June or July, so our investigator said she 
couldnt say that TSB was wrong  to believe the card hadnt been  paid. 
Our investigator noted that there had been a number  of late payments onto the card, and it 
had previously been over its limit a number of times. So our investigator said we couldnt say 
that the reduction in Miss Rs credit  limit in March was as a result of her partial February  
payment. Our investigator said that if Miss R was experiencing financial difficulties, she 
should discuss this with TSB. 
Miss R didnt agree with that. She said she wasnt in financial difficulties.  But she said that 
we hadnt dealt at all with the issue of why her February statement  asked for the full balance 
as a minimum payment.  And she wanted  to know why we hadnt asked her for the bank 
statements which would show she had been  trying to make  her payments onto the card.  
Ref: DRN06337892Our investigator said that Miss R could send more information now if she wanted to. But she 
also hadnt shown  that she had paid her February  balance off in full. 
Miss R said that she wanted her case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Before reaching a provisional  decision  on this case, I asked our investigator to write to 
both sides, to ask for some further  evidence. TSB replied to that request. We didnt get a 
reply from Miss R. 
-My decision was provisional. That meant there  would be an opportunity for further 
evidence to be considered if Miss R wanted to send us a response.
-TSB sent us a number of statements for Miss Rs card account.  I could  see that in the 
year prior to September  2017,  Miss R had been  charged ten overlimit  fees in the 
previous twelve months. Shed  also been charged  nine missed  payment fees.  Her 
account was still overlimit and overdue in October 2017. She brought it back within  its 
limits in November, and then made a very substantial  payment in February.
-Miss R said her February payment was supposed to be enough to clear this card 
completely, and that TSB mustve  given her the wrong figure. She said she was given 
this figure on a call on 8 February.  TSB had told us it had no record of that call. Miss R 
said she could show the call was made,  but she hadnt sent us that evidence. (TSB has 
contacted us since about this, and I will address that further  below.) 
-I dont think that I can conclude that its more  likely than not that Miss R was misled on 
8 February about the amount she would need to pay to clear her card completely. I said 
that was because I didnt seem  to have evidence that this call was made, and because 
the notes TSB has for the call on 9 February suggested that Miss R confirmed the 
outstanding balance then, not the amount required to clear  the account.
-The payment  Miss R made cleared the balance on her card, but when  her February  
statement was issued,  it included £45.37  of interest that had accrued on her balance 
before that large payment was made. The requested minimum payment was also 
£45.37, the full balance owing on the card. 
-Miss R told us that she assumed a request for the full balance as a minimum payment 
was just a mistake by TSB. So she paid about a quarter of what TSB asked for.
-I didnt think this was a mistake by TSB.  The reason why the requested payment was so 
high was set out on the statement itself. That explains how the minimum payment will be 
worked out. It says that the minimum will always be one of the following: 2% of the 
statement balance, £5, or the full balance if less than £5 .. or, if more, an amount equal 
to the total of interest  or other items  as listed. 
-Miss Rs statement balance was made  up entirely of interest. If her interest amount on 
any statement was over £5, and over 2% of the statement balance, as well as the other  
Ref: DRN06337893listed factors, then she would be asked to pay all the interest  she owed as a minimum 
payment. Thats  why TSB was asking for the full amount. It was following the terms set 
out on her statement.  
-It did seem as if Miss R made a mistake about  this. TSB said that if there was any 
confusion, then Miss R couldve  contacted it to check how much  she needed to pay. 
Miss R told us that this wasnt practical, because it was taking a very long time to get 
through to anyone  to discuss her card. But I noted that on 20 February  she spoke to TSB 
about her other card account, which she was in the process of closing. So I thought she 
could also have  checked then whether the amount she was proposing to pay would 
cover her minimum  payment  on this card. There was no suggestion  she did that.
-I thought that Miss R didnt make the full minimum  payment  in February. Her March 
statement also showed shed started  to make  use of the card again, and owed well over 
£1,000 at the end of this statement  period. In response to this, TSB decided, around  the 
same time as it issued  her March statement, to reduce her credit  limit. 
-TSB said that Miss R owed £1,229.61  on 14 March, and it gave  her notice that it was 
going to reduce her limit to £1,250  a week  later.  TSB was aware that Mss R was using 
the card, and it had reduced  Miss Rs limit to just over her balance.  
-I realised that TSB would be in a difficult position  whenever it reduces the limit on 
someones credit card. But TSB was asking Miss R to make  a change to her existing 
spending and budgeting, and it didnt give her a great deal of notice of that change.  So I 
didnt think it was then fair and reasonable for TSB to charge  an overlimit fee in that 
same statement month. I thought that TSB should return the fee of £12 that it charged for 
this, and it should pay Miss R £50 for the stress  that this caused to her.
-Miss R said she made payments in May, June, and July, but these were returned  to her 
bank. Although our service has asked for these, I didnt  have copies of Miss Rs 
statements from this other bank, so I didnt  have clear evidence  of whether these 
payments were made,  and why they may have  been returned.  I set out my view on the 
evidence that was available to me. 
-TSB suggested that Miss Rs payments may not have cleared because  there werent  
enough funds  in her bank. It mentioned  the previous  problems on her account.  
-I could see that Miss Rs card number  had changed over this period. There  was a new 
card number  on her March statement, then again on her June statement. So I thought 
about whether  this might have caused the problem. 
-TSB said that a change to the card number shouldnt mean Miss Rs payments  were 
returned. And that didnt seem to explain what I could see on her statements. Miss R 
made two payments  onto her card in March that reached her account, then one in mid 
April, which shows on her May statement. So it didnt look as if the first change  to 
Miss Rs card number caused  problems  with her payments. That suggested  it was 
unlikely that a second change was the reason why her payments didnt credit to her 
account. 
-There was no payment showing on either Miss Rs June  statement  or on her July 
statement. I didnt think that I could decide  that it was more  likely than not that Miss R 
tried to make these payments without evidence that she tried.  
Ref: DRN06337894-I also noted that even if payments onto Miss Rs card had been  returned in June, that 
wouldnt explain why a payment wasnt made in July. If Miss R had been trying to pay 
her card,  then I would expect her to be aware  of any problems once the payment was 
returned, or, at the latest, by the date of her June card account statement. So she would  
then have been able to take other steps  to make  a payment.  There were a number of 
options set out on her statements for making payments. 
-I said I would consider any further  evidence on this point, but I wasnt  currently  able to 
say that it was more  likely that TSB was responsible for missed payments during  
Miss Rs June and July statement periods, or that Miss R had taken all reasonable steps  
to make sure that her card account  was paid. 
-Id explained  that I did think that TSB made a mistake when it reduced the credit limit so 
sharply, on a card that was in use, with little notice, and then charged Miss R a fee for 
going over her limit. But after this, I thought  that it was reasonable to expect that Miss R 
would start to pay down her card, and would keep  making payments. For the reasons Id 
set out above,  I thought that the remaining fees on her account werent unreasonable.  
And I didnt think that TSB had to remove  Miss Rs account  from its collections process.
-I knew that Miss R wanted  her credit limit to be put back up. But I didnt think  it would  be 
reasonable to ask TSB to do that. It may have made a mistake with the speed and scale 
of the reduction  it made and its subsequent charges, but I didnt think I could conclude  it 
was unfair or unreasonable overall  to reduce Miss Rs limit. And I said that our service 
doesnt usually  interfere with lending decisions made by banks. We would usually say 
that its for the bank itself to assess the risk, and decide how much it wants  to lend. I 
hadnt seen anything in this case that made  me think I should deviate from that usual 
approach. So I wouldnt ask TSB to put Miss Rs credit limit back up.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss R accepted my provisional decision. TSB replied, to make  a point about the call that 
Miss R had made to it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
TSB noted  that I had said that it had no record of Miss R calling it on 8 February. But it said 
that it had since  been able to find a record of that call. It had listened  to it, and that was the 
call Id said was on 9 February, where  Miss R confirmed the outstanding balance,  not the 
amount required  to clear  the account. 
I do think that there has been some confusion on this point between our service  and TSB. 
TSB has said its sorry about this, and Id like to add my apology  too. Both TSB and I now 
accept that Miss R did call TSB on 8 February, as she had said.
Unfortunately, I dont think this changes the position for Miss R. Shes  still had the same 
conversation with TSB that I took into account  in my provisional decision. It just happened  a 
day earlier than I thought.
Ref: DRN06337895Miss R said her February payment was supposed  to be enough to clear this card completely, 
and that TSB mustve given her the wrong figure on this call. But the call notes still suggest 
to me that what Miss R confirmed on that call was the outstanding balance  of her card, not 
the amount required to clear the account.  So I cant say that TSB is responsible  for the fact 
that the payment that Miss R subsequently made  didnt also clear  the accumulated interest. 
For the avoidance of any doubt,  the rest of my provisional decision remains unchanged. I still 
think that TSB should not have reduced  the credit  limit on Miss Rs card so sharply, with little 
notice and while she was using the card, and then charged Miss R a fee for going  over her 
limit. So Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must refund one overlimit  fee of £12, and pay Miss R 
£50 in compensation. TSB Bank plc can use this money to reduce Miss Rs debt to it, if it 
wishes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0633789