K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about Metro Bank PLC (Metro) rejecting a payment into her bank account, 
then closing the account without giving reasons. Miss P says those actions were motivated 
by discrimination. She wants Metro to re-open  her account and explain why it rejected the 
payment.
Miss P is bringing this complaint on behalf  of her business, A Limited.
background
On 19 January 2018, Miss P received  a payment of £50,000 into her account. Metro rejected 
the payment and issued a notice to Miss P saying her account  would be closed in seven 
days, following  a review.
Miss P complained, saying she was unhappy Metro had closed her account without notice or 
reasons. She said it was difficult for her to open  a new bank account because  the only 
identification she has is a Refugee Travel Document, which many banks dont accept. And 
that Metros actions were  discriminatory.
Our investigator thought Metro was entitled to close Miss Ps account. And that it was 
entitled to refuse to accept the £50,000 payment. He said Metro had acted in accordance  
with its terms  of business when it did so, and that it wasnt obliged to tell Miss P the reasons 
for its actions. Finally, he said he couldnt see any evidence  to suggest Metro  had treated 
Miss P less favourably because of a protected characteristic.
Miss P rejected our investigators  opinion and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
matter afresh.
In May 2019, I issued  a provisional  decision.  In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Miss Ps complaint, Im 
minded to reach the same conclusion as that of our investigator, but for slightly different 
reasons.
rejected payment
Under the terms of business that govern Miss Ps account, Metro  is entitled  to refuse 
payments into her account. And it doesnt have to give reasons for doing so, or notice that it 
intends to do so. This is true of all banks and is necessary in order to enable them to comply  
with their legal  and regulatory obligations.
When I look at complaints such as this, I have to examine whether the bank acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions, and whether it acted reasonably in applying  those  
terms. In this instance, Metro did act in accordance with its terms of business and, based on 
the information it has provided me with, I dont  think it acted unreasonably in doing so. 
As such,  while I do not underestimate the frustration and inconvenience Miss P experienced 
as a result  of Metro  rejecting the £50,000  payment, I cannot  say it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in doing so.
Ref: DRN07258962account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ps account   which  both Metro  and Miss P had to comply 
with  say that Metro  could close the account  immediately  if Miss P made  any statement 
when applying to open an account  which is false  or misleading. And Metro says Miss P 
failed to provide  material  details  about her business  when  she opened the account.
Metro has sent me an account opening  form, signed  by Miss P. The section  entitled  
Detailed Description of Activities says Miss Ps business is a consultancy  business that 
assists family offices in dealing with financial, legal and property  related  matters
Whereas Miss Ps website says that her business  provides discreet bespoke legal, financial 
and reputation management  solutions,  with an emphasis on politically sensitive matters, for
Ref: DRN07258963a select group of corporations and individuals from across the globe.
There are similarities between the description  Miss P gave on the account opening form and 
the description on Miss Ps website: both confirm the company handles  legal and financial 
matters. But there are also crucial differences.  The account opening form provides that the 
business assists family offices whereas  the business website says it has an emphasis on 
politically sensitive matters, for a select group of corporations and individuals  across  the 
globe.
In my determination, Metro was entitled to say that describing a business that has an 
emphasis on politically sensitive matters  as one that assists  family offices  in dealing with 
financial, legal and property related matters was either false or misleading. Based on the 
information Metro  had, it was not told that Miss Ps business specialised  in international, 
politically sensitive matters. That is a material matter  that Metro  may have wanted to 
consider when determining if it would provide banking services to Miss P.
To be clear, I am not saying whether or not Metro  would have decided to provide banking 
services to Miss P, had she provided  it with the description of her business  from her website.
Nor am I suggesting  that Miss P deliberately made a false  or misleading  statement.  I am 
simply saying  that Metro was entitled  to close Miss Ps account,  in accordance with its terms 
and conditions, in light of the circumstances  of this case.
I know Miss P is frustrated that she wasnt given a proper explanation as to why her account 
was closed. And that she feels  very strongly  about her complaint. But under the terms and 
conditions, Metro doesnt have to give a reason  for doing so  in the same way a customer 
doesnt have to, should they no longer want to bank with them. So I cant  say Metro  did 
anything wrong  by not giving Miss P this information when she complained.
discrimination
Miss P has also suggested Metros  actions were motivated  by discrimination, as she is a 
refugee. I appreciate Miss P thinks Metro discriminated against her when  it took the action it 
did. I dont underestimate  her strength of feeling about this matter, but I find nothing  to 
indicate that this was the reason Miss Ps account was closed.
The bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services  to. It cannot 
unfairly discriminate  against a customer. But it can say it no longer wishes to do business  
with individuals.  Thats because  it has the commercial freedom to decide who it wants  to 
contract with.
Metro has explained  the reasons for its decision to close Miss Ps account to me. And Im 
satisfied that Metro has exercised its commercial decision legitimately when it decided to 
close Miss Ps accounts. I have  not seen any evidence of discrimination, so I cannot fairly 
and reasonably say its done anything wrong.
In summary,  I know my decision will come as a great  frustration and disappointment to Miss 
P. And I note the comments shes made to the investigator about how this has all affected  
her business. So I should make  it clear that this is an informal  dispute resolution  service. We 
dont have the same powers as a court  for instance to take evidence on oath. And, while 
we take relevant law, regulation and good  practice into account, we consider what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And having looked at whats happened here I dont think 
Metro treated Miss P unfairly.
Ref: DRN07258964I asked Miss P and Metro  to provide any further submissions or evidence by 31 May 2019.  
Miss P contacted us on 4 June  2019 to ask for the deadline to be moved back to 11 June, 
which was agreed.  However, neither Metro nor Miss P responded with any further  
information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss P nor Metro made any further comments, or offered any more  evidence, my 
findings about this complaint havent  changed. It follows that I do not uphold  Miss Ps 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept or
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Ref: DRN0725896