K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  which Mrs B 
says she was mis-sold. 
Bank of Scotland plc is now responsible for the sale but the policy  was originally sold by The 
Leeds Permanent Building Society.  Halifax has since been responding to Mrs B about this 
complaint so to keep  things consistent Ill refer mainly  to Halifax.
Also, I would like to make clear that this decision  is about a 1991  PPI sale. A later PPI policy 
(with another  mortgage Mrs B had) has been settled between the parties without our 
involvement.
Im sorry  Mrs B has had to wait a while before her complaint has been seen by an 
ombudsman. 
background
I also see Halifax has already agreed  to pay Mrs B some money in relation  to part of the 
commission it received from selling the 1991  PPI to her. 
However one of our adjudicators said the complaint  about  the policy actually being mis-sold 
in the first place shouldnt  be upheld. Mrs B still thinks  PPI the cover was mis-sold and so 
her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this mis-sale complaint. 
I acknowledge that Mrs B has put a lot of work into making this complaint and in 
comprehensively explaining what she thinks happened.  I recognise this will have taken up 
much of her time and Id like to thank her for explaining things so clearly.  Id also seek to 
provide her with reassurance that I fully understand the points she is making.
Nevertheless, this sale was some 28 years  ago now. I therefore think  its reasonable for me 
to bear this in mind  and accept that whilst  we may not still have access to everything that 
was done or discussed, this isnt particularly unusual given how long ago we are talking 
about. I think its also reasonable  that I make some  assumptions about the sale based  on 
my experiences of similar cases and the particular business we are dealing with. I know 
Mrs B has raised some objections  to our adjudicator doing this, but Im afraid that after so 
long its quite normal for us to look at what is more likely to have  happened  when we cant  
have access to all the original records.
In that context, Mrs B herself acknowledges the sale was a considerable time ago and that 
remembering some  of the details of what  happened  is challenging. However, her points  of 
complaint relate broadly to two main issues. 
Ref: DRN07154642Firstly, Mrs B is concerned that some of the original documentation implies  she didnt ever 
agree to have  PPI with her 1991  mortgage. Her second main  area of concern is that the 
PPI wasnt something she needed.  She feels her job (and that of her subsequent partner on 
the mortgage)  came  with such good  forms of protections, that PPI wasnt needed.  She 
thinks this is strengthened  somewhat  by their wider financial  position  which  included  
savings and other financial means, by which she could  pay her mortgage  without the need  
for PPI.
Im afraid I dont agree with Mrs Bs opinion on the first of these issues.  She says that PPI 
was obviously discussed   but then rejected by her as not being something  she required. 
Her interpretation of this comes largely from her Mortgage Application Form, which  we have 
a copy of. This had a section on it where the advisor was able to record some  handwritten  
notes. The notes in question say no pp required  and Mrs B says pp must mean payment 
protection.
I could speculate, just as Mrs B has done, on what pp could mean on the form. And I see, 
for example, that this handwritten note is made within a longer  paragraph  specifically 
referring to a previous partners involvement  in her mortgage  pp could  therefore  mean  a 
number of different  things  including  a reference  to the signature  of another. I also note the 
same Mortgage Application Form describes PPI as Leeds Care rather than initialising it in 
the way Mrs B speculates. Other documentation  Ive seen also says Leeds Care was 
recommended to - and indeed accepted by - Mrs B, during the course  of her mortgage 
application.
Im not entirely clear if Mrs B is saying this type of PPI cover was added completely without 
her consent  or knowledge or whether the above just adds weight to things not being carried 
out correctly by the adviser. But there are other indications  which  tend to show,  quite 
strongly in my view,  that the PPI wasnt added without her consent or knowledge.  
For example, I see that after her Mortgage  Application, Mrs B was sent a letter enclosing a 
Leeds Care Income  Proposal . To me this goes some way to help confirm that she had 
been recommended  the PPI policy and had probably agreed  to it as per the notes  on the 
form, described above. And I think if she hadnt  agreed, she would have wanted to know 
why she was being sent this letter. 
Further to this, I see it was discussed  that Mrs B opted for only accident and sickness 
cover, rather  than the more common accident, sickness  and unemployment protection. 
Again, in my view this adds weight to the cover being discussed  and her opting for a level of 
protection that suited her circumstances.
In short,  I accept some of the documents we still have access do require an interpretation to 
decide what is more  likely  to have taken place rather than giving us a definitive  answer.  But 
I think theres solid evidence to show that this type of cover  was discussed and that Mrs B 
agreed to it, knowing the price and agreeing to the £3.00 premium to be drawn  monthly 
from her bank account.
I think she knew about and consented  to buying the PPI cover.
I then went on to consider  what Mrs B says about  not needing this type of PPI cover.  Ive 
taken into account  what shes  said about  her job and savings and whilst I agree she 
appeared to have good employment prospects at the time, this doesnt  mean  to say she 
didnt face the prospect of losing  her job or that the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ref: DRN07154643Overall, I think the PPI was suitable  for her, not least because the mortgage was secured 
against her home. So the prospect of not being able to keep up with the repayments could 
have been serious.  In the event of a successful claim, the cover  she bought was capable  of 
paying up to £200 per month for up to 12 months  and this would have been in addition  to 
any other means she already had in place  at the time. 
So although  I cant say why Mrs B decided to buy this policy,  I dont  think  Halifax  
recommending it to her was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm  after such a long time if she was told everything she ought  to have 
been. But I can see the costs of the PPI appear  to have been provided, as were some brief 
details about what was covered. So I think she had enough information  on which to make 
an informed decision.  I note she kept it for quite a few years thereafter.
I dont doubt that Mrs B honestly and genuinely  believes now that the PPI was mis-sold  to 
her. But overall,  I think theres evidence that she engaged in the discussions about this sale 
and went through  a number of steps to get the policy. 
In my view, the 1991 PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. And I dont direct Bank of Scotland plc to pay any more  
compensation. I understand it has already offered Mrs B some  money  in respect  of the 
commission element I mentioned at the beginning. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715464