K820x#14complaint
Miss Ms complaint arises following the transfer  of the value of her benefits  in her employers 
pension scheme  to a personal pension. Advice was given by Rutherford Wilkinson  plc in 
connection with the transfer.  Perspective (North East) Limited  (Perspective) is responsible 
for the advice given.  For convenience Ive just referred to Perspective below. 
background
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on 12 May 2020.  Perspective had said the complaint is about 
the outcome of a Past Business Review (PBR) carried out by a skilled  person appointed by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  under s.166 of the Financial Services  and Markets 
Act (FSMA). Perspective said that isnt a regulated activity and so not something we can 
consider.
I didnt agree with Perspective. Although I accepted  that the PBR wasnt a regulated  activity, 
my view was that Miss M was complaining about the advice shed  received  in connection 
with the transfer,  not the outcome of the PBR. I was satisfied, for the reasons I set out, that 
we could consider  her complaint.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He issued his view on 22 
September 2020. He set out the background to the complaint. To recap:  
On 8 February 2007 Miss M met with Perspective. The adviser  recorded  that Miss M was 41, 
in good health and had a partner. And that she wanted to transfer out of her employers 
pension scheme  because she was concerned about  the death benefits  available; she 
wanted to retire earlier than 65; and she wanted the cash incentive being  offered. 
A Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) was completed on 19 February 2007. This compared  the 
benefits that the employers pension scheme would  provide with what  Miss M might  get if 
she transferred to a personal pension. Shed need  to achieve investment returns of 8.2% pa 
to match  the benefits of the employers scheme.  
A Pension  Transfer Report  was sent to Miss M on 21 February  2007.  It explained the 
transfer value  shed been offered included an enhancement of £6,153.01  plus a further  
£1,743.27, which Miss M could take as a cash sum if she wanted. The report  recorded her 
objectives and the options that were  available to her. 
The report  included the advisers recommendations. He said hed generally regard a critical 
yield in excess of 7% pa as unacceptably high. Based on the critical yield,  he couldnt  
recommend that Miss M transfer to a personal pension  plan.  He went on to say that advice 
was on the basis  that the employer was financially sound and able to support the pension  
scheme on an ongoing basis. But, having carried out a review  of the financial information 
relating to the company  and in the public  domain,  the company had sustained substantial  
losses in 2004  and 2005 although it had assets  of just below £3 million. The funding 
statement for the scheme showed that if the scheme was wound  up thered be a deficit of 
about £3.5 million which exceeds  the companys net assets. But benefits (up to 90%)  would  
be protected by the Pension  Protection  Fund. 
Miss M signed a declaration on 21 February  2007 to say she wanted to transfer  her 
employers scheme benefits. 
Ref: DRN09456462On 22 February 2007 the adviser  wrote  to her. He said:  
I am writing to confirm you have decided to not take our advice and instead transfer from 
the [employers  pension scheme] into a personal pension plan. You have done this because  
you want to access the cash incentive.
The adviser also reminded Miss M why he wasnt recommending  the transfer  that the 
scheme benefits are promised at retirement  and investment growth in excess  of 8.2% would 
be required  to exceed those benefits.  The adviser  added that, because Miss M had elected 
to take the cash  incentive, the critical yield would be much greater  but that didnt concern 
Miss M as her prime objective was to access the cash incentive  irrespective  of the effect  this 
had on her retirement income. 
A further  letter was sent on 23 February  2007.  This also confirmed that Miss M had decided
not to take the advice shed been  given and instead  had requested  a transfer  to a personal 
pension with a named  provider. The letter set out why that provider had been  selected.  The 
adviser recommended that Miss M invest in the default fund  the balanced  managed fund 
with a lifestyling  option. Miss M signed the letter on 7 March 2007  to confirm receipt of the 
letter and enclosures.
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary  he said:
He was unable  to look at the PBR as it wasnt a regulated  activity.
He couldnt  comment on why others  had received compensation for the advice theyd  
been given and Miss M hadnt: he could only consider if Perspective had made an 
error in giving advice to Miss M and, if so, whether  that had resulted in a financial 
loss to her.
The documentation  made it clear that the adviser didnt recommend that Miss M 
transfer. 
Miss M had explained that everyone  got the same advice and shed been told she 
might lose her job if she didnt transfer. So there was pressure on employees to 
transfer and an incentive was offered if they did. 
That was significant. Miss M had received  advice that she shouldnt transfer. Even if 
the adviser had done more, Miss M would still have proceeded  with the transfer. That 
was understandable,  given there  was a risk shed  lose her job if she didnt transfer. 
But Perspective wasnt responsible  for that. It hadnt recommended the transfer and 
so it wasnt responsible for any loss Miss M had incurred as a result.  
Miss M was understandably disappointed with that. She said that all employees on the shop 
floor were  given the same  advice about their pension.  They  all talked to each other about it 
and made  the decision  to go ahead together as they all felt obliged to transfer, thinking  their 
jobs were at risk. Wed said Perspective wasnt to blame as it had advised against  and shed 
gone ahead  because of a cash  incentive.  But, knowing she was worried about her job, 
Perspective could  have pointed out more clearly that her job wasnt at risk. Even if it wasnt 
for Perspective to do that, shed have felt better  advised and more reassured  about deciding 
not to transfer.  
She didnt  know anything about pensions  and transfers. Everyone was told not to transfer 
but they all did. And some  had been  compensated. But not others.  That wasnt  
understandable. It wasnt about who got what but how some,  and not others, got 
compensation when everyone had the same advice. Shed asked about how her partner 
might benefit  on her death and about possible early  retirement but those were just normal  
Ref: DRN09456463questions. She thought the cash incentive,  which everyone got, may have been required by 
law. If that wasnt the case, things hadnt been  explained to her properly. 
Perspective said it wasnt able to comment on whether Miss Ms job was at risk or if shed  
have lost it if she hadnt transferred. That was outside the limits of its role as a financial 
adviser and something  for discussion between Miss M and her employer. But it was aware 
that around 30 employees had been made redundant  by the employer in the 24 months prior 
to the transfer  exercise. But, regardless of the position with her job, it wasnt in Miss Ms 
interests to transfer and that was the advice given. 
Perspective also said it had stressed the benefits of the employers scheme to members 
when giving the advice. But the employer was keen to encourage transfers as the pension 
scheme was its single largest  overhead.  Perspective  produced  a presentation  it said had 
been given to employees before Perspective had become involved. Im not sure if Miss M 
saw it so I havent based my findings  on that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ms unhappiness.  She, in common with other colleagues, transferred 
the value of her benefits in the employers pension scheme to a personal  pension. The PBR 
looked at the advice  given  and what Perspective had done and concluded that, in some 
cases, compensation was due. But not in Miss Ms case. Shes made  it very clear all 
employees were in the same boat  and decided together  to go ahead  with the transfers. 
Miss M naturally feels its unfair and illogical  that some  have  received  compensation and not 
others. 
But, as the investigator  explained, the PBR isnt a regulated activity and so it isnt something 
we can look into. That means we cant approach Miss Ms complaint on the basis  that the 
outcome of the PBR was wrong  and that she should have got compensation. 
Id add that, despite what Miss M has said about  all employees being in the same  position, 
the personal and financial  circumstances for each employee will be different. Factors  such 
as age, length of service,  objectives and overall financial situation will differ from person to 
person and will impact on whether, for the particular employee, the advice was suitable or 
otherwise. But I mention  that largely in passing because,  as Ive explained, Im unable to 
look at the PBR or consider if the outcome reached  in Miss Ms case was the right one.
In considering Miss Ms complaint, Ive concentrated on the advice she was given. 
I agree  with the investigator that Perspectives  advice was clear  that Miss M shouldnt 
transfer. And the reason  was clear too  that the transfer value offered was unlikely to 
provide benefits  that matched those Miss M would be giving up in the employers scheme  
which meant shed  likely be worse  off at retirement  if she transferred. Miss M knew, if she 
went ahead  with the transfer, that shed be doing so against Perspectives advice. 
That meant Miss M was an insistent  client  one who wanted to proceed despite advice to 
the contrary. 
Ref: DRN09456464At the time there was no specific provision in the COB (Conduct of Business) rules about 
dealing with insistent  clients. COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 9.5A now provides 
additional guidance for firms with insistent  clients. 
That doesnt  mean that, prior to then, the regulator  had no expectations as to how firms 
should deal with insistent clients. As far back as 1994 a former regulator (FIMBRA) 
published guidance (about pension transfers and opt outs) which included the following:
The investors decision to override the advisers recommendation should also be credibly
evidenced. Disclaimer forms and pre-printed letters using  stock phrases should not be used
since they case doubt upon  the genuineness of the process. A note from the customer in his
own words is best.
Firms were also reminded of the need  to keep records as to the number of insistent clients  to 
highlight possible credibility issues.  
Miss M did sign the declaration on 21 February  2007 saying she wanted  to proceed contrary 
to the advice shed been given. And Perspective reminded her, more than once, that it didnt 
recommend the transfer and why. But I dont  really agree that Perspective  stressed  the 
benefits of the employers  scheme. Or did as much as it could to establish and record, 
preferably in Miss Ms own words,  why she wanted  to proceed, despite advice to the 
contrary. I would have thought, given what Miss M has since  said, that if her reasons for 
wanting to transfer anyway  had been  fully explored, what shed  been  told by her employer 
would have featured. 
But I dont think that or other issues, such as whether the incentive payments were properly 
explained, would have made  any difference to the outcome.  
Miss M says Perspective should have pointed out that her job wasnt at risk. But what 
happened about her job was up to her employer, not Perspective. Perspective was unable to 
reassure Miss M about that. And, from what Miss M herself says, her job was under threat. 
Thered been  earlier redundancies and it seems the employers future  was uncertain if it was 
unable to reduce  its outgoings and, in particular, those in connection with its pension  
scheme.  
By transferring Miss M was putting  her retirement  benefits at risk. She was 41 at the time 
and so some  way off retiring. Shes admitted that she was worried  about her job security 
and, from what Ive seen,  she had reason to be concerned. I think shed have put retaining 
her job above her pension. Her decision to transfer was driven  by her concerns about her job 
and her wish to preserve  her future employment and financial security.  
All in all and on balance I think shed have transferred in any event. 
Any failings on Perspectives part havent caused  any financial losses  that Miss M may have 
suffered by transferring out of her employers pension scheme. On that basis  Im unable  to 
uphold her complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Ref: DRN09456465Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0945646