K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc havent  paid out funds held in a tax exempt special 
savings account  (TESSA)  to her.
Background
In August  2018  Mrs C complained to Santander about a TESSA  she had, saying she didnt 
close the account, or receive the balance in the account of around  £4,800.
Santander say the only records they hold show the money was transferred to a savings 
account in February  1999, and a cheque would  have then been sent out to Mrs C. This was 
held in Mrs Cs previous name, and they add this was in line with their processes. They  also 
said the only reason  they know what happened is because they paid tax on the account at 
the time.  But because  theyre only required to keep records for six years, they cant confirm 
what happened to the money  afterwards.
Mrs C was unhappy with this, as shes adamant she never received the money, so she 
asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, and didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  He said although he couldnt  be certain what  happened  because of the 
time thats  passed,  he felt it most likely  Mrs C had the money.  He said he thought  Santander 
probably did open an account in her name and pay the money into that when the TESSA 
matured.
Mrs C didnt agree with this. She felt the money should have been transferred to her existing 
savings account,  not a new one. And she repeated her concerns about Santander having 
information about the TESSA being closed, but not where the money then went  arguing  
thats considerably  more  important. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs C feels very strongly about  this. Thats understandable  given were  talking 
about several thousand pounds. But based on all the facts of the case I dont  think 
Santander are required  to do anything further which I know will be very disappointing to 
Mrs C. Ill explain  why.
As Mrs C has acknowledged in her correspondence  to us its not just her in this situation  
this is something that does come up from time to time. My general expectation is that a bank 
would carry out searches  to establish  its tried to find the account,  and provide  those  pieces 
of information  to us.
In this case, Santander have provided  the information about  the TESSA maturing. This is the 
same information Mrs C was given. This shows the money was transferred to a savings 
account in Mrs Cs name, and Santander  say a cheque was raised. 
Mrs C is concerned that Santander  can show  the funds from the TESSA were transferred to 
a separate savings account. But cant show what then happened afterwards to the money, 
which she says is more  important.
Ref: DRN07554762Its unclear exactly why the money  would be transferred, and then a cheque raised as 
Santander havent explained that  but I dont think thats unreasonable.
The TESSA  matured in February 1999.  At the time Mrs C raised the issue 19 years had 
passed. Under the circumstances  I dont find it unusual, or unreasonable,  that Santander 
cant provide detailed explanations for processes that took place so long ago. Nor do I find it 
unreasonable they cant provide more  detailed information about Mrs Cs accounts at the 
time  as they are only required to hold information for around six years.
Ultimately where theres not enough  evidence  to show what did happen,  I need  to make a 
finding based on what I think is more likely than not.
Santander have  shown the money was transferred. Mrs C says she never transferred it, so 
isnt happy they did it without her say so. Given the time thats passed I think  its possible 
Mrs C knew or accepted the money  would be transferred and has just forgotten  memories  
can and do fade over time.  
Taking into account all the facts  of this case, I think its more likely than not that Mrs C did 
receive the funds  from her TESSA  so I dont require Santander  to do anything  to put this 
right.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0755476