K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains about how Covea  Insurance Plc has dealt with a claim made on her motor  
insurance policy. She wants her claim progressed,  her claims history restored and a 
contribution towards  her increased premium.  
background
Mrs N was involved in an incident with a van which she said was the other drivers fault. She 
said the van had CCTV cameras that recorded the incident and would show that she wasnt  
at fault. Mrs N reported the incident to her broker, but Covea said it didnt learn of the 
incident until a month  later. 
The other drivers representative wrote to Mrs N holding her at fault.  Mrs N later called 
Covea which  then sought the CCTV footage, but without  success.  Mrs N said Covea hadnt  
told it whether it was dealing with her claim and her repairs. Mrs N said her premium  with a 
new insurer was much higher because of the claim. Covea said it had tried to obtain the 
CCTV footage  but without  success. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought Covea 
had reasonably tried to obtain the CCTV footage.  She thought the other insurer  hadnt 
contacted Covea to make a claim and Covea wouldnt contact it in case  this prompted  a 
claim. In the interim,  the claim was recorded as outstanding. She thought  Mrs N hadnt paid 
her policy excess and no claim  had been made against her, so Covea hadnt anything to 
progress. And so the adjudicator thought Covea had no need to contact Mrs N to provide 
updates. 
Mrs N replied that Covea should  have contacted the other  insurer  or the representative to 
obtain the CCTV footage. She said she hadnt  paid her excess because  she hadnt  been 
asked to and her car remained  unrepaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N first reported  the incident  to her broker. She later found that the broker  hadnt 
informed Covea and that it had no record of the incident. I can understand Mrs Ns 
frustration, but the broker is a separate business to Covea and I cant consider its actions 
here. If Mrs N is unhappy with the brokers actions then she should complain directly to it. 
Mrs N said she wanted written confirmation  from Covea that it was dealing with her claim. 
From Coveas records, it seems that Mrs N first told it that she didnt want to claim on her 
policy but wanted Covea to pursue the other  driver whose representative was holding her at 
fault. The advisor then said she would send  Mrs N a letter  to confirm the notification.  But I 
cant see that this was sent. 
But I can see that Covea  sent Mrs N an email on 30 October 2018 to confirm that it was 
dealing with the claim and that it was pursuing  the CCTV footage. The advisor  apologised for 
this lack of communication. I can appreciate Mrs Ns frustration that the expected  
confirmation wasnt sent sooner, but I cant see that this affected  the progress of the claim.  
Ref: DRN03497832I can see that when  Covea was told about  the incident, it tried to get a copy  of the CCTV 
footage from the van. It identified the responsible  person at the vans employer  and 
contacted her directly.  But it was told the footage had been over-written. I appreciate that 
this footage would have  helped defend  the claim,  but I think Covea acted as soon as it could 
to try to obtain it. I think it pursued this reasonably. And so I cant hold it responsible for its 
loss.
The other drivers representative wrote to Mrs N holding her at fault.  But the other  drivers 
insurer didnt make a claim to Covea. I dont  think its unusual for an insurer  not to actively  
pursue another insurer as this may prompt a claim. By doing  nothing  Covea may in this 
instance have  been acting  in Mrs Ns best interests.  Our adjudicator explained  that in the 
absence of sufficient  evidence a 50/50  split liability settlement would be the likely outcome. 
And this would be recorded as a fault against  Mrs N. As it turned out, the other insurer  didnt 
make a claim and this section of the claim has been  closed.
But, as far as I can see, the claim is still recorded  as outstanding in case Mrs N makes a 
claim for her repairs. As I said above, when Mrs N first called Covea about the accident she 
said she was holding  off making a claim  for repairs until she had an admission of liability 
from the other driver.  
Towards the end of this call, the advisor  confirmed that Mrs N didnt want  to make a claim 
until they had an admission of liability so I wouldnt expect her to arrange  for repairs. The 
advisor said that Mrs N could make a claim at any time. Mrs N said the repairs  might be less 
than her excess. In this case a claim wouldnt be needed unless an admission of liability was 
obtained. 
Ive listened to all the calls Mrs N had with Covea but I havent heard Mrs N tell Covea that 
she wanted to make a claim for her repairs. Mrs N later said that her repairs would cost £300 
and she wanted  Covea to pay for this as she thought  it was responsible  for not obtaining the 
CCTV footage  that would hold the other driver at fault. But, as Ive explained above, I dont 
think Covea was responsible for not obtaining the CCTV footage.  And so I cant  say that it 
should be responsible for the cost of Mrs Ns repairs.
Mrs N thought Covea  should have contacted the other drivers  representative  for a copy of 
the footage. But Coveas  advisor explained  that it wouldnt be obliged to provide this, if 
indeed it had it. In any case, Mrs N hadnt made a claim and so Covea had no outlay to 
pursue. And the other insurer  hadnt made a claim against Mrs N, so there was no liability to 
defend. So I wouldnt  expect Covea to do anything further at present. 
Covea still has the claim recorded  as outstanding. I think  its for Mrs N to make a claim for 
repairs and pay her policy excess or tell Covea that she wont be making a claim. This would 
allow the complaint  to be closed and settled as fault, if Covea is unable to recover  its outlay, 
or for notification only if Mrs N doesnt make a claim.   
Mrs N said her premium  at a new insurer had increased substantially. But as this is a 
different company to Covea, I cant consider that here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN03497833Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0349783