K820x#14your complaint
Mr J complains about the drop in the value  of his retirement fund with The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited (Royal London) when he transferred his plan to a new 
provider. He believes the original value quoted within a retirement pack  should have been 
the minimum amount  that was transferred. He also complains that he should have been 
advised about the reduction in value prior to the transfer.
background
Mr J held a stakeholder pension plan with Royal London. As this was part of a group 
stakeholder plan Mr J was still making regular contributions. In July 2018  Royal  London 
issued Mr J with a retirement pack, which confirmed that his selected retirement date (SRD) 
was 28 September  2018 and that the value of his plan was £164,317.59. The pack  set out 
the options available to Mr J in retirement  and recommended that he sought financial  advice . 
At the time the retirement pack was issued to Mr J he was mainly  invested in a global index  
equity fund, although around 16% of the pension was invested  across a fixed interest fund 
and a deposit fund.
Subsequently Mr J engaged a financial adviser  to assist him with his retirement planning.  
The adviser contacted Royal London and was provided with a summary  of the plan. This 
confirmed the value to be £168,494.40 which Royal London said wasnt guaranteed.
Royal London then received Mr Js completed request to transfer  to another provider on 
9 October 2018, and on 17 October 2018 a sum of 157,959.90 was transferred to the new 
provider.
Mr J complained to Royal  London as he believed  the value he was given in the retirement  
pack should have  been guaranteed at that point and should have been  at least the amount 
to be transferred. He didnt think it was fair that hed lost around £7,000 because  of the fall in 
the plans  value. But Royal London  didnt uphold  Mr Js complaint.  It said hed been given a 
number of risk warnings that the value of the plan could fall as well as rise until the time it 
was transferred. And it said his adviser  had been given similar information with risk warnings 
included.
But Mr J remained  unhappy with the outcome and he brought his complaint to us where one 
of our adjudicators looked into the matter.  He said the complaint should not be upheld  and 
made the following points:
There hadnt been any recent  changes to Mr Js plan and it had always fluctuated  in 
line with the performance of the underlying investments. There was nothing to state 
that any guarantees applied to the plan.
The retirement pack included a number of booklets. One of which confirmed there  
was a risk that the value of the plan could fall until benefits  were eventually  
transferred.
The plan did increase in value between  the time of the figure  quoted in the retirement 
pack and a value  that was provided to Mr Js adviser  a couple of months  later. So it 
was clear the value  could fluctuate.  The adjudicator said he would have  expected the 
adviser to have discussed the situation with Mr J before deciding  what to do.
After it received Mr Js transfer request the adjudicator thought Royal  London 
completed the transfer in a reasonable timeframe and didnt cause  any delays.
Ref: DRN09811122Mr J didnt agree as he believed the retirement  pack didnt confirm that the fund value wasnt 
guaranteed. He said he was aware that the value  of his pension could fluctuate but assumed 
the figure hed been quoted was the minimum he would receive.  He thinks Royal London 
should have made him aware that the funds were at risk and should also have advised him 
of the value before it transferred the benefits  to confirm he still wanted to go ahead with the 
lower valuation. Mr J said he wanted  an ombudsman  to review his complaint. So its been  
passed to me for a review  and a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. I know  this outcome will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr J so Ill explain my reasoning. 
Should Royal London have guaranteed the valuation in the retirement pack?
Mr J says that when Royal London wrote to him in July 2018  and gave him a plan 
valuation  it didnt  say that value  wasnt guaranteed.  And as he was still paying  into the plan 
he assumed that would be the minimum value he could expect to receive. He says its not 
fair hes lost around  £7,000 and wants Royal London to honour the first valuation it gave 
him. 
The plan booklet that was available to Mr J when he took out his plan  as part of a group 
scheme, explained that Your transfer  date will be the business day we receive your written  
instructions and the last of any other documentation or information that we require  or if later,  
an alternative date that you specify.  We will calculate the amount available  to transfer at your 
transfer date. This amount will be equal  to the value of the units held by your plan as at that
date plus any proportionate additional units as described in section 7.5 and less any 
proportionate investment  fund charge as described in section 7.4 calculated according to 
section 6.3. At the same time, we will cancel these units  and transfer the proceeds.
In addition the key features document for the plan explained the risks of investing and said 
we cannot guarantee what you will get back at your chosen retirement date. Various factors  
can alter your plan value. For example  investment returns are never guaranteed. This 
means the value  of your investment can go down as well as up
So I think Royal London made Mr J aware  that  when he decided to complete the transfer  
the value of the benefits would be calculated based on the unit prices in force  when it had 
received all of his completed paperwork.   Ive looked at the booklet very carefully  and I can 
see no suggestion that there were any guarantees attached to the value of the pension plan 
at any point. I think that, based on what  Ive seen, Mr J was made aware that the value of his 
plan could fluctuate and if that situation ever changed and guarantees were included,  I 
would expect Royal London to confirm such changes  which it didnt.
Theres no suggestion in any of the paperwork Mr J received that the value of his plan would  
be guaranteed,  whereas Ive seen  a number of statements which  did suggest that the value 
wasnt guaranteed.  The section which set out your plan on a page noted the current value 
was £164,317.59 which would suggest  it was subject to change  and wasnt  the final 
guaranteed amount. 
Ref: DRN09811123I know Mr J has said his plan would have  changed in value anyway, because  of the monthly  
contributions he continued to make  for a short time after the retirement pack was received. 
But I wouldnt expect Royal London to have continued to invest those contributions  but to 
have frozen the value  of the rest of his plan. That wouldnt  have been fair to Mr J  and may 
have deprived  him of further growth. I would also expect Royal London to adhere to the 
plans terms and conditions. 
I note that Mr J accepts his plan has fluctuated in value since  hed took it out which  also 
included the period between him receiving  his valuation  in July 2018  and his adviser 
receiving a higher  valuation some months later. Ive seen  a copy  of the letter  that was sent to 
Mr Js adviser  on 3 September  2018 which confirmed a valuation of £168,494.40.The  letter  
also said the values shown above  are not guaranteed and include the value of your clients  
profitshare account. So Mr Js adviser had been  made aware of the different value of the 
plan some weeks after Mr J received his initial retirement pack.
So I dont  think Royal London  had any obligation  to guarantee the value  of Mr Js pension  
when it wrote to him in July 2018, and I havent seen any evidence  to show that it did make 
any guarantees or that it planned to change what it said it would do when Mr J first set up his 
plan.
Should Royal London have contacted Mr J prior to transferring his plan?
Mr J says that, on or before the transfer date, Royal London had a duty of care to contact 
him and make him aware of any fall in the plans value so he could confirm  he still wanted to 
go ahead  with the transfer. He says this would have  enabled him to delay matters if he 
thought it was in his best interests. 
It is clear that with policies  where there are daily changes in unit prices there is no guarantee 
that the value  of the policy will not fall or rise over a period of time,  even  between  the time a 
client returns any outstanding paper  work and the provider  re-calculates  the value. Royal 
London has to process  a large number of pension policies every day and if it had to contact 
an individual where the prices  of the units held had varied slightly  over time (either  up or 
down) then in my opinion  it wouldnt be able to process the instructions  that it had received.
Royal London has decided that for the sake of practicality  it will only re-contact an investor to 
check that they wish to continue to sell their holdings where the value has fallen by more  
than 10% from any earlier  quotes that it had given. 
In my opinion this is not an unreasonable decision  for Royal  London to have taken. If it 
notified investors in the event that unit prices had changed by say just 5% then it would  be 
re-contacting a much larger number of individuals and this would  result  in a significant 
increase in workload  with the delays that this would involve. 
I know Mr J would like Royal  London  to contact  customers where variations occur at a lower 
amount, but I think Royal London had to use some  kind of benchmark figure and I dont think  
the one it has chosen is unreasonable. 
Did Royal London cause  any unnecessary delays to the transfer?
Ive also considered whether Royal London caused any delay over the transfer  of Mr Js 
pension. And Ive seen  that Royal London  received the completed transfer paperwork on 
Ref: DRN098111249 October 2018 and sent funds to the receiving provider on 17 October  2018,  which  is a 
period of seven  working days. In the circumstances I dont think thats an unreasonable  
timescale in which  to complete the transfer  and I dont think Royal  London has caused any 
delays there.
Its unfortunate that between July and October 2018  one of Mr Js funds did fall quite 
significantly thereby  reducing  the overall value  of his plan for transfer.  And I can understand 
how frustrating this must have been for him. 
But I dont think Royal London made  (or should have made) any guarantees to Mr J about 
the value he was provided with initially. I think it did make him aware that the value could 
fluctuate up until the day it re-calculated prior to transfer. And Im not aware of any regulatory 
obligation that Royal London had to make Mr J aware of the fall prior to transferring  other 
than its own policy of advising  consumers  where a value had fallen by more  than 10%,  which 
I think is a reasonable  policy to adopt.  
So I dont  think Royal London  should  have to make  up the shortfall between the valuations  it 
provided Mr J in July and October 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0981112