K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) incorrectly recorded an open  claim on the
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). He says this made it difficult for him to get
insurance elsewhere.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I invited  both parties to let me 
have anything in response they thought  was relevant.
Neither party responded with any comments.
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add I dont  see any reason to depart from the 
findings already  laid out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
complaint
Mr W complains  that Covea Insurance  plc (Covea)  incorrectly recorded  an open claim on the
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). He says this made it difficult  for him to get
insurance elsewhere.
background
Mr W bought  his insurance with Covea through a broker who, for the purpose of this
decision, Ill call AB. The policy began on 17 March 2017 and ran until 16 March 2018.
On 22 February 2018 AB contacted Mr W with an invitation to renew  his policy for the
following year. It offered cover with a different insurer at an annual premium of
£308.59; this was based  on Mr W having  1 years No Claims Bonus (NCB).
Ref: DRN00362192On 9 March 2018 Mr W had an accident, there was no third party involved  and he decided
that he didnt want to claim  through his policy  for the damage to his vehicle. But he did
inform Covea  of the accident  for notification only purposes  (NO).
On 13 March  2018  AB contacted Mr W with a new renewal quotation of £727.15; this cover
was being offered with Covea and was based on Mr W having zero years NCB.
Mr W says that Covea had not closed the claim  properly  when it recorded it on CUE and that
this meant his NCB had been  reduced. So, with claim open  and his NCB reduced,  he was
unable to find alternative  insurance.
He complained to Covea about this. Covea said that it hadnt  closed the claim until 24 April
2018, it apologised for this and sent Mr W a gift as an apology.
Mr W wasnt happy with this as he says that potential new insurers  wouldnt offer him cover
as he had no proof  of NCB and the claim  was still showing as open on CUE. And so he
brought his complaint to this service.
He told us that he relies  on his car to travel  to work  and so needed  his dad to take and
collect him each day. As a result, he would  like to be compensated for the cost of the extra
journeys his dad had to make to do this.
Mr W did buy new insurance through another broker who, for the purpose of this decision, Ill
call ZZ.  He paid the deposit for this on 4 May 2018  and the policy began on 11 May 2018.
Mr W has told us that the policy was bought with zero NCB but was amended once he was
able to prove  his NCB. He says that ZZ made  an extra charge  to make this change and he
shouldnt have had to incur this cost.
The investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint; she felt that Covea hadnt dealt with the claim in
the way it should have. To put things right, she suggested  that Covea should:
pay Mr W £400 in compensation to cover the increased costs of his commute; and
explain why the CUE database shows costs of £29.31.
Covea explained the cost recorded on CUE  was for the apology gift it sent Mr W, when it
responded to his complaint.  But it didnt agree  to the compensation payment. It explained
that itd made a mistake  when it originally upheld  Mr Ws complaint saying the claim had
remained open until 24 April 2018.  This is because, on reviewing its records,  it could see itd
closed the claim correctly from the beginning.
Since the investigator issued her opinion  on the case, Mr W sent us proof of when his new
insurance began, in May 2018. However,  that insurance  was for a different car, not the car
he originally  had insured with Covea.
When asked about this, Mr W said:
his original car wasnt economical  to repair and so he sold it to the garage that assessed it;
he didnt buy his current car until 14 April 2018; and
if the claim had been recorded correctly,  he wouldve been able to use and insure his 
brothers car until he was able to purchase a replacement.
The matter is now with me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what
Ref: DRN00362193happened, Ive based my provisional decision on what I thinks most likely  to have happened
in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues  have been raised, this decision  only addresses those  issues
I consider to be materially  relevant to this complaint.  However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.  Having done so
I have to let Mr W know that Im not currently intending to uphold this complaint, Ill explain
why.
Covea has provided screenshots of its internal system showing the history of the claim.  It
explained that when  sending correspondence  or adding  anything  to the file on its internal
system it has to open  the claim  to complete the work  and then close it again. This action
does not affect what is recorded on CUE. From the evidence sent to us by Covea, I can see
that:
the claim was originally  opened on the system on 9 March 2018;
the claim was closed  on the same day and recorded  as NO at that point;  and
Covea wrote  to Mr W on 9 March 2018 confirming  how itd recorded  the claim.
I have seen an email  from Mr W to Covea on 9 April 2018 asking if the claim had been
closed and, if so, for his NCB  to be allowed. Covea sent a response on the same day
confirming that Mr Ws NCB hadnt been affected. Covea has also provided us with a screen
shot of the claim  details  showing this to be the case. Mr W wanted proof of his NCB  to
provide to potential new insurers and Covea  directed him back to AB to provide  this as this is
its normal procedure.
AB called  Covea on 30 April 2018 asking it to confirm  Mr Ws NCB  in an email to it. And
Covea did this on 1 May 2018.
The only time the information on CUE  is affected by the actions on Coveas  internal system
is when costs are added  or liability is amended. I think  itd be helpful to explain at this point
that the claim closure date recorded  on CUE is only ever the last time the claim was
accessed on its system; it doesnt show a historical  timeline. So Im satisfied the closure date
on CUE relates to when the cost of the apology  gift was added to the file rather than showing
when the claim itself was record on CUE as NO.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Covea  recorded  the claim as it should have.  It
sent a letter to Mr W confirming  this and confirmed  by email  to Mr Ws broker AB how it had
recorded the claim  and that the NCB was unaffected.
Its clear through Mr Ws contact with Covea that he was having some difficulty  in trying to
prove his NCB to potential new insurers. But my role here is to decide  if Covea did
something wrong and if it did what it should  do to put things right.  Having  done so, I dont
uphold his complaint because I think Covea did everything Id expect it to do to help Mr W
with the problems he faced  when trying to purchase new insurance. And so Im not
persuaded that any costs  Mr W incurred while Mr W was uninsured  are because  of
something that Covea got wrong. It follows I wont be asking it to do anything here to put
things right.
I note that Mr W says if the claim was recorded correctly  he wouldve  been able to insure
and use his brothers  car, or that he wouldve bought a new car earlier which  wouldve  meant
he wouldnt have needed his dad to drive him to and from work, and incur  unnecessary
costs. But, for the reasons  set out above, I dont agree  that Covea got anything wrong  in this
matter and so Im not asking it to do anything to put matters  right. However, for the sake  of
completeness, I have  responded  to Mr Ws points about this below to explain why I dont
think I can safely say that this is what is more  likely to have happened in this matter.
Ref: DRN00362194Mr Ws dad was not covered under the policy so his expenses  and time wouldnt be payable 
in this situation.
Mr W didnt have  a car to insure  at the time his renewal was due. It has only very recently 
come to the attention of our service that Mr Ws car was, in fact, written off in the accident on 
9 March 2018.
Mr W didnt mention that he wouldve  insured  his brothers car until it came to our attention 
that his previous car had been written off. And I wouldve expected  this to have been 
mentioned at some  point  to Covea or AB or our service   either when trying to arrange  
insurance for his brothers car and discovering this wasnt  possible or when raising the 
complaint to Covea or our service.
I havent seen any evidence  to support that Mr W wouldve  insured another car earlier than 
the insurance  he eventually bought for his new car. And I havent seen any evidence that he 
was prevented from insuring  another car when  he was ready  to do so. I say this because, 
although he has said he was waiting until the NCB  issue was rectified, he bought his new 
insurance declaring zero NCB and amended this later with his new insurer. 
In any event, Covea sent Mr W a letter when  it first recorded the claim saying that it was 
recorded as notification only. And it also confirmed the position  to his broker by email.  This 
means that Mr W couldve provided  this to any new insurer and it couldve  contacted  Covea 
for verification if it needed to.
So, even if I thought that Covea had recorded the claim  incorrectly - which Ive already
explained above I dont  agree was what happened  here - this hasnt changed my overall
opinion in this matter.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not currently intend  to uphold this complaint.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0036219