K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc failed to refund him a large sum of money he says was 
debited from his current account without his permission. He also says they unfairly  closed 
his account during what was a very difficult time for him. He wants them to refund him the 
amount of money  he lost and apologise.
Background
Mr K held a current account with HSBC. Between August and Sep 2015 several cheques 
totalling £20,100 were paid to third party accounts. Mr K says he didnt write  these  cheques  
or give anyone else his consent  to write  them on his behalf. He says he found out the money 
had left his account when  HSBC rang him in mid-September 2015. They  told him a cheque 
had been refused because there  were  insufficient funds in his account. He reported the 
transactions as fraud.
Mr K was arrested a few months later as part of a police investigation that involved the 
cheque payments. Following this HSBC took the decision to close his account in February 
2016. This prevented him from receiving further income into the account, such  as his salary.
Mr K was found not guilty of the charges against him in 2017. Its my understanding  other 
defendants charged alongside him were  found guilty of other charges. After the verdict,  Mr K 
asked HSBC to refund  the sums that left his account, but they refused. They  said hed been 
grossly negligent  with his chequebook, and they shouldnt be responsible for the loss hed 
suffered as a result. 
 
Mr K thinks  HSBC  are obliged to refund him the transactions.  He says he didnt authorise  
them and hes referred to information  on the Financial Conduct  Authoritys website  in support 
of this. He says hed left his chequebook  in a drawer in his bedroom  at his permanent  
address; his family home.  He thinks this is usual customer behaviour and doesnt  amount to 
gross negligence. He says the person who had written the cheques was identified  by the 
police and is now widely understood to be a fraudster. This person was previously  known to 
his family  and they mustve stolen the cheques on visiting his family home.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr K brought his complaint to our service. The investigator  
who considered  his complaint decided not to uphold it. They  found:
-It was unlikely Mr K deposited the cheques himself, as information points to him 
being abroad for much of the time the transactions took place.
-Mr K wasnt grossly  negligent by keeping  a chequebook in a drawer  in his bedroom 
in his family home. It was understandable he wouldnt have anticipated his 
chequebook would be stolen  from a place he thought no-one else would access.
-Mr K is frustrated  at HSBCs refusal to refund  the transactions  and thats 
understandable. But HSBC have  a wide variety of legal and regulatory obligations 
they must meet. And when considering these in relation to whats  happened,  it 
wouldnt be a fair and reasonable outcome to recommend them  to refund the 
transactions.
-HSBC were entitled to end its relationship  with Mr K even after hed been  arrested.  
Theyd closed his account immediately in line with his accounts terms. While this 
Ref: DRN03970452was certainly an inconvenience for Mr K, it didnt mean  HSBCs  decision was 
inappropriate.
Mr K disagrees with the investigators findings.  He asks what specific  laws and regulations 
mean he cant get his money back.  He contends  how normal  his actions were in keeping  his 
chequebook in a drawer in his bedroom.  And he thinks HSBC  ought to have suspended his 
account while legal action was taken against him, rather than closing it.
Mr K has asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman,  so the complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint  for broadly the same  reasons as the investigator gave in their view.
Mr K has referred to information  on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website in 
correspondence he had with HSBC. This information relates to firms responsibilities  to 
customers under the Payment Services Regulations  (PSRs). Broadly  speaking  the 
regulations require firms  such  as HSBC to refund customers  for any transactions they didnt 
authorise. The regulations in certain  circumstances do allow firms  not to refund unauthorised  
transactions if they were the result of gross negligence.  
I find, however,  that the PSRs do not directly  apply to Mr Ks complaint as they specifically 
exclude payments  by cheque. So, Ive gone  on to consider  HSBCs  responsibilities  in 
relation to fraudulent cheques, as well as their wider  legal and regulatory responsibilities 
when providing  accounts. 
Its generally understood a forged signature on a cheque doesnt represent  an account 
owners mandate to pay funds out of their account.  So, Ive considered  whether Mr K did or 
didnt sign the cheques.  I dont have the full particulars  of the courts considerations when  
Mr K went  to trial and I cant  say for sure whether the court  concluded he didnt sign the 
cheques. But based on the specificity of what hes told us, the fact he was found  not guilty,  
and that he appears  to have been abroad when some of the cheques  were deposited, I find 
he most likely  didnt  sign the cheques.
HSBC say Mr K was grossly negligent for someone  to have had access  his chequebook.  
And they comment he failed to report the chequebook as stolen in 2015. But I dont find their 
conclusions persuasive.  I dont find keeping a chequebook in a bedroom drawer  amounts to 
serious carelessness.
When Mr K reported the cheque payments  in 2015,  he says he was temporarily renting 
elsewhere, so its plausible he wouldnt have known his chequebook had been taken or have 
understood when  it couldve been taken. He may simply  have  been  trying to piece together  
how cheques in his name couldve been  used without his knowledge. 
Ref: DRN03970453When Mr K contacted HSBC again  in 2017, he says the police had clearly identified whod 
taken and deposited his cheques. Its reasonable then for him to have used the term stolen  
when referring to what had happened. So, I dont find him not reporting his chequebook  as 
stolen in 2015 as telling  or that hes been  particularly inconsistent. 
Mr K feels  strongly he should receive  the funds back that left his account. He was found not 
guilty at trial, meaning the court wasnt persuaded beyond a reasonable doubt that he was 
guilty of a crime. And although  this isnt the evidential  standard  required of me when 
deciding this complaint, I recognise Mr K may have had no awareness  of the cheques.  
But other than HSBCs  conclusion that Mr K was grossly negligent, I also have to consider  
their refusal to refund him in light of their wide legal  and regulatory obligations, and any other 
concerns they may have. After  doing  so - and while I appreciate this will come as very 
disappointing news to Mr K - I dont  find their decision  not to refund him inappropriate. 
Should Mr K opt not to accept my final decision,  he wouldnt be prevented from pursuing 
HSBC for the funds  in court.
Mr K would like to know which specific laws and regulations  mean he cant  get his money 
back, which again is understandable.  But HSBC arent required to give any further reasons. 
Moreover, HSBCs  obligations are broad and varied,  and it isnt the case  that one regulation  
or law only applies to the circumstances of Mr K and this complaint. Mr K may wish to 
research firms obligations and responsibilities, and how they relate to his circumstances and 
the decision HSBC  have taken. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC have acted in 
accordance with whats required of them.
The account  closure
Mr K thinks  HSBC  shouldve only suspended  his account, rather than close it when he was 
charged by the police.  But HSBC  can decide not to continue its relationship with Mr K, in the 
same way he couldve decided he no longer  wanted to transact with them. Their decision is 
not something we would generally interfere with, as this would impinge on their freedom to 
decide who they want as a customer,  including existing customers.
HSBC should,  however,  ensure that when they close  accounts they apply the correct  
account terms. Considering Mr K had been arrested  on suspicion of a crime, this certainly 
met several  of the terms that permitted HSBC to close his account immediately. I understand 
that Mr K was eventually  found not guilty, but the terms  did not require  HSBC  to await a 
courts verdict before deciding to close his account.  So, Im not going to award any 
compensation for the inconvenience Mr K no doubt encountered because  his account 
closed.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Ref: DRN03970454Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0397045