K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold  her mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI).  
background
Ms S took out PPI in 1998 to cover  her mortgage  repayments if she was unable to work due 
to injury, illness or unemployment.
Ms S says that the PPI was added to her mortgage without her knowledge or consent. B&B 
says it provided enough  information  to Ms S about  the policy for her to make  a choice about 
whether the policy  was right for her.
B&B upheld Ms Ss complaint in part and offered her some  compensation. B&B said the 
policy terms made it difficult  for her to make a claim as she had two jobs.  But B&B also said 
the rest of the policy was right for Ms S so it didnt  offer compensation for the remaining 
cover.
In my provisional decision sent in March 2019 I said:
I agree  with B&B that only the unemployment element of the policy  was mis-sold, and Ill 
explain why.
B&B had to make  Ms S aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding 
it to her mortgage. B&B has sent us a copy of the paperwork available  from the time Ms S 
applied for her mortgage and PPI. Ms Ss mortgage  application form had a separate  section 
for PPI that gave  Ms S the option of what level of cover to take and an option to decline the 
policy.
The option  to take PPI to cover Ms S for illness, injury and unemployment has been 
selected. Ms S has also signed the application in agreement with the selections made on it. 
So I think B&B made it clear that Ms S didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
B&B initially  told us it advised Ms S to take the PPI. It later said that it made a mistake and 
didnt recommend the PPI and instead gave Ms S enough information for her to make the 
decision about whether or not to take the policy.
If B&B did recommend  the PPI to Ms S it had to check that the policy  was right for her.
B&B have said that it would have been  difficult for Ms S to make a claim for unemployment  
under the policy  as she had two jobs at the time she took it out. So it has offered 
compensation for this element. I have considered the terms and conditions related to this 
element of the PPI, and I agree with B&Bs findings.
B&B have said that Ms S would have found  the remaining elements of the PPI useful and 
because of this it hasnt offered compensation for them. Based on what  Ive seen of Ms Ss 
circumstances at the time, I think the other elements of the PPI were suitable for her. Ms S 
has told us she would  have been entitled to over 12 months sick pay when she took the PPI, 
but B&B has provided evidence that shows Ms S would  have  received  less than 3 months.
Ref: DRN04358062Ms S also says she could  have relied on family help if she was unable  to make her 
repayments. The PPI would have paid out in addition to Ms Ss sick pay, and for longer. And 
help from Ms Ss family  would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time 
which could have changed, so I dont think this offer of help could be relied on.
Ms S wasnt affected by the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the remaining elements of cover.
Its possible the information B&B gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think that if Ms S was given sufficient  information she wouldve chosen to take 
cover for accident and sickness only as these elements of the policy would have  provided  a 
useful benefit  to her if she had a reason to claim under the policy.  From what Ive seen it 
also looks like Ms S wanted cover, and that it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the policy.
Which means I think B&Bs offer to compensate Ms S for the unemployment  element of the
PPI is fair and it doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But B&B will pay back some  more of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because:
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have told Ms S about  that. Because B&B didnt tell Ms S, that was unfair.
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium for the remaining  accident and sickness  
elements of the PPI in addition to refunding  the cost of the unemployment element in full - 
and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ms S disagreed with my decision. She said:
She only remembers being handed pre-filled  documents to sign,  and
She had a reason to claim under the policy in 2009, so if she knew  she had the policy  
she would have  made a claim.
B&B didnt provide any further information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Ms S remembers being  handed pre-filled documents to sign, but it isnt 
possible to know for certain what happened  at the time and what  discussions took place. As 
Ive said above,  the paperwork available from the time shows  Ms S agreed to take the PPI. 
Ms S has explained that she had a reason to claim under the policy in 2009 and didnt so 
this shows she wasnt aware  she had it. The policy was taken out in 1998  and the 
information available from the time shows Ms S would have been aware she was taking the 
policy. If Ms S would like to attempt a retrospective  claim she should now contact the insurer 
directly for information on how to do this.
Having considered Ms Ss points I havent  changed  my decision.
Ref: DRN04358063what the business needs  to do
B&B should  pay Ms S the amount she paid each month for the unemployment cover.  It 
should also add simple interest  to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year*.
B&B should  also pay back to Ms S any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium for the remaining elements  of the PPI. B&B should  also pay 
back to Ms S any extra  interest  she paid because of that. In addition B&B should pay Ms S 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms S can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Bradford & Bingley  Plc has offered to refund the amount  Ms S paid for the unemployment 
element of the PPI policy, and I think this is fair.
But I also think Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back  to Ms S any commission  and 
profit share it got, in relation to the accident and sickness elements of Ms Ss policy,  that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0435806