K820x#14Complaint
Ms F and Mr M complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked their joint account and 
did not process a payment for around £190,000 to complete  the purchase of a property. 
They incurred extra fees and suffered distress and inconvenience and would like NatWest  to 
pay them  compensation.
Background
Mr M was due to purchase  a property. He needed  around £190,000 transferred to his 
solicitors. He asked NatWest to transfer this amount to his solicitors  on 22 February  2019  to 
complete the purchase of the property. He then realised his account was blocked by the 
bank and he was not able to complete the transfer. 
Mr M had to postpone the completion  on his property until 8 March 2019.  As a result, he 
incurred extra costs  from his solicitors and the stress of the situation  had a serious impact on 
his health. 
Mr Ms account was unblocked on the 7 March 2019 and he was able to complete the 
purchase of his property.
Because of the problems he was having  accessing his account  he complained to NatWest.
NatWest reviewed the complaint and said that there  had been no bank  error  and therefore 
no compensation was due.
Mr M was unhappy with the banks response, so he complained to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. He said that having looked at the evidence  
he was satisfied the bank had acted  within the terms and conditions  of the account and there 
had been no unnecessary  delay  in the unblocking of the account. He said he was aware that 
Mr M had had health problems because of the stress but as the bank had done nothing 
wrong, he couldnt recommend that they should  pay compensation.
Mr M was unhappy with our investigators  view. He said he hadnt  looked at the terms and 
conditions, but he thought  that if there was such a term it would be unfair. He thought that 
although a bank could review an account, the decision to freeze the account was made in 
error and the bank  should pay him compensation. Mr M also said the bank needed to treat 
its customers fairly and referred  to BCOBS, the Banking: Conduct of Business Sourcebook  
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me for decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00502092Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Ms account.  Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place to verify a customers  identity, establish  the purpose  and 
nature of the business relationship and the origin  of funds, and there  may be penalties if they 
dont. This applies to both new and existing  relationships. NatWest  have said that Mr Ms 
account was blocked to meet these  legal requirements.
Mr M has said that the bank made an error in blocking  his account. Whilst I understand 
Mr Ms strength of feeling,  as Ive already explained financial businesses have a legal 
obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. I have seen the evidence provided by 
NatWest and I can see that in blocking the account  the bank were following an internal 
process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal  and regulatory  obligations.  
This was a legitimate exercise  so I cant say NatWest was unfair.  
Mr Ms account was unblocked on the 7 March 2019. I am satisfied NatWest  completed the 
review of Mr Ms account in a timely  manner.  So, although I understand not having  access to 
his money was inconvenient for Mr M and caused  him stress and his health suffered as a 
result, the bank  did nothing wrong and gave him access to the funds as soon as it was 
possible to do so. 
Mr M has mentioned the terms  and conditions of the account. I have looked at these and I 
am satisfied  that they permit NatWest to block the account. I have considered whether it was 
fair for NatWest to rely on these terms in order to block  Mr Ms account and looking at the 
evidence Im satisfied that NatWest  acted fairly  in applying the terms and conditions.
Mr M has suggested that NatWest didnt  treat him fairly and has referred to BCOBS.  
As Mr M has mentioned  it, I have looked at BCOBS  and I have considered  the principles in 
the FCA handbook. Principle 6 requires a firm to treat its customers  fairly.  I know that Mr M 
feels NatWest havent  treated  him fairly because it has blocked  his account. But as Ive said 
the bank is obliged to comply with its regulatory  requirements when it offers  banking 
services. But in making the decision  to block his account NatWest  must treat him fairly. I 
have looked at whether NatWest has done  so, and I am satisfied that it has acted fairly.
In summary  Ive already said that NatWest  has procedures  they must follow to comply  with 
their legal and regulatory  obligations. Im satisfied that is what they were doing when they 
reviewed and blocked Mr Ms account.  So, I dont think NatWest have done anything  wrong  
and I wont be asking  them to do anything.  It follows I will not be upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0050209