K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs S complain  that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited, trading as Health 
On-Line.co.uk, (AXA) refused to pay the full cost of treatment Mr C had under his private  
medical health insurance (PMI) policy.
Mrs S brings this complaint for and on behalf of Mr C, under a power of attorney.
background
Mr C is covered under a PMI policy. The policy has a list of facilities  where  treatment is 
covered in full. However, the policy terms says that AXA will pay 60% towards treatment 
which takes place  at a facility which isnt on the list as long as its recognised by AXA.
Mr C saw a professor, P, at a facility that wasnt  on the list (which Ill call BC in this decision) 
but which was recognised  by AXA. As a result,  AXA paid 60% of the overall invoice.
Mrs S says that when  she phoned AXA for authorisation, shes certain she said shed be 
seeing P at BC with the street address for it. And AXA told her that P was 100% covered by 
their policy.  But actually  only treatment  with P at a different facility (which  Ill call LC in this 
decision) was fully covered. Mrs S says AXA didnt make the address of the facility where P 
was fully covered  clear  to her and it must  have been confused over the name  and address of 
where Mr C would be visiting  P. And, having  used the insurance policy for Mr C before, she 
says she was aware that some locations  arent 100% covered by the policy. 
Mrs S complained to AXA but it didnt uphold the complaint. So Mrs S brought this complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked  into matters and didnt uphold  his complaint. She 
thought AXA had paid the claim in line with the policy terms. Shed listened  to the call Mrs S 
had with AXA and thought:
-The agent made it clear  that P was fully covered at LC.
-She hadnt  seen  any evidence that Mrs S had told AXA that Mr C would see P at BC, as 
had been suggested.  
-There wasnt a discussion about BC. 
Mrs S disagreed. She makes a number  of points including  the following: 
-BC is known by the same name as LC. And everyone knows  BC by the name of LC.
-If she had known  Mr C wasn't fully covered at BC, they wouldve gone to LC as they're 
around same location.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her view.  This matter has now been passed  to 
me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  theres a dispute about  what happened,  Ive 
based my decision  on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ref: DRN02514312Having done so, I have to tell Mr C and Mrs S that I think the investigator  has reached the 
right outcome here.  So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter.  I think she explained  
matters clearly and so theres  not much  I feel I can usefully  add.
I think the policy term is clear. I havent  seen  any evidence that BC is known by the same 
name as LC. Or that Mrs S spoke  to AXA about BC when seeking authorisation for Mr Cs 
treatment. Taking everything into account,  including the phone call Mrs S had with AXA, I 
dont agree that AXA has done anything wrong which would mean  that it should pay 100% of 
the treatment costs in this matter.
In the call with AXA,  the agent confirms that P practices out of two places.  One of those  is 
LC. When she mentioned this, Mrs S says [LC], thats in [the broad location]  yeah.
The agent  then recommends that Mrs S speaks  to Ps secretary to just find out where 
abouts you would see her just so that we know its, I mean, if its LC then thats fully covered 
by us so thats  gonna be fine.  
And Mrs S replies to say It would be [LC] Id say because the other  venue  Im not familiar 
with. But I do know [LC].
So I think AXA was clear  about the fact that P was fully covered at LC. And Mrs S was also 
clear that she was familiar with LC and would  be going there for Mr Cs treatment. During the 
call, theres no mention  by Mrs S of BC. So I dont think AXA needed to go into any further  
details about LC or discuss BC at all. Even  so, AXA still suggested Mrs S check the facility 
that Mr C would be attending with Ps secretary to ensure it was fully covered.
I know Mr C and Mrs S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings  to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve  this dispute with AXA  can do for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S, for and on 
behalf of herself  and Mr C, to accept or reject  my decision before  28 February 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0251431