K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited  (FCIM) failed to put his 
wife on to his motor insurance policy  as a named driver when he rang FCIM  and asked it to 
do so. As a result, when  she later had a motor accident while  driving his car she was 
uninsured.
background
Mr M first took out a motor insurance  policy with FCIM in May 2016. At that time his wife was 
included on the policy as a named driver. In September 2016, Mr M phoned FCIM  and asked 
to remove his wife from the policy as she was going  to be abroad  for a few months. FCIM did 
so and the annual premium was reduced  from £355.66 to £279.76.
Mr M says his wife returned to the UK in March 2017. He says he phoned FCIM and spoke 
to one of its representatives, and arranged  for his wife to be put back  on the policy. Mr M 
renewed the policy with FCIM in May 2017  and May 2018. On each occasion FCIM sent    
Mr M a statement  of the facts about  the insurance  on which it was relying. However  there 
was no mention in them  of Mr Ms wife being  a named driver.
In September  2018, Mr Ms wife was involved in a motor accident.  It then became apparent  
that according to FCIMs records she wasnt included on the policy, and so it wouldnt cover 
her for the accident.
Mr M complained to FCIM. He said he had spoken  to FCIM on the phone in 2017 and put his 
wife back on the policy. Ever since then he thought she had been included  on the policy.  So 
he said FCIM  should acknowledge that she was included on the policy at the time of the 
accident.
FCIM didnt accept Mr Ms complaint. It said it had found a number of recorded phone  calls 
with Mr M but in none of them had he mentioned his wife being put back  on the policy. The 
renewal invitation  and statements of fact sent to Mr M in May 2017 and May 2018 said the 
policy covered Mr M only without any named driver.
It was a policyholders  duty to check such information was up to date and accurate. So it was 
unable to include his wife as covered by the policy at the time of the accident in September 
2018.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said he had 
listened to various  calls between Mr M and FCIM  but in none of the calls before  the accident  
was there  any mention  of adding Mr Ms wife as a named driver.
Mr M had produced his own phone  records  which  showed a call being made to FCIM on    
13 March 2017  which lasted for more than 4 minutes. FCIM didnt have  a copy of this call but 
said it had been  made to its claims department  number, and no one at FCIM  had accessed  
Mr Ms policy at the time of the call.
Mr M had produced evidence that when he was looking to renew his policy in May 2018  he 
looked on insurance comparison sites and the information he gave included his wife as 
named driver. The investigator said he didnt  view this as relevant as it wasnt evidence in 
relation to whether she had been added to his FCIM policy.
Ref: DRN06531222He said it was Mr Ms duty to check that the details  he was sent at renewal were correct. On 
the evidence he had seen he couldnt say that Mr M had called FCIM  and added his wife to 
the policy in 2017. 
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that:
in his phone call to FCIM on 13 March  2017 he had definitely  asked for his wife to be 
added to the policy, but FCIM hadnt  processed this request;
the evidence  that he was asking  comparison sites for quotes  including his wife 
showed he wasnt deliberately not including her on the FCIM  policy; and
he acknowledged that he had failed to check the renewal documents  FCIM  sent him, 
but FCIM had also failed  to act on his request in March 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After his wifes motor  accident in September 2018,  Mr M found that according to FCIMs  
records his wife had not been included on his policy as a named driver since he phoned 
FCIM in September 2016 and arranged to remove her from the policy.  This reduced the 
annual premium by some £75.
Mr M told FCIM that at the time of the policy renewal in May 2017 he had phoned FCIM and 
added her to the policy. There is a recording  of a call on 5 May 2017 where Mr M discusses 
having received  renewal  details at a premium  of £326.95. He asks to remove breakdown 
cover from the policy, which reduces the premium to £286.95.  He agrees this. No mention is 
made in the call about adding his wife to the policy.
Mr M then found a record in his own mobile  phone records of a call to FCIM  on 13 March  
2017. He said that was when he had phoned  FCIM and its representative had agreed to add 
his wife to the policy.
FCIM doesnt have  a recording of this call. It says the number called was its claims 
department, and there is no record of the policy records  being  accessed as would be the 
case if the policy was to be amended. No new particulars were  sent out to Mr M, following 
that call, and he wasnt asked for an increased premium.
FCIM has supplied recordings of several  other  calls between it and Mr M during 2017,  but in 
none of them does he mention his wife being  named  on the policy. Mr M acknowledges that 
FCIM sent him documents following renewal in May 2017 and May 2018. These had a 
prominent section  listing any named  drivers included on the policy, but no named driver was 
shown. Mr M has acknowledged that he didnt check these documents  when they arrived.
Mr M produced evidence that at the time he was renewing his policy  he was looking for 
quotes on insurance comparison sites, and the information he submitted included his wife as 
named driver. However, like the investigator, I dont attach any weight to this, given how he 
actually renewed  his policy in two separate  years.
I sympathise with the position Mr M and his wife now find themselves in. However I think 
FCIM has investigated the history of Mr Ms policy thoroughly, and listened carefully to all 
Ref: DRN06531223that he has said. Ultimately, it wasnt satisfied on the evidence  available  to it that Mr M had 
told it to add his wife to the policy in 2017.
It said he had failed  to check  the documents it sent him on renewal in 2017 and 2018 and 
contact it to correct the position. So it isnt willing to provide cover under the policy  to Mr Ms 
wife in respect of her accident in September  2018.
On the evidence available, Im not persuaded that Mr M contacted  FCIM in 2017  and asked 
it to add his wife to the policy. Mr M failed twice to check the renewal documents FCIM sent 
him in 2017 and 2018, and contact  FCIM  if he thought  they were  incorrect.  So I cant  
reasonably require FCIM  to provide cover for Mr Ms wife in respect of her accident.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against First Central 
Insurance Management Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0653122