K820x#14complaint
Mr A and his representative are unhappy with the way Zenith Insurance plc investigated and 
dealt with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr A complains that Zenith hasnt paid out on a claim on his motor  insurance policy  after his 
car was stolen. He says he told Zenith  he has personal and health issues and it agreed a 
visit by its investigator wouldnt be long or stressful.  But that proved not to be the case. 
During the visit he says he felt victimised, manipulated and pressurised.  The investigator 
also didnt take his issues into account. As a result  he says his health issues worsened. He 
wants his claim  dealt  with.
Zenith apologised in its final response for any distress caused but said that its investigations 
were necessary and its enquiries were unavoidable.  Its decision to repudiate  the claim would 
remain unchanged as would its request for Mr A to reimburse the £2,115.10 costs it had 
incurred. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Zenith identified a number of discrepancies  and gave Mr A the chance to correct  
them and give more  information. But it didnt think the responses  adequately resolved 
them. It concluded that the testimony  about  the cars theft and subsequent fire 
damage were false. Based on the available evidence he felt Zenith had made a 
reasonable decision.
As a theft of the vehicle  had taken place a through investigation needed  to happen  
which would result in many questions being asked. This wouldnt have been 
comfortable for Mr A given his health issues and wouldve required some  
consideration from the investigator.  But he cant say exactly what happened at the 
meeting with the investigator that Mr A eventually agreed to. The investigator  met 
Mr A at an address  he wanted.  Because a criminal  offence had taken place  claims 
like this can take a long time to conclude and a depth  of investigation is required.
Although the investigation mayve impacted Mr As health  Zeniths  conduct  and 
behaviour hasnt been unreasonable. The investigator mayve asked many  questions 
and this mightve been uncomfortable for Mr A but these questions needed asking 
and answering  if the claim was to have a good chance of success.  
Mr As representative remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to determine  exactly what happened to Mr As car. But I can look at how 
Zenith carried out its investigation and consider whether it has made a fair and reasonable 
decision to decline to deal with the claim based on the available evidence.
Ref: DRN09303832Given what happened to Mr As car I think Zenith  was entitled  to carry out a full and thorough 
investigation into what happened.  That would necessarily, reasonably  and fairly  involve  it 
asking Mr A questions particularly about  the discrepancies it had identified in the evidence. 
I think it was reasonable  for Zenith to appoint an investigator to meet  with and question  Mr A. 
It appears that it took the investigator  some time to successfully contact Mr A and get him to 
agree to this meeting but it did try to meet his needs  and accommodated his request to 
change the location of the meeting.
I cannot say exactly  what  happened at that meeting but I think  it wouldve necessarily and 
reasonably involved  Mr A being  asked detailed questions about  what  had happened and the 
evidence he had previously given. And I cant  say that Zeniths investigator acted unfairly  by 
posing these questions however uncomfortable  they mightve been for Mr A.
Zenith was also entitled to rely on all the evidence  it had collected, including from its 
investigator, when  deciding  whether to deal with the claim or decline it. 
Mr A and his representative may object to the way Zenith pursued its investigation and 
disagree with its interpretation  of the available evidence and decision but I dont think  its 
failed to comply with the policy  terms or exercised its discretion  unfairly  or unreasonably  
when deciding to decline to deal with the claim as its done.
Although I recognise  that this ongoing  claim and matter may well have affected Mr As health 
I dont think I can say this is Zeniths  fault. All claims of this type will by necessity take time 
and involve some  upset and inconvenience to the policyholder. Its unfortunate if in this case 
this has been  particularly distressing to Mr A because of his personal  and health issues  but I 
dont think I can fairly  attribute this to Zenith acting in anyway unreasonably.
Although I understand Zeniths  decision  to decline the claim is disappointing  for Mr A I dont 
think it has done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask it to now 
deal with his claim or do anything more as he and his representative would like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0930383