K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Amtrust Europe  Limited  acted  unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with his claim under a boiler cover  policy. He wants to be able to cancel the contract without 
paying cancellation fees. 
background
Mr R had a boiler cover  insurance policy with Amtrust which would deal with any issues  with 
his boiler (subject  to exclusions). Mr R had a problem with his boiler between December 
2018 and January 2019, and said that Amtrusts  engineers  cancelled  several appointments 
at short  notice as they didnt have  the parts they needed. Mr R also said that the engineers  
seemed to cause  a new problem whenever  they attended and the cancelled  appointments 
caused him financial loss as hed had to take time off work (he was self-employed). He said 
that Amtrust failed to return  calls on occasions  and the boiler wasnt  in full working order as it 
needed to refill once or twice a week.
Mr R complained to Amtrust.  It said that Mr R hadnt been inconvenienced as he had hot 
water and heating  for much of the period  while waiting for parts  to arrive. Amtrust accepted 
that it did cancel  appointments due to parts not having arrived both in December and 
January (at times only cancelling or rearranging on the day of the appointment itself). It said 
Mr R told them he was happy to wait until after Christmas as the boiler was working. Amtrust 
also said that it updated Mr R about  when the parts were expected to arrive and rearranged 
the appointment to suit his availability, but he wanted the appointment to happen when all 
three parts were received;  this caused  delay.  Amtrust said it left the boiler in full working 
order, but offered  to write  off 3 months  direct  debit for the inconvenience  caused by 
rearranged appointments.
Mr R complained to us, and said one person from Amtrust had said it was possible to cancel 
the contract  without paying fees,  but ultimately it wasnt  willing to allow this. He felt that 
Amtrust shouldnt have cancelled appointments at short notice by text. Mr R also said that he 
believed Amtrusts work on the boiler had caused a later leak. 
Amtrust told this service Mr R had been told he could cancel in early  January without paying 
a fee, but it had to be done immediately before any parts were supplied  or work done. Mr R 
didnt do this. It also didnt  accept that Mr R was without hot water  or heating and said that 
there wasnt any evidence  Amtrust  caused  a leak. It was willing  to deduct three months  
direct debits from the cancellation charge  if Mr R wanted to cancel now. Mr R didnt accept 
the offer and said hed lost potential income due to all the cancelled  appointments, and had 
at times been without  hot water and heating,  causing his family to have to go to a relatives 
home to shower.  He said Amtrust didnt  return calls and should  call him to cancel, not text. 
Mr R complained about further appointment problems regarding  the new leak.
The investigators view was that the issue of the recent leak couldnt be considered as it 
didnt form part of the original complaint made to Amtrust and Mr R had to raise  this 
complaint with the business first. He didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator  said that 
Mr R told Amtrust (recorded in a document signed by him) that since  Christmas  Eve, the 
boiler had worked  great  and in the end the parts werent needed.  He thought  the boiler 
issue had been  resolved  before Christmas,  but accepted Mr R had been without hot water 
and heating for about two days before then. This was because  Amtrust was waiting for parts 
to arrive; the investigator pointed out that the policy said it wasnt liable if parts  were  delayed. 
Ref: DRN09271372The investigator noted the cancelled  appointments and said Mr R hadnt shown any direct 
financial loss, particularly  as most  of the cancelled appointments were  when he was off on 
leave. He didnt  think that it was fair or reasonable for the policy to be cancelled  without a 
cancellation fee being charged as Mr R had chosen to have  work  done. The investigator  
noted that day-to-day life generally involved some  inconvenience,  and thought the offer 
made by Amtrust to refund three  months payments was fair and reasonable to reflect  the 
inconvenience from short notice  cancellations  and unreturned calls.
Mr R disagreed. He said he could prove his hourly  rate and business turnover, and couldve 
been doing other things  with his time. Mr R accepted that he did sign a document  saying the 
boiler was working,  but said he hadnt read it. He felt the later boiler leak was relevant and 
Amtrust shouldve called him. Amtrust  said it was willing to allow  this service to look at the 
later leak,  and made the point that it was a small weep which it dealt  with when reported. 
The investigator said that there wasnt any evidence  Amtrust caused  the leak. Mr R felt that 
short notice of a cancellation was the same as no notice and he believed Amtrust caused the 
leak. A few months later, Mr R said a new issue had arisen  with Amtrust; the investigator 
said this couldnt  be added to this complaint and had to be made  to the business  first.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree that Mr R had hot water and heating throughout late December 2018 and early 
January 2019.  The evidence shows that the boiler was shut off by Amtrusts engineer for 
about two days  before Christmas, but was repaired  and up and running by 22 December. 
But the evidence  doesnt show that its more likely  than not Amtrust  caused the fault and its 
fair and reasonable for it to wait for parts. I dont think Amtrust is to blame  for the short 
period when Mr R and his family were without hot water and heating. I also dont think  
theres any evidence  Amtrust caused the later leak available to me; the boiler appears to 
have several issues.
Mr R says that he didnt  read the document he signed, but given  he was in regular contact  
with Amtrust before and after Christmas and his own account, I think  there  was sufficient hot 
water and heating  in place for Mr R to state that he didnt want  any engineer visits over 
Christmas. I think from 22 December onwards, there was hot water  and heating  and while  
the boiler needed repair, the position was manageable.
While I appreciate Mr Rs frustration, I dont accept that he wasnt given notice of the 
cancelled appointments. He was given short notice by text. Mr R mightve wished  to be 
called rather than texted,  but there was no obligation  on Amtrust to do that, other  than to 
return calls as promised. And I can understand why the cancellations were at short  notice if 
Amtrust was waiting to see if parts arrived and then found that they hadnt. But while  I can 
see Amtrust  was talking to its supplier  to try to move matters forward,  and offered to come  
with the parts available, it failed to return Mr Rs calls at times and shouldve cancelled  at 
least some  of the appointments with more  notice. Amtrust accepts this.
Ref: DRN09271373But I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr R to receive compensation for financial loss. 
First, some of the cancelled appointments were when he was due to be on leave. And Mr R 
is self-employed and Im not persuaded he couldnt  do anything  at home from the evidence  
hes provided. I also note that another adult  lived in the property and no evidence  has been 
given why only Mr R could deal with the appointments. The policy  excludes  specifically any 
business losses.
And I dont  think its fair or reasonable for the policy to be cancelled without any cancellation  
fees. Mr R was give this option but was told it was only available  if he agreed  immediately  
without having  work  done. Mr R didnt. He arranged for further work to be done, which 
means he had the benefit of the policy.
This leaves  the issue of the trouble and upset caused by the short  notice cancellations and 
failure to return calls. Money  never  truly compensates for trouble and upset. I think the 
trouble and upset  suffered was minor,  and the offer from Amtrust is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr R whether  to 
accept Amtrust Europe Limiteds offer of a refund of three months payments. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my 
decision before  18 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0927137