K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited turned  down  a claim made  on his
group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr P was involved  in a car accident  in August 2017 and suffered whiplash, neck  and back
pain. He was signed off work by his GP for these reasons along with work related stress  /
anxiety.
Mr P had the benefit of an income  protection  policy (the policy) through  his employer at the
time (the policyholder), which can pay out a portion of his income after hes been off work
for 26 weeks (the deferred period).
A claim  was made on the policy during the deferred period which was ultimately declined by
Aviva. In May 2018, after reviewing Mr Ps submissions together with the medical records,  its
Chief Medical Officer advised  that Mr P did not have a significant structural  organic disease
as a result  of the accident. Aviva also concluded that theres  nothing  in Mr Ps medical
records which show that his symptoms were severe enough to warrant  a prolonged absence
from the workplace.
Mr P appealed this decision  and provided  further information  in support. Aviva maintained its
position for the same reason, and also that there  was nothing to confirm why he was unable
to work in a sedentary, office based  role with appropriate modifications, if required.  After a
further appeal,  Aviva wrote to the policyholder asking it to provide further information about
the amount of travel his role required.  In light of the response, Aviva concluded that
attending meetings  were  a relatively  small part of his role and, on average,  he spent a
minimal amount of time travelling to such meetings each week.
Unhappy, Mr P complained to our Service. Our investigator initially  recommended that Aviva
arrange for an independent  report to be carried out by a specialist consultant, the focus
being on the impact  Mr Ps medical  issues had on his ability  to carry out the role he was
doing prior to being signed  off sick by his GP.
Both Mr P and Aviva disagreed, and Mr P provided further medical reports.  Our investigator
reviewed everything again.  Having done  so, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, he
said Aviva  should  pay the claim  by backdating  the benefit payments  from the end of the
deferred period  to the point Mr P was no longer incapacitated together  with interest.
Aviva didnt agree and Mr Ps complaint was passed  to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in January 2020 explaining why I was intending to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and 
asking Aviva to pay the monthly benefit to the policyholder from the date the deferred period 
ended to 24 March  2019 inclusive (with the expectation that the policyholder forwards  that 
payment to Mr P). 
Mr P replied,  accepting  my provisional  decision.  Aviva replied confirming it didnt have any 
new information that was likely to alter my provisional findings. However, it did say that 
although the job description  indicated  that travelling was a significant part of Mr Ps role, it 
obtained information from the policyholder that for the six months immediately preceding  
Mr Ps absence  from work, he only spent 17% of his time travelling to and from / conducting 
Ref: DRN08479032client meetings. It says more weight  should  be placed on this analysis than Mr Ps generic 
job description. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I uphold  it for the same 
reasons set out in my provisional decision  attached - which forms part of, this, my final 
decision.
Im satisfied Avivas decision to decline Mr Ps claim on the basis  that he wasnt  
incapacitated as defined by the policy isnt fair and reasonable. 
When making this finding Ive taken on board what Aviva  says about the analysis  carried 
out by the policyholder  showing the percentage of time Mr P spent travelling to and from, 
and attending,  meetings,  in the six months  leading up to his absence. However, as Ive said 
in my provisional decision,  I dont think its fair or reasonable to rely solely on the percentage 
of time Mr P spent undertaking these activities when assessing  whether they were an 
integral part of the Sales Director role he was carrying out when the deferred period started 
 particularly in light of all the other evidence including the policy  definitions,  the job 
specification and the employer questionnaire completed by the policyholder in February 
2018. 
Ive considered all the evidence,  as Im required to, and the analysis carried  out by the 
policyholder is something Ive taken into account when considering  whether Mr P was able 
to perform the duties  of his job. But Im satisfied that just because someone  spends only 
around a fifth of their time doing particular duties at work over a period of time, it doesnt 
automatically follow that those duties cant amount to a material  and substantial part of their 
role. It depends on the nature of the role and how integral those duties are to that role. In the 
circumstances of this complaint  and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision   Im 
satisfied that traveling  to and from, and attending,  meetings were material  and substantial  
duties of the role Mr P was employed  to do.
putting things right
Aviva should  pay the policyholder a sum equivalent to the monthly benefits Mr P shouldve 
received from the date the deferred  period  ended  to 24 March 2019  inclusive (with the 
expectation that the policyholder forwards that payment to Mr P).
Aviva should  also calculate  8% simple interest on the monthly benefits that shouldve been
paid under the policy from the date on which each payment was due to be paid to the date
payment is actually made to the policyholder and pay that to Mr P directly*.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint  and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 20 March 2020.
Ref: DRN08479033David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
*If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to
take off income  tax from any interest  paid, it should  tell Mr P how much  its taken  off. It
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs, if appropriate.
Ref: DRN08479034Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy  that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited turned down a claim made  on his
group income protection insurance  policy.
Background
Mr P was involved in a car accident in August 2017 and suffered whiplash, neck and back
pain. He was signed off work by his GP for these  reasons  along  with work related  stress /
anxiety.
Mr P had the benefit of an income  protection policy (the policy) through  his employer  at the
time (the policyholder), which can pay out a portion of his income after hes been off work
for 26 weeks (the deferred  period).
A claim  was made on the policy during  the deferred period which was ultimately declined by
Aviva. In May 2018, after reviewing Mr Ps submissions  together  with the medical records, its
Chief Medical Officer advised that Mr P did not have a significant structural organic disease
as a result of the accident.  Aviva also concluded that theres nothing in Mr Ps medical
records which  show  that his symptoms were  severe  enough to warrant a prolonged absence
from the workplace.
Mr P appealed this decision and provided further  information in support. Aviva maintained its
position for the same  reason, and also that there was nothing to confirm why he was unable
to work  in a sedentary,  office  based role with appropriate modifications,  if required.  After a
further appeal, Aviva wrote  to the policyholder asking it to provide further information about
the amount of travel his role required. In light of the response, Aviva concluded that
attending meetings were  a relatively small part of his role and, on average, he spent  a
minimal amount of time travelling to such meetings each week.
Unhappy, Mr P complained  to our Service. Our investigator initially recommended that Aviva
arrange for an independent report to be carried out by a specialist consultant, the focus
being on the impact Mr Ps medical issues had on his ability to carry out the role he was
doing prior to being signed off sick by his GP.
Both Mr P and Aviva didnt agree and Mr P provided  further medical reports. Our investigator
reviewed everything  again. Having done so, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, he
said Aviva  should pay the claim by backdating the benefit payments from the end of the
deferred period to the point Mr P was no longer incapacitated together with interest.
Aviva disagrees  so Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh
and make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims  promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt turn down a
claim unreasonably. When making a claim,  its for Mr P to demonstrate that he meets  the
definition of incapacity.
Under the policy a member is incapacitated if they are unable to:
perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role as a result of their illness
Ref: DRN08479035or injury
Illness or injury  isnt defined.
Duties are defined as:
The material  and substantial duties that:
Are normally required to perform the job role for the policyholder; and
Perform a significant  and integral  part of the performance of the job role for
the policyholder;  and
Cannot reasonably be omitted  or modified  by the member of the policyholder
Duties do not include the journey to and from work.
Job role is defined as:
a members job role with the policyholder at the time incapacity starts
At the point he was unable to work, Mr P held the position of Sales  Director.  This was a
senior role and included various tasks including managing staff (including four direct
reports), reporting and forecasting, preparing  for and attending client meetings, negotiations
and administration. He was also required to drive  to and from appointments and meetings
during his working day.
At Avivas request, the policyholder provided  a breakdown of the amount of time Mr P spent
travelling to meetings  as part of his role for the six months preceding the start of the deferred
period and it showed that he spent, on average, 17% of his working time travelling to and
from meetings. The policyholder  also confirmed that:
-clients are located  nationwide so there could be a requirement for Mr P to attend
meetings at a number of different locations;
-within that six month window, his calendar showed that he made six visits to clients
offices and off-site meetings; and
-Mr P also met with clients  at both of the offices they operated from.
Relying on that information I dont currently think Aviva has fairly and reasonably  concluded
that travelling to  and attending - meetings  didnt amount to a material  and substantial part
of his duties. Material  and substantial isnt a term which  is separately defined  by the
policy. In this particular case, I dont think its fair to rely solely on the percentage of time
Mr P spent travelling to meetings when  assessing whether  that was integral  part of the Sales
Director role he was carrying out when the deferred period started.
The person specification relating to the role shows that a willingness to travel according  to
business opportunity is a pre-requisite for this role. And its a special condition  that frequent
offsite visits to clients, partners and suppliers may be required.
Further Avivas employer questionnaire  completed by the policyholder in February  2018
asks:
In what  environment  does  your employee work?
And its answered:
Office and travel to different locations for meetings and events
The policyholder also says:
Ref: DRN08479036-A full UK driving licence is necessary to perform Mr Ps occupation  and the role
involves travelling  other than to and from work; and
-Mr P spends a variable  amount of time each day attending client meetings and
undertaking negotiations  and that, in their opinion, his incapacity prevents him from
carrying out this duty.
So Im currently  satisfied that Mr P was normally required  to perform the job role for the
policyholder at the time his incapacity started.  And travelling to and from  and attending  -
meetings was an integral and significant part of his role  albeit he might not have spent  the
majority of his working week undertaking those duties. Although the policyholder has said it
does use telephone and video conferencing facilities   it also says thats only when its
appropriate to do so. So Ive seen  nothing  to support that those duties Mr P was prevented
from doing  can reasonably  be omitted or modified,  given the effects his illness / injury had on
him  which Ive explained  in more detail below.
Im also currently  satisfied that Avivas decision  that it wasnt his illness  / injury which
prevented Mr P from carrying out his duties during the deferred period isnt fair and
reasonable. Im not a medical expert  so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when
making this finding.
Theres much discussion  and disagreement - within  Mr Ps medical  records about  whether
the back  and neck pain and stiffness Mr P experienced  had been caused by a soft tissue
injury or whether there had been damage to his spine (with nerve  irritation).  But I dont think
that really matters when determining whether Mr P was incapacitated.  I think the crux of the
issue is whether  the way in which his illness / injury  manifested  itself prevented him from
carrying out his job role.
Mr P visited his GP within a few days  of the accident and its reflected that he says his pain
has got worse.  His GP records also reflect that Mr P felt pain, particularly in his lower  back,
throughout the deferred  period including  in October and November 2017,  and January 2018.
However, the GP notes  dont provide much  detail about the impact that pain  or his injury -
was having on Mr P (although he was prescribed a number of different painkillers  and those
prescriptions were regularly repeated). However,  there is a referral letter from Mr Ps GP to a
spinal surgeon dated 6 April 2018 which  says Mr P complained of neck and lower  back pain,
he was in constant pain and he struggled with walking.  Whilst that letter was written around
six weeks after the end of the deferred  period its not inconsistent with whats recorded  in the
GP notes before then.
Ive also seen  a letter from Mr Ps chiropractor which was written towards the end of the
deferred period, in early February 2018. The chiropractor says theyd been treating Mr P on
a weekly basis since September  2017 and hed been diagnosed with:
- acute  lumbo  / pelvic dysfunction with myofascial  hypertrophy
- acute  whiplash injury to the cervical spine, with associated  cervical facet dysfunction
 and myofascial  hypertrophy;  and
- acute  cervicogenic  headaches,  associated to the whiplash injury
They subsequently reported  in June  2018  that although there had been some improvement
in his symptoms, due to severity and complexity of his injury, it will take extensive time and
treatment to recover from them  possibly a further six months. But again, the chiropractors
letters dont provide  any details about how Mr Ps symptoms were affecting  him  other than
to confirm that he was in a lot of pain.
Ive also seen  two, somewhat conflicting, opinions from spinal consultant orthopaedic
surgeons. The first consultant  spinal  orthopaedic surgeon (the first consultant) Mr P saw
reported on 18 April 2018 that Mr P had ongoing pain in his back, radiating into his left arm.
Ref: DRN08479037An examination revealed that hed regained 75% of the range in motion in his neck  and his
back seemed  to be recovering. They arranged  an MRI scan to see if there was a fracture  or
dislocation. In light of the result of that MRI they reported no evidence of a fracture of
anything which would account for the pain he was feeling. There  had been wear and tear
changes in his lower  lumbar  spine but in their opinion  this wouldnt cause neck  or upper
spine discomfort. The first consultant recommended Mr P attend a functional  rehabilitation
programme combined with pain management, and psychotherapy.
Mr P obtained  a second opinion  and the second consultant  spinal  orthopaedic surgeon (the
second consultant) reported  on 9 July 2018  that Mr P walked with a very guarded gait and
forward bending  was grossly restricted. They also said that backward extension  was
restricted  as were neck movements. They concluded that the MRI scan showed no
significant compression in the cervical spine but a very degenerate disc at L4/5 with disc
protrusion centrally  with migration behind  L5 vertebral body . A nuclear bone scan and CT
scan were  arranged  and the second consultant reported that they revealed a significant
osteoblastic irregularity localised at the L4/L5 disco vertebral segment with prominent
intense and plain degenerative changes. The second consultant observed  that Mr P was
"quite  disabled by the pain". They commented that he was unable to continue  with his work
as this involved a lot of travelling. It was also noted that sitting in chairs  was uncomfortable
for Mr P and he struggled with walking,  bending, lifting and was unable to stand for a
significant period of time.
Although this was reported around four months after the end of the deferred period, it does
explain how his symptoms were affecting  Mr P. And its consistent with how Mr P was
reporting how he was feeling during the deferred period. For example, two months into the
deferred period in October 2017, a medical  report was prepared by an independent  expert
GP (for court purposes). That report reflects that Mr P complained of severe lower back  and
neck pain, and stiffness. And that Mr P reported that since the accident he wasnt able to
walk his dog and he and his wife had to rely on help from friends  to look after children  as
Mr P was unable to do this. He also said he had postural difficulties, reduced concentration
and pain. And cleaning, cooking, ironing, self-care  and vacuuming were more  strenuous
than usual. A physical examination revealed that Mr P was in severe pain on forward flexion
and had significant paravertebral tenderness.
Ive also placed more  weight  on whats been said by the second  consultant than the first
consultant because in the autumn of 2018, Mr P did undergo radiofrequency treatment to the
medical branch of the nerve to the facet  joints at L3, L4 and L5. And when this didnt  improve
Mr Ps symptoms, he ended up having surgery in January  2019, undergoing  a discectomy
and fusion. Although there were complications,  and he needed to wear a back brace  for
some time thereafter, the subsequent  reports suggest that the surgery did start to relieve his
symptoms somewhat and he did start finding activities easier to carry out and was able to
start driving again. This would contradict the first consultants  opinion that, based on their
investigations, nothing could be found that would  account for the pain Mr P was feeling.
I also note that Mr Ps GP also provided a written opinion in September 2018 explaining that
Mr P wasnt capable  of completing any work-related tasks until his symptoms had resolved
and he shouldnt be driving any distance.
In light of the collective medical  evidence,  Im currently persuaded that its more  likely  than
not that Mr Ps absence from work was due to his back injury / illness  and that this, in all
likelihood, prevented  him from carrying out duties associated to his job role. And Aviva has
unreasonably concluded  otherwise. Theres evidence  that Mr P was unable to walk,  sit and /
or stand for a significant amount of time, which wouldve prevented him from being able to
attend meetings. It wouldve also prevented him from travelling to meetings. And for the
reasons Ive set out above, Im currently persuaded that these were  material and substantial
duties of the role he was carrying out at the time he became absent.
Ive taken into account what Aviva says about Mr P also being unable  to work because of
Ref: DRN08479038work related  stress and anxiety and that stress  isnt a recognised illness.  Work related stress
 or equivalent  is listed as one of the reasons Mr P is unable to work on the medical
certificates issued by Mr Ps throughout his absence.  Ive thought about  whether  this was the
main barrier to Mr P returning to work.
I note that soon after the accident, in early September 2017, the GP notes  that Mr P was
under stress  due to problems with employment  getting legal advice about constructive
dismissal  and two weeks after that hed been told he was at risk of redundancy  and was
getting legal advice.
Mr Ps counsellor also wrote a letter in February 2018 saying that he was suffering with
severe work-related stress and wasnt well enough  to attend a meeting with his employer
and his ongoing situation  with his employer  would appear to be a major contributing  factor
to this, affecting his ability to move forward, impacting his home life and general health.
However, the letter does go and say that this issue  combined with his other chronic health
conditions and amount  of medication he was then on was putting  increasing amounts of
pressure on an already intolerable situation.
So, whilst I accept that Mr Ps existing work situation  and the stress  it was causing him 
was a factor in his absence  from work, in light of all the medical evidence Ive seen,  I dont
have enough to reasonably conclude that if the work-related issues Mr P experienced hadnt
been there, he wouldve been able to work  during the deferred period.
And all in all, Im intending to find that Avivas decision  to decline the claim on the basis that
Mr P was incapacitated wasnt fair or reasonable.
putting things  right
By way of letter dated 25 March 2019 the policyholder provided Mr P with six months notice
to terminate his employment on the grounds of redundancy.  He was notified that he wasnt
required to work out his notice period and he would  receive payment in lieu.
Mr P says he started a new job, working from home and on a lower salary, with effect of
July 2019. The fact that he started another job then doesnt necessarily mean  that at that
time he wouldve  been  able to able to perform the role that he was doing  for the policyholder
immediately before  he was signed off sick from work  particularly as it doesnt look like his
new job requires  him to travel to, and attend, various  appointments  which, as Ive said
above, was an integral part of the job he was doing before.
However, in light of the contents of a medico-legal report dated August 2019,  produced for
purposes of court action by an anaesthesia and pain management consultant, Im currently
persuaded that by July 2019, had his employment with the policyholder  not been terminated,
its likely  he wouldve been able to return back to work  for it then. And had his claim  under
the policy  been accepted  as I think  it shouldve,  the monthly benefit is likely  to have ceased
by July 2019  at the latest.
The medico-legal report  reflects Mr P reported his current symptoms to be:
- constant low-grade  back  pain, aggravated by sitting for more than five minutes,
standing for more than five minutes  or walking  a limited  distance;
- intermittent neck pain;
- bilateral  frozen  shoulders limiting his range of movement;
- unable to reach below  the waist and avoids bending forward;
- limited  in lifting or carrying; and
- pins and needles in legs resolved following operation in January 2019.
However, its also said that Mr P returned to driving  in April 2019,  he finds  heated seats very
Ref: DRN08479039helpful and uses them on all journeys. Importantly, in the context of this particular complaint,
it goes on to say that hes currently able to drive  for approximately two hours. So, if he was
able to sit for two hours,  and drive for that length of time, I think its likely that he wouldve
been able to carry  out the role of Sales Director,  particularly  as the report also says his
ability to write  and type was unaffected.
Mr P received his full salary from the policyholder covering the period 25 March and
24 September 2019 as part of the payment he received  in lieu of remaining employed during
his six months  notice  period. So, he hasnt experienced any financial losses from the end of
March to July 2019.
So, Im proposing that Aviva put things right by paying the policyholder a sum equivalent to
the monthly benefits Mr P shouldve  received from the date the deferred period ended  to
24 March  2019 inclusive (with the expectation  that the policyholder forwards that payment to
Mr P).
Aviva should also calculate  8% simple  interest on the monthly benefits that shouldve been
paid under  the policy  from the date on which each payment  was due to be paid to the date
payment is actually  made to the policyholder and pay that to Mr P directly*.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I propose that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited
put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman
*If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  considers  its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to
take off income  tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It
should also give him a certificate  showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0847903