K821x#15Complaint
Miss J is seeking to recover £15,000  from HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct), 
which was stolen from her bank account  as a result of a third-party scam.
First Direct  says it is not liable for the loss because Miss J unwittingly authorised the 
payment  and it could  not reasonably have intervened or done more  to try to recoup the
money from the payee bank.
My provisional decision 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 
October 2020. I provide a copy of my findings  from that decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to uphold this
complaint for the following reasons:
Its common ground that Miss J authorised the scam  payment of £15,000 in August 2017.  
She was befriended by the scammer  on an online dating website during a particularly difficult 
and vulnerable time in her life  Miss J was depressed and having to look after her very 
poorly mum. After about a month  of talking, Miss J was persuaded by the scammer into 
instructing the bank  over the phone  to transfer  money to him. She was told the money was 
for a marriage certificate so he could  leave the army and return home  to be with her. Miss J 
believed she was in a relationship with the scammer and so trusted what  he said and wanted  
to help him.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Miss J was the victim of a
sophisticated scam. She used her security  credentials to request the payment. So,
although she was tricked into making the payment, under the Payment Services
Regulations (PSRs), Miss J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider
First Direct  should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in
some cases  declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied there were  fraud triggers in this case.  Miss J was transferring a large
amount of money  via an international transfer and when  compared to the usual activity
on both her accounts, this stands  out. She also had to transfer the money from her
savings account  into her current account to facilitate the payment, and again, when
Ref: DRN08253662taking into account  the substantial amount involved, this was unusual for Miss J. In
addition, Miss J told First Direct the payment was for a marriage certificate so her partner
could return home from the US military. She explained  she was sending  the money  to
the US military via an intermediary in the UAE.  This is an unusual reason for a payment,
and even more  unusual is that it was being sent through an intermediary in a different
country to its final destination.  So, when coupled  with the amount Miss J was sending,
Im satisfied there were  clear signs she could be at risk of fraud.
I think the transaction was sufficiently unusual that First Direct shouldve sensitively
probed further, using  their knowledge of scams to steer  the conversation.  I dont think
you need to have extensive  knowledge of the US military  to find a request to pay
£15,000 for a marriage certificate,  as out of the ordinary. Miss J was vulnerable at that
time and First Direct were  the experts  here.  First Direct doesnt agree, pointing  out that
this service is imposing too high a standard on the duty of care it owes to Miss J. It says
Miss J had already  given  an explanation  for the payment  and it doesnt believe  further
questioning wouldve made a difference.  I agree  that the member  of staff asked Miss J
what the payment  was for in the course  of facilitating  the transfer  it needed this
information for the payment instruction. However, they didnt ask Miss J any appropriate
follow-up or probing questions. In my judgment, given they are the experts in this
situation, they could and should have done more given the unusual  nature of the
payment.
Had First Direct probed further,  taking  into account its knowledge of fraud and scams, I
believe it wouldve been able to cast enough doubt in Miss Js mind  for her to not
proceed with the payment. We have to remember that Miss J may not have realised  the
unusual nature of the request, as she was vulnerable at the time and already under the
spell cast by the scammer. However, First Direct wasnt and so using its superior
knowledge of scam  situations, shouldve been  alert to the fact Miss J might have been at
risk of financial  harm. The reason given for the payment was so unusual  even to
someone with no knowledge of the US military - that First Direct  shouldve been
suspicious of where the instruction for this payment was coming from. Miss J had also
mentioned on the call shed already been  sending money to the scammer  for the same
reason  so this shouldve peaked the advisors  concern too, given she was requesting a
further £15,000. Had the advisor probed, he may have  discovered further  information  about 
Miss Js partner, such as theyd met online or had only been  speaking for a month
or so. Both being red flags  for this type of scam. Or perhaps simply concern on her
banks part, or a fraud warning, wouldve been enough to cast doubt in Miss Js mind.
I acknowledge it can be difficult to break the spell in this type of scam - emotions are
involved and often  the scammers  have gone to great lengths to manipulate  the victim.
However, Im persuaded that had First Direct  probed and warned Miss J the loss
couldve been prevented. Miss J had only been  speaking to the scammer for a month  or
so prior to him asking for this money. So, the relationship wasnt long running at the point
of the scam. Although  it was the content of the fake marriage certificate  that first caused
Miss J to become suspicious  of the scammer,  it was a conversation Miss J had with her
friend that solidified her suspicions and caused her to report the scam. Her friend
expressed his concerns  over the reason  the scammer had given for the payment.  It
therefore seems likely that had First Direct, a trusted financial institution,  expressed the
same concerns prior to her making the payment,  she wouldve thought twice about
sending it. Miss J could then have carried out the necessary checks  on the marriage
certificate story,  speaking  to family  and friends  in the process,  and it seems extremely
likely the story wouldnt  have stood up to scrutiny.
Ref: DRN08253663In other  words, taking  all the above  into account, but for First Directs failure to probe and
provide a warning, Im satisfied the scam would probably not have succeeded.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from
the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers.
I have also considered whether Miss J should bear some responsibility by way of
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of
authorising the payment, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate
what she was doing or the consequences of her actions. She believed  the man shed
met online loved  her and hed woven a web of lies to manipulate her and her emotions.
Miss J was vulnerable at the time and its clear the scammer took advantage of that. Im
therefore satisfied  there  was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Miss J was
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever  fraudster.
In the circumstances Im satisfied First Direct should fairly and reasonably  reimburse
Miss J for the loss she suffered without any reduction together with interest to
compensate her for being  deprived of the money  she lost. I am satisfied that had the
fraudster not taken the money from Miss J it wouldve remained in her savings  account,
so interest should  be at that rate.
First Direct  should also refund Miss J the charges  she incurred in for making the
payment and the subsequent investigation  following her reporting it as a scam.
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest  award  of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience Miss J has suffered. In reaching  that conclusion Im mindful that her loss
and a great deal of her emotional upset  was ultimately caused by the callous act of a
fraudster and it was an authorised transaction. However, First Direct could ultimately
have prevented the payment and some of the stress  that came with losing this money.
So subject to any further representations from Miss J or First Direct I was minded to uphold 
the complaint.
Miss J accepted the provisional decision.  
First Direct  disagreed with my provisional decision. It placed emphasis on the legal case of 
Barclays Bank plc v Quincecare Ltd [1992] 4 All ER 363, which it feels  I didnt address 
sufficiently and, as a result, made  it difficult for it to respond to the provisional decision.  It 
says the Quincecare  ruling means its responsibility to be alert to fraud  is subordinate to its 
contractual duty to promptly execute  a payment  order.
First Direct  also took issue with the degree of knowledge we expected the telephone 
representative to have had of the situation,  especially  when taking into account this is a 
historic payment. It says it is not reasonable for us to expect the telephone representative to 
have known Miss J had only met the scammer online a few months ago when she was 
talking about marriage in the call. And it says that even if the representative had raised 
further questions  about the payment with Miss J, it seems likely she wouldve been  happy to 
proceed. 
Ref: DRN08253664First Direct  also disagree that Miss J wasnt negligent. It says customers  should  protect  
themselves by undertaking some basic research  and due diligence before making payments. 
It pointed to the fact there are warnings  on the internet about dating  scams and it would 
appear Miss J chose to disregard  these.  It also noted that we havent seen the email 
communication Miss J had with the scammer  and there may have been red flags there that 
Miss J shouldve  picked  up before making  the payment. First Direct maintain it was much  
more likely to have  been Miss Js carelessness and misplaced confidence which  caused her 
loss, rather than anything  its telephone  representative couldve said to provide a warning.  
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as I explained 
in my provisional decision.
We have to take account of relevant law  but were not bound by it because of our wider
fair and reasonable jurisdiction. Nevertheless, Ive considered Quincecare carefully 
but it doesnt change my mind as to whether First Direct ought to have intervened  in the
circumstances of this complaint. It is well-established that there is a balance  to be struck.
The ratio of Quincecare was neatly  summarised  by the then President  of the Supreme
Court, Lady  Hale, in her judgment in Singularis Holdings  Ltd v Daiwa Capital Markets
Europe Ltd [2019] UKSC  50:
[The judge] held that it was an implied term of the contract between  a bank and its customer
that the bank would use reasonable  skill and care in and about executing the customers
orders; this was subject to the conflicting duty to execute those orders promptly so as to avoid
causing financial loss to the customer; but there would be liability  if the bank executed the 
order knowing  it to be dishonestly given, or shut its eyes to the obvious  fact of the dishonesty,
or acted recklessly in failing to make such inquiries as an honest and reasonable man would
make; and the bank should refrain from executing an order if and for so long as it was put on
inquiry by having reasonable grounds for believing that the order  was an attempt to
misappropriate funds.
Lady Hale uses the words subject  to rather than subordinate when referring  to
conflicting duties  on the bank. I dont  think its quite right to characterise  Quincecare as
concluding that one duty is always to be regarded as subordinate to another.  It is,
perhaps, worth quoting  the actual words  of Mr Justice Steyn  in the passage  that is often
used to summarise the ratio, or deciding reasons, of Quincecare (my emphasis):
The law should not impose too burdensome an obligation  on bankers, which  hampers the
effective transacting of banking business unnecessarily.  On the other hand,  the law should
guard against the facilitation  of fraud, and exact a reasonable standard  of care in order to
combat fraud and to protect bank customers and innocent third parties. To hold that a bank is
only liable when it has displayed  a lack of probity would  be much too restrictive an approach.
On the other hand, to impose liability whenever speculation might suggest  dishonesty would
impose wholly  impractical standards  on bankers. In my judgment the sensible
compromise, which strikes a fair balance between  competing considerations, is simply
to say that a banker must refrain from executing an order if and for as long as the
banker is put on inquiry in the sense that he has reasonable grounds  (although not
necessarily proof) for believing that the order is an attempt to misappropriate the funds
of the [customer]...
Ref: DRN08253665So, we too  though  not bound by the law but resolving disputes by what we regard as
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances   are looking to strike  a fair balance between
competing considerations. 
In any event, as well as the duties set out in Quincecare, when thinking about
whats fair and reasonable, banks and we do also need to take account of the wider
regulatory environment  for the protection of consumers, such  as the Financial Conduct
Authoritys general  principles on treating customers fairly, and any relevant codes of
good conduct and/or good industry  practice.  
In brief summary, in addition to the PSRs  and Quincecare, First Direct and we have to be 
mindful that (amongst  other things):
Regulated banks  must  conduct their business  with due skill, care and diligence 
(FCA Principle for Businesses 2) pay due regard to the interests  of [their]  customers
(Principle 6);
Banks have a longstanding regulatory  duty to take reasonable care to establish and
maintain effective systems and controls  for compliance with applicable  requirements
and standards  under  the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm
might be used to further financial crime  (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct
Authority Handbook,  which  has applied since 2001);
Regulated banks  are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. At the material 
time, those  requirements included maintaining  proportionate  and risk-sensitive
policies and procedures  to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk, e.g.
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the
business relationship (including through the scrutiny  of transactions undertaken
throughout the course of the relationship).
I dont see any conflict between the outcome proposed in my provisional  decision and
the relevant caselaw and/or regulatory codes (etc). Ultimately, my view and the courts
position appear broadly comparable and seek to achieve a fair and reasonable outcome
as between the parties. 
I dont expect banks  to distrust their customers;  or act as amateur  detectives;  or 
unreasonably disrupt  transactions  that appear (and are) legitimate; or ignore the general  
principle that consumers also have responsibility for their decisions and the payments they 
authorise. But I do think there are certain  cases where, on those specific  facts, it would have 
been fair and reasonable for a bank to take action.  This is because the fraud alerts that they 
are supposed to deploy for regulatory and legal reasons, probably could and should have 
been triggered by transactions so unusual or uncharacteristic as to arouse  reasonable 
grounds for believing  that the authorised payment is in fact an attempt to misappropriate  
funds. And for the reasons set out in the provisional decision, Im persuaded that this is just 
such a case. 
I accept that we should not place undue expectations on the knowledge and expertise of 
staff. However, staff should  have the necessary training  to be on the look out for potential 
scams and recognise  when a customer is at risk of financial  harm. As I said in my provisional 
decision, the payment of £15,000 for a marriage  certificate was highly  unusual,  as was the 
payment journey that Miss J had laid out to the advisor. First Direct has pointed to the fact 
the advisor did ask some  question and Miss J told them shed sent payments  before, was 
confident on where  they were going and to whom they were being sent. However, that is 
Ref: DRN08253666likely to be the case with these types  of scams.  Given  the unusual request  for the payment,  
Im still of the opinion  First Direct shouldve probed further and given Miss J a warning.  And 
had it done so, as Ive already explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied this 
wouldve more likely  made  a difference and the scam couldve been prevented. 
First Direct  maintain that there  are numerous internet warnings about dating scams  which  
justifies a finding  of contributory negligence  on Miss Js part. It says its reasonable to expect 
that when parting with such a large  sum of money a customer should exercise some caution 
and take steps  to understand  what it is they are doing. Could  Miss J have done some  
research into how much a marriage  certificate should cost,  or have questioned the legitimacy  
of the emails she received from the scammer?  Yes. But is this what led to her loss? No. In 
my view, it was the failure of First Direct that really  caused  the loss  but for its inaction in 
the face of unusual or uncharacteristic activity,  the loss probably  wouldnt have  occurred. Ive 
taken into account  the level of emotional  manipulation in these types  of scams is high  to 
the victims  this isnt just a monetary transaction that requires research and due diligence. It 
is carried out because  of the emotional connection that had been  forged because of weeks 
(and sometimes months) of manipulation on the part of the scammer. Its important to 
remember Miss J was particularly vulnerable at the time as well, so more  susceptible to this 
manipulation. 
Any errors by Miss J were  effectively  superseded by First Directs errors, breaking the causal 
chain, so Im not persuaded they played a material role in the loss that actually unfolded. I 
dont think it can fairly  be said that she, the layperson, was to blame in this scenario  or that 
her compensation should be reduced  accordingly.  A person needs to reasonably foresee the 
risk of some sort of loss  not necessarily the precise loss that occurred  in order  to be held 
liable in negligence. Ive seen nothing to suggest  she was aware  of any of the internet 
warnings First Direct is relying on and no obvious  red flags  in the email communication Miss 
J has been able to provide. Given this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that 
Miss J was careless or partly responsible for a loss that she simply did not foresee. First 
Direct hasnt  persuaded me that Miss J recognised the risk or contributed to her own 
misfortune through  careless acts or omissions  when  making the payment. So, as I said in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied there  was no contributory negligence on this occasion.
It follows that my decision to uphold Miss Js complaint remains unchanged.  
Ref: DRN08253667My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint
about HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct)  and I therefore  require the bank to:
Pay Miss J £15,000  within  28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my
final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the date
of refund.
Refund the £4 Miss J was charged for making the payment and £25 she was
charged for the subsequent investigation.
Pay Miss J £300  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Sarah Brimacombe 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0825366