K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about her mortgage  lender, The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS).
Mrs C is unhappy that RBS:
-unfairly declined  an application to convert  her joint mortgage  into her sole name in 
2017;
-led her to believe the application in 2017  would be approved  and shes  suffered ever 
since because of its mistake;
-hasnt done  enough to help her following the death of her ex-husband Mr C. RBS has 
caused her financial  difficulties to worsen.  It wouldnt agree to extend the term of her 
mortgage in 2019  or give her a lower  interest  rate to help.
Mrs C would like RBS to extend  the term of her mortgage by five years, backdating  this to 
when she asked for this in 2017.  Shed like a lower interest rate and for her mortgage to be 
switched to interest only for a while to help her get back  on track.  
background
Mrs C has a capital repayment  mortgage with RBS.  The mortgage was taken out jointly with 
Mrs Cs late ex-husband  Mr C, in 2010.  Mr and Mr C had borrowed £115,000  to be repaid  
over 20 years. In 2013 Mr and Mrs C borrowed an additional  £40,000,  also on a capital 
repayment basis. The further advance was set up with same end date as the main  mortgage 
loan.
In August  2017  Mrs C contacted RBS. She said shed separated from Mr C and that she was 
going to struggle to meet  the mortgage  payments. Mrs C wanted  to explore moving the 
mortgage into her sole name,  and extending the term of the mortgage to lower  her 
repayments.  
RBS declined the application  at an early stage. Later the same year RBS contacted  Mrs C 
about her mortgage.  An advisor said they thought they could help her remortgage in her sole 
name, and extend  the term. A full application was submitted  but it was declined  by RBS  
underwriters. Mrs C complained about  this at the time but she says she had problems 
getting RBS to respond to her complaint.
RBS issued its final response on 23 January 2018.  It said it hadnt made a mistake  when  it 
declined Mrs Cs mortgage  application. But it agreed its customer service  could have been  
better. Mrs C brought her complaint to us in June 2018.
While this complaint has been  with us Mr C has passed away. So now the mortgage is in her 
sole name. Mrs Cs explained that things have  remained very difficult for her. Again, more 
recently, Mrs Cs asked  RBS what it could do to help her. It explored  extending  the term of 
Mrs Cs mortgage. However  RBS said it couldnt extend the term of Mrs Cs mortgage 
beyond her turning  65. Mrs C queried  this as shed previously been looking to extend the 
mortgage to when she was 70. RBS said it didnt think  Mrs C could afford the mortgage  if it 
was extended  to when she reached 65.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs complaint. He thought that RBS had acted reasonably  in 
declining Mrs Cs mortgage  application in 2017. But he thought  RBS should have done more  
to help Mrs C in 2019. He thought it was clear  that Mrs C was in financial difficulty and that 
RBS should extend the mortgage term. Mrs C told our investigator  she could retire at 70. 
Ref: DRN00693792Our investigator also thought RBS should pay £250 to Mrs C for the trouble and upset 
caused to her by its poor customer service.
RBS said it would agree to our investigators recommendations but it wanted  to meet with 
Mrs C to discuss extending  the term of the mortgage. Mrs C wasnt happy with our 
investigators findings. She replied to say, in summary she didnt think the compensation was 
high enough  and that RBSs delays and inconsistent advice had caused serious problems 
for her and Mr C in recent  years.
Mrs C also wanted the extension of the mortgage term should be backdated  to when she 
first made the request  to have her mortgage term extended in 2017- not from January 2019 
as our investigator had thought was fair.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision dated 21 June  2019  setting out my thoughts on this case. My 
provisional decision said:
Ive focused on the two separate periods of time when Mrs C asked RBS to change  her 
mortgage as these are two distinct events.
Mrs Cs application to change the mortgage to her sole name in 2017  
In 2017 Mrs C wanted to explore removing Mr Cs name from the mortgage, and extending 
the term to make the mortgage more affordable for her to pay on her own going forward.  
Ive looked at what happened in 2017,  and Ive thought about  the reasons this application 
didnt go ahead. There was an early request for help but that didnt progress. There  was then 
another approach made by RBS, inviting Mrs C to apply to change her mortgage  only for the 
underwriters to decline the application. 
RBS has said it wouldnt agree an application for a mortgage in Mrs Cs sole name because 
it had concerns about whether it would  be affordable  for her. Ive looked  at the notes 
recorded by RBS underwriter at the time. 
RBS had completed a review of Mrs Cs income and her expenditure. The underwriter was 
worried that Mrs C was dependent on money from Mr C to be able to pay the mortgage, and 
that there  had been months  when  Mr C hadnt paid this money to her. There  were  months  
when payments had been  made  late, although  Mrs C is definite that no repayments  were 
missed. She says repayments  were on occasion paid late but within  the relevant calendar  
month. 
The underwriter also recorded concerns  about  the conduct of other RBS accounts.
In RBS final response, dated January 2018,  it said all applications are subject to 
underwriting and must pass its affordability checks. It apologised if Mrs C had got the 
impression that a transfer to her sole name would be agreed.
Ref: DRN00693793I think RBSs final response  is a bit misleading.  I can understand why RBS sent Mrs Cs 
request to the underwriters and I do think the underwriter  gave  it reasonable consideration. 
But it isnt true that all applications must  pass affordability checks. For existing mortgages 
taken out before regulations were  introduced in 2014, there are transitional arrangements 
that enable the lender to make exceptions to the usual affordability checks  in cases  like this. 
A lender can choose to agree to change a mortgage, despite it failing the affordability 
assessment, if it considers the application  is otherwise in the best interests  of its customer.
In this instance, Ive thought about the wider circumstances  of the joint mortgage and the 
financial affairs of Mr and Mrs C. Overall, I think it was reasonable that RBS asked that 
Mrs C show that she could manage  the mortgage  payments independently  for six months (in 
full and on time without  being reliant on Mr Cs contribution that was not always made)  
before it would agree to remove Mr C from the mortgage and agree  to extend the term. Mrs 
C doesnt say if she went back to RBS after six months so Im unclear if she managed to 
maintain this arrangement or not. Ive taken  into account the transitional arrangements  in 
saying that, and I dont think it would have  been in Mrs Cs best interests  for her to be made  
solely responsible  for the mortgage  without  some evidence she could manage  to repay it on 
her own.
However, Im persuaded that RBS raised  Mrs Cs expectations about whether shed be able 
to have the mortgage approved. I can appreciate why she was so disheartened to have her 
application declined  having been led to believe it had a very good chance  of success. This 
was clearly a really difficult time for Mrs C and she was struggling to make  ends meet.  I can 
understand how upsetting  this situation would  have been for her. Mrs C also experienced 
problems making her complaint and getting an answer to her concerns. I uphold  the part of 
Mrs Cs complaint about RBSs poor customer service and misleading information, even 
though I think  RBSs underwriter acted reasonably  in declining  her mortgage application. 
Mrs Cs application to extend the term of her mortgage in 2019
In 2019 Mrs C asked  RBS if it could extend  the term of her mortgage or give her a lower 
interest rate to help her. RBS said it couldnt change the interest rate on Mrs Cs borrowing 
as her mortgage loans  were on fixed rate products (of 3.54% or 2.98%) that wouldnt expire 
until 2020. RBS had said that if Mrs C had wanted to apply for a new fixed rate product  shed  
have needed to pay over £2,000 in early  repayment  charges (ERCs).  I dont think  its 
unreasonable that RBS didnt encourage Mrs C to change her mortgage interest rate.
But I think RBS could  have done  more to explore  what other  options  it could offer to help at 
that point. RBS considered extending  the term of the mortgage, but it wouldnt extend the 
mortgage beyond  the age of 65. The underwriter has recorded  this Mrs Cs retirement  age. 
On the basis of extending the term only to when Mrs C is 65, RBS decided the mortgage 
wasnt affordable. 
Mrs C has told our investigator that she can work until she is 70 and that she isnt planning 
to retire at 65. Mrs C has said that shed like the mortgage term extended until shes 70 and 
that she considers  the mortgage  would  be affordable for her if it was. Its possible the 
underwriter has assumed Mrs Cs state pension  age is the same as her retirement date.  But 
theres no obligation to retire then,  or at all, and RBS should base its decisions on Mrs Cs 
reasonable actual retirement plan.
Ref: DRN00693794Its also worth bearing in mind that the rules around affordability assessments dont apply 
where changes  to a mortgage are made for reasons of forbearance and to make a 
borrowers situation more affordable, as would  be the case  here. So I dont think  a full 
affordability assessment  was necessary   RBS should have treated this as a request for a 
form of forbearance,  not as a lending application subject to an affordability assessment.
what do I think should happen now?
It may be there  is some  misunderstanding between the parties about Mrs Cs plans for 
retirement and her financial priorities. RBS has asked to have a discussion with Mrs C about 
her plans and I think this is a very good idea.  I also think  it should be sorted out as soon as 
possible. 
I think RBS should  discuss  extending  the mortgage  term with Mrs C until she is 70. It should 
show Mrs C how much her monthly repayments  will be, and try to show  her how much  of the 
mortgage will still be outstanding when she reaches 65. It is important that Mrs C is fully 
aware of the mortgage debt that she will still need  to repay  around  the time shes  planning to 
retire. This discussion should be centred on whether this is the right form of forbearance to 
help Mrs C with her financial  difficulties.
If Mrs C and RBS decide  that it would be in Mrs Cs best interests to extend her mortgage 
term to the date at which she is 70, in full knowledge  of what this will mean  for Mrs C in 
terms of her repayments now and in years to come, and taking into account  her wider 
circumstances including  her actual retirement  plans, then I think RBS should extend the term 
of her mortgage. 
If Mrs C decides to extend the term, I think it would be reasonable for this to be backdated  to 
January 2019  when  Mrs C first asked for further  help in financial difficulty. This will mean that 
Mrs C has paid more than she needed  towards  her mortgage each month  since  January. To 
put things right, if it is agreed that Mrs C wishes  to extend the mortgage term, Mrs C should  
decide whether  she would rather:
-receive a refund  of overpayments shes paid towards the mortgage each month 
(above and beyond the lower monthly repayment needed  on an extended term) plus 
8% interest; or 
-keep the additional overpayments shes made on her mortgage account. Mrs C 
may wish to use this additional  capital to shorten the loan term, or enable the 
mortgage to be switched to interest only for a period of time. The capital portion of 
her monthly repayments could be covered by her overpayments. This would mean 
Mrs C has the benefit  of even lower  payments  of interest only for a time to help her 
get back on track.
Ive already said that I think RBS customer service fell short  of expectations  in 2017. And I 
think it could have  done more to help Mrs C in 2019  when she reached out to it for help in 
her financial  difficulties. I think it should pay Mrs C £500 for the trouble and upset caused to 
her by its handling of her mortgage account.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs C replied to say she:
Ref: DRN00693795-believes the decision not to give her a sole mortgage in 2017  was largely due to RBS 
making mistakes in the way it recorded the timing of her payments and the way it 
recorded this on her credit file;
-was told in 2017 that affordability was tight,  but that there were additional criteria to 
help in this situation.  Mrs C believes RBS was referring to the transitional 
arrangements that Ive mentioned. Shed doesnt  understand why her 2017  request 
wasnt agreed under the transitional arrangements but yet her 2019 request was;
-since 2017 Mrs C has been paying  over £900 per month for her mortgage, and this 
could have been more like £500 if RBS had agreed to extend the term. Shes  had to 
put purchases on her credit card because RBS wouldnt agree to let her agree  the 
term of the mortgage; and
-Mrs C considers the £500  compensation to be an insult and holds RBS responsible  
for what happened to Mr C. She says while no amount of money  will bring Mr C back  
she wants compensation in line with what RBS has cost her.
RBS didnt want to add any further  comments for my consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive thought carefully about 
the further points  Mrs C has made in response to my decision.
I understand the points that Mrs C is making.  First, she questions whether the reason she 
didnt get the mortgage  converted to her sole name (and term extended  in 2017) was due to 
a problem with her credit file and the way RBS recorded her repayments. I dont understand 
that to be the case having  read the underwriters notes. Ive explained  that there were 
concerns about  whether Mrs C could afford the mortgage alone and other  joint borrowing 
held with RBS.  
RBS had concerns  that meant  it wasnt willing to remove Mr Cs name from the mortgage. 
From my reading  of the notes made at the time,  it was a combination  of factors  that led to 
the decline of the mortgage term and decision to convert it into Mrs Cs sole name.  
Ive already said I think when all the concerns were  considered as a whole, I dont think its 
unreasonable or unfair that RBS declined to convert the mortgage to Mrs Cs sole name or 
extend the term at that time.  It had wider concerns about the conduct of other borrowing in 
joint names with RBS held at that time, and Mr and Mrs C had very recently separated. RBS 
asked that Mrs C demonstrate that she wasnt dependent on Mr Cs income to pay the 
mortgage for six months. 
Mrs Cs made it clear  that shes very unhappy with the compensation Ive awarded.  I see 
that this matter is emotive and why Mrs C is so upset. This complaint  has happened at an 
already difficult time for Mrs C and her family. The compensation Ive awarded is certainly 
not intended to put a value on Mr Cs life. 
Ref: DRN00693796I appreciate that Mrs C has had an incredibly  difficult few years for a whole host of reasons.  
Its my role to assess what upset and inconvenience  has been caused  by what  RBS has 
done wrong, and to award compensation for the upset directly caused by RBSs mistakes. I 
think RBS could have  provided a better customer service in 2017- but that its lending 
decision made at that time was reasonable. I think RBS should  have  acted sooner to try to 
help Mrs C in 2019, and that it should now work  with Mrs C to explore options to extend her 
mortgage into retirement. It has agreed to do this but it could have done this sooner. 
For RBS part in the upset caused to Mrs C by its poor customer service, and its failure to do 
more to help her in 2019, I consider the award of £500 to be fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc.
To put things right I direct  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
-speak with Mrs C to discuss a term extension to when Mrs C is 70;
-should RBS and Mrs C agree that a term extension helps Mrs C in her financial 
difficulty, retrospectively apply a term extension  from January 2019,- extending Mrs 
Cs mortgage until she is 70. Mrs C should decide how she wants the overpayments 
on her mortgage account to be handled in line with my comments above;
-pay Mrs C £500 for the trouble and upset  caused to Mrs C through  its shortcomings 
in customer service  and complaint handling.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0069379