K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester (Lloyds), mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs O bought  the policy in 2006  after taking out a further advance on their mortgage. 
The policy was to cover  the whole of their mortgage.  They  applied  for the mortgage and PPI 
policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr O for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £643.08 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Os 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim as well as an additional  payment  of 
£3.00 for every £1,000 Mr and Mrs O borrowed. At the time, it cost £53.44 a month. 
At the time,  Mr O was employed  as a facilities manager. He has told us he was entitled  to 
employee sick pay if he was too unwell to work.  He didnt have any other financial means, 
such as savings, he could  have relied upon to make  the mortgage  repayments if he wasnt 
working. Mr O has told us he was entitled to redundancy pay in the event he lost his job.    
Mr O was in good  health  at the time of the sale.  
As the policy was for the sole benefit  of Mr O, Ill mainly be considering his circumstances 
from the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 1995 and      
Mr and Mrs O took out two further  advances  2002  and 2004  as well as the one in 2006, 
and is still running.  
Mr and Mrs Os representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Os representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs O 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                    
Mr and Mrs Os representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs O about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN00498392The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs O and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs O received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So, the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN00498393Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Os complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN00498394-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs O, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent                  
Mr and Mrs O suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs O 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs O know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs O say they were 
told they would get a better mortgage rate if they took the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage started in 1995  and two further advances were taken in 2002 and 
2004, before  the sale of the PPI policy with another further advance  in 2006. So, I think they 
knew they could  have the borrowing without  the PPI. Mr and Mrs O say they were told they 
would get a better mortgage rate if they took the PPI. Clearly, I cant know  what was said to 
Mr and Mrs O during  the meeting, but the documentary evidence Lloyds has been able to 
give us suggests  the policy was optional.  
Lloyds has been  able to give us a copy of the Payment Protection Plus Proposal  Form  which 
has been signed and dated by Mr and Mrs O. This was separate  from the mortgage  
application itself and Mr and Mrs O also completed a direct  debit bank  mandate  form in order  
for the monthly PPI premiums to be debited from their bank account. 
The Mortgage Loan Agreement, which was produced as a result of the mortgage and PPI 
application, and signed by Mr and Mr O at a later date, has a separate  section entitled 
Insurance with a sub-section entitled  Optional  Insurance and which  is followed by a brief 
description of the what the policy covered. So, while  I appreciate Mr and Mrs O say they 
were told at the meeting they would  get a better rate if they took the PPI, it is clear from the 
documents, and in particular the Mortgage  Loan Agreement, that the policy  was optional. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs O knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs O agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN00498395the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs O. It seems Mr and Mrs O cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Os financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr O would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr O had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs O given their circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs O, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr O met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs O had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Os ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if     
Mr O was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay 
and redundancy  benefits they say Mr O would  have  been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs O.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs O. 
There was nothing  about Mr Os employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr O be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before they could make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Os 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs O be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Ref: DRN00498396Mr O was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs O 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs O agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs O, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs O all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Os representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Os. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Os representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs O about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Os representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs O have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs O? To what extent did     
Mr and Mrs O suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to                  
Mr and Mrs O. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs O suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs O would have still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds done things 
properly. 
Ref: DRN00498397While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs O, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs O have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs O would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs O say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs O had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event      
Mr O was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Os circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs O applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs O would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs O would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs O would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Os 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs O thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any pre-existing medical condition  occurring or 
re-occurring during the first 24 months of the cover.  However,  a claim may have been 
Ref: DRN00498398accepted if Mr O had remained symptom free and had not consulted a doctor or 
received treatment for the condition for a full 24 months prior to his claim;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr O 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr O be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs O pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs O from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr O was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr O wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr O didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs O would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs O had known they could only claim for disability if Mr O was unable to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr O was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs O that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was most likely a longer period than Mr O would have  received  full sick pay 
for, and his statutory redundancy  entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs O would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr O be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr Os sick pay or redundancy money 
for other use.
Ref: DRN00498399Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs O would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr O was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs O would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Os representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs O would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs O found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs O believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs O in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs O compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs O think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
Ref: DRN004983910to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs O, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2006  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Os representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs O and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs O in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 August 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0049839