K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt  done  enough to help him manage his overdraft.
background
Mr T has an overdraft  with TSB.  He hasnt used the account regularly for several years,  but 
has continued to pay interest and charges on the overdraft. Mr T considers this is unfair. He 
thinks TSB couldve  done more to help him manage what  he owes, and that its charges have 
stopped him reducing the balance.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  that 
interest and charges had been applied  in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. 
He also found  that TSB had frozen interest  on a number of occasions  as a gesture  of 
goodwill when it became aware of the financial difficulty  Mr T was experiencing. 
The bank had also restricted  charges on the account in 2016,  and increased  Mr Ts overdraft 
limit to help him while he was off work sick. Overall, the adjudicator was satisfied that TSB 
had treated Mr T fairly.
Mr T didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusions so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that once  Mr T reached  his overdraft limit in 2014 he stopped  using his account  on 
a regular basis. But hes continued to pay interest and charges on the overdraft balance,  
which has stopped  him making any meaningful reduction to what  he owes. I can understand 
why Mr T might  consider  TSB couldve done  more to help him manage the overdraft.
As the adjudicator has explained, where  a bank is aware that a customer  is experiencing 
financial difficulty we would expect  it to treat the customer positively and sympathetically. But 
that doesnt necessarily  mean its required to freeze all interest and charges on an account.
The charges  were properly applied to Mr Ts account in line with its terms and conditions.  
But it seems  TSB waived interest  and charges on a number of occasions during 2014, 2015  
and 2016, after Mr T stopped  using the account  on a regular  basis. It also refunded some 
interest in November 2015.
In June 2016, the bank  also restricted charges on the account  so that Mr T only paid interest  
and the overdraft usage fee. So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that TSB did what it could 
to try to help Mr T. I consider that it treated him positively and sympathetically.
I appreciate that Mr T is unhappy that the banks charges have made it difficult for him to 
repay what he owes on the overdraft. But Mr T has managed  to maintain the account in line 
with its terms  and conditions. And that means its unlikely that any adverse information about  
the account has been recorded on his credit file. 
Ref: DRN08808382If, however,  Mr T continues to have difficulty covering the charges  and interest he may want  
to consider consulting  one of the debt charities  the adjudicator referred  to, for further advice.
From what  Ive seen and been  told Im not persuaded that Mr Ts complaint should be 
upheld.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0880838