K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained that Premier Insurance Company Limited didnt pay a fair 
market value when  Mrs A claimed  under  her car insurance policy.
background
Mrs A bought a car insurance policy  with Premier  in July 2017. Unfortunately  in July 2018 
she made a claim due to fire damage and her car was declared a total loss. 
Premier settled the claim by paying  the market value for Mrs As car minus the excess  in line 
with the policy.  
Mr and Mrs A were  unhappy with the amount Premier paid as they said it was too low. They  
said they couldnt find an equivalent  car to buy for the same  amount. 
Premier said it had acted correctly and so it didnt increase the valuation. So Mr and Mrs A 
asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend their complaint  should be upheld. She thought  Premier 
had reached its valuation reasonably  and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer has reached  its valuation in 
line with the policy  and in a fair and reasonable way. 
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We generally find the main  
motor trade  guides  are a reliable way to decide a valuation. They  provide average  values  
based on the likely selling  prices for a car of the same make, model,  mileage, age and 
condition. As there are four main motor trade guides available, we find that if an insurers 
valuation is within the range of the main  guides,  we usually think the insurer has acted 
reasonably. We find advertised  prices  are less reliable as they vary widely  and tend to be a 
starting point to negotiate a price downward.  
Mrs As policy says the most Premier  will pay in the event of a claim is the market  value 
which it defines as the cost, in the reasonable opinion  of an independent motor
engineer, of replacing Your  Car with a car of the same make, model and pre-loss  or damage
condition, specification, mileage and age.
Premier has provided a copy of the engineers report. The engineer  wasnt  able to see the 
actual mileage on Mrs As car. So he checked  the MOT history and found the mileage was 
recorded at 105,739 in July 2017   a year before. To value Mrs As car, he added  10,000  
miles for the year to the total mileage. This was broadly in line with the average mileage 
recorded for the two previous years according to the MOT history. So I think  this was a fair 
approach for Premier to take. 
Ref: DRN09202402However, this still meant that Mrs As car had travelled  significantly  more miles than the 
average for a car of its age. And so this had an effect on the engineers valuation.
Mr and Mrs A have  explained that Mrs As car had a number of extras which  they believe 
havent been taken into account. Our investigator  included the extras  in the valuations  she 
obtained through the four main motor  trade  guides. But this didnt show that the valuation 
Premier paid Mrs A was too low. The valuation Premier  relied on was the highest of the 
guides we checked against. 
I understand Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I think Premier reached its valuation in a reasonable  way and in line with the policy. 
So I dont  think it needs to increase it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0920240