K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M say Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M and Mrs M took out their mortgage in 2004.  At the same  time, they bought  a Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP is a packaged protection  plan and it consisted of 
three parts - Mortgage Repayments Cover (PPI), critical illness  and life cover.  They applied 
for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M and Mrs M for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. The policy provided a £750 monthly benefit which  
was split equally  50/50 between Mr M and Mrs M. It offered to repay £375 each a month 
towards Mr M and Mrs Ms mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, 
it cost £41.38 a month for both Mr M and Mrs M. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a train conductor. He has told us he was entitled  to at 
least six months sick pay. He also told us he had death in service benefit worth  twice his 
salary and redundancy pay. Mr M has said he had an operation for a broken  arm in 1987. 
There is nothing hes told us that makes me think he had any further time off work after the 
operation or suffered  with ongoing medical  problems because of his broken arm. 
Mrs M was employed as a bar supervisor. She has told us she was entitled to full sick pay 
and redundancy  pay but she hasnt said she had any other means  to fall back on if she had 
long periods off work due to accident or sickness. Mrs M has said she suffered with asthma 
in 1987 for which  she took medication. She hasnt said this was ongoing  or that she had 
taken prolonged  periods off work because of it. She also told us about  whiplash in 1996 for 
which she had to visit the doctor and had some treatment for neck  pain. Again, nothing  she 
has said about the whiplash leads me to think it was an ongoing problem or she had taken a 
long time off work  because of it. Mrs M was also pregnant at the time she took out the policy.
 Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006. 
Halifax has also confirmed that the PPI policy continued after this mortgage  came to an end. 
Halifax has told us that in 2006  Mr M and Mrs M moved mortgage lenders and they 
confirmed they wanted to keep the policy to cover  the new mortgage,  making  a few changes 
to the policy  to make sure the cover  was correct. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr M and Mrs Ms representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr M and 
Mrs Ms representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN02910352The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr M and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and Mrs 
M and the impact  they would have had on their chances of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr M and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr M and Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
Ref: DRN02910353s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr M and 
Mrs Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN02910354Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr M and Mrs M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M 
and Mrs M, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr M and 
Mrs M suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and Mrs M 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr M and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Not all the paperwork from the time is available. However, Ive been provided with a copy of 
the key facts illustration  which has a section headed  Insurance.  Underneath there  is a 
section which asks whether the customer requires mortgage insurance.  The paperwork 
shows that Mr M and Mrs M did require insurance  and a quote number was set out on the 
form. I think its likely that paperwork  was completed following a conversation with Mr M and 
Mrs M in which they confirmed they wanted insurance cover. To think otherwise  Id have to 
say that the adviser completed yes to them wanting insurance on the form without  their 
permission, and I dont  think thats likely. I also think following any discussion they would 
more likely have received a quote for the PPI. So, if they hadnt wanted the cover or had 
changed their mind they could have done so. Taking  everything  into account, I think  its more 
likely that Mr M and Mrs M knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr M and Mrs M recall being  sold the policy during a meeting but have told us no advice was 
given to them. Halifax says that advice was provided during this sale. I will look at this sale 
as if advice was provided  as this put more  responsibility on Halifax  for how it sold the policy.
 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr M and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN02910355I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M and Mrs M. It seems  Mr M and Mrs M cant remember  clearly 
what happened and there is no full record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the 
policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some 
limited information about  Mr M and Mrs Ms financial circumstances, and I can see some  
general questions  were asked including whether they knew  of any impending  unemployment 
or whether they had seen  a doctor  in the last 12 months or been diagnosed with any medical 
condition this is shown on a screenshot provided  by Halifax.  The questions appear  to be 
quite general and didnt go into any detail. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M and Mrs M given  their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M and Mrs M met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr M and Mrs M had a need  for the policy  it seems likely  that Mr M and Mrs Ms 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if Mr M and Mrs M were not working for an extended  period of time  even 
allowing for the sick pay benefits and redundancy pay they say they would have been 
entitled to. Both Mr M and Mrs M told us they would  have received  full sick pay if they 
were off work through  accident or sickness, but this policy  would have paid out in 
addition to and likely  for longer than the sick pay lasted. It would also have paid out 
as well as any redundancy pay they got if they lost their jobs.  So, it would have 
meant they could  have used it for any other important living costs. Any death in 
service Mr M got is not the same thing  as the PPI policy  and would only have paid 
out in the unfortunate  event of death  not if Mr M couldnt work or lost his job. So, I still 
think the policy was suitable. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr M and Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr M and Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Mr M and Mrs M have told us about Mr Ms 
broken arm and Mrs Ms asthma and whiplash. But these  happened  many years 
before the sale, were  likely treated at the time, and there is no evidence  they caused  
recurring problems  or that either Mr M or Mrs M had to take long periods off work 
because of them. Mrs M was also pregnant, but this doesnt appear to be caught by 
the policy limitations and exclusions.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
job condition, the requirement that Mr M and Mrs M be disabled or unemployed  for 
30 days before they could  make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr M and Mrs Ms circumstances,  including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
Ref: DRN02910356the policys 30-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr M and Mrs M be unable to make 
the repayments on loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M and Mrs M were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M and Mrs M were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr M and 
Mrs M would  have  taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr M and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M and Mrs M Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr M and Mrs M all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr M and Mrs Ms representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr M and 
Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr M and Mrs Ms representative  considers  to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN02910357Im not persuaded by Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr M and Mrs M have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr M and Mrs M? To what extent  did 
Mr M and Mrs M suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M and 
Mrs M. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr M and Mrs M suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr M and Mrs M would  have still taken out the policy, had Halifax  done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M and Mrs M have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Halifax had explained things  
properly, Mr M and Mrs M would have acted differently,  or whether they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mr M and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr M and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M and Mrs M knew  they would  have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium  at the point 
Mr M and Mrs M applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr M and Mrs M 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
Ref: DRN02910358couple of years, so if the costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M and Mrs M would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr M and Mrs M would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr M and 
Mrs Ms expectations about what the policy  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions which had been  diagnosed 
by, or for which treatment and/or advice has been suggested by, a registered  medical  
practitioner during  the 12 month  period before the start date which recurs within 12 
months of the start date; or a condition whether diagnosed or not for which significant 
and substantive symptoms were  experienced or for which  investigations have been 
commenced by a registered  practitioner  during the 12 month period before the start 
date which recurs  within  12 months  of the start date; or a chronic condition or 
continuing disease that Mr M and Mrs M were aware of at the start date which recurs 
within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M and 
Mrs M werent  permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M and Mrs M be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M and Mrs M pause for thought   and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr M and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr M says he had a broken 
arm in 1987 when he was a child theres nothing hes said to make me think  that caused an 
Ref: DRN02910359ongoing problem.  Mrs M has told us about asthma  she had in 1987  again when she was a 
child. She says this was treated with medication but theres nothing  to make  me think it was 
something she had to take prolonged periods  off work for and her whiplash was treated in 
1996 at the time. So as Ive said above,  I dont think this would have been something  she 
would have thought she had to take time off for. Mrs M was also pregnant at the time of the 
sale. But I dont think this policy would  have excluded  any claims because Mrs Ms normal  
pregnancy, So, I dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put them  off 
agreeing to it. And I havent seen any evidence  to suggest they wouldve been caught  by 
any of the other significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take 
the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M and 
Mrs M might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr M and Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mr M and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr M and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if they were  not only unable 
to do their job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view they 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr M and 
Mrs Ms circumstances , on balance, I still think they would have been interested in taking out 
the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr M and Mrs M that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 24 months  was a longer period than Mr M and Mrs M would have received full sick pay 
for and their statutory redundancy  entitlement  was also significantly less than 24 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M and Mrs M would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr M and Mrs M be unable  to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, 
it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr M and Mrs Ms sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M and Mrs M would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M and Mrs M were  made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr M and Mrs M would have  taken  out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN029103510That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M and Mrs M would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr M and Mrs 
Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
and Mrs M found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr M and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M and Mrs M in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr M and Mrs M compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M and Mrs M think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs M, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr M and Mrs Ms representative says a court might 
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and Mrs M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN029103511my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 June  2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0291035