K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank PLC told him his security number had been compromised but it 
wouldnt give him any more information.
background
Mr D says when he phones Lloyds  he cant use the automated telephone service (IVR) and 
has to bypass the system  by using 00. And when he gets through to an advisor he gives  
his Personal Security  Number  (PSN).  
On this occasion he did what he normally does but when he spoke to an adviser she asked 
him for certain security information  but didnt ask him for his number. The advisor said itd 
been compromised  but couldnt say why this had happened.  Lloyds wasnt  able to unblock  it 
and it said it could only order  him a new one. But Mr D didnt want this. He wanted the same 
number.
Lloyds said it appeared there was a problem  with the information hed given at the beginning 
of the call but it couldnt give him any further explanation. 
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had been unreasonable or unfair.  She said it wasnt  clear 
why his security number had been compromised. But she was satisfied Lloyds  had acted in 
his best interests  to keep his account  secure.  And so although this has caused him some 
inconvenience there hasnt been any financial loss.  
Mr D wasnt happy with this. Hes upset  because Lloyds is blaming him for something he 
didnt do. And he didnt  think  Lloyds had sent us all its evidence.  This is causing him a lot of 
hassle. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Im satisfied I have sufficient 
evidence from both parties to come  to my decision. 
Lloyds cant say why Mr Ds PSN was compromised.  And for security  reasons it seems it 
doesnt keep an audit trail. It says this situation  may have happened after Mr D phoned in 
and had to bypass the automated telephone service. But I dont think  it was blaming him for 
this. It was just try to help him understand why his number might have been compromised.
Lloyds, in line with other  banks,  has rigorous  security measures in place to protect its 
customers. Sometimes those security  measures can cause inconvenience. And that is 
whats happened to Mr D. But that doesnt  mean those measures are unfair or 
unreasonable. And Mr D has confirmed  he hasnt suffered any financial loss. Lloyds has 
offered to order Mr D a new number. I can understand why he would prefer  to keep his old 
number but I cant  fairly  ask it to do that.
I know Mr D will be disappointed with my decision but I dont think  Lloyds has done anything 
wrong.
Ref: DRN04224022my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0422402