K822xcomplaint
Ms B says Gain  Credit  LLC trading  as Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to her.
background 
This complaint is about seven loans Lending Stream provided to Ms B between  
January 2017  and August  2018.  Ms Bs borrowing history is set out on the table below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
Amount
1 05/01/2017 23/06/2017 6 £400.00 £179.20
2 29/03/2017 22/09/2017 6 £560.00 £376.32
3 25/05/2017 26/09/2017 6 £310.00 £397.22
4 28/10/2017 13/04/2018 6 £990.00 £427.68
5 06/02/2018 13/04/2018 6 £400.00 £456.08
6 09/07/2018 29/08/2018 6 £600.00 £268.80
7 26/08/2018 29/08/2018 6 £560.00 £415.39
Ms B says she could  not afford to repay  the loans she took out given her income and her 
other credit commitments. Lending  Stream continued to allow her to borrow more and more 
and the only way she could repay her loans was to continue borrowing. She has told us that 
all her income was being used to repay  her loans, leaving her with no money for food and 
she says she felt trapped.
In its final response,  Lending Stream told Ms B all necessary  checks  were completed at the 
time of her applications  and each of her loans were approved only once it had cleared her 
affordability analysis.  It did not uphold her complaint.
Our adjudicator thought loan 6 and 7 shouldnt have  been  given. She said that by loan 6 
Ms Bs overall pattern  of borrowing  suggested she had become persistently  reliant  on short  
term loans, and that repayment of these loans was unsustainable. She asked Lending 
Stream to put things right for loans 6 and 7. Lending  Stream agreed with our adjudicators  
view and said it would refund the interest and charges for loans 6 and 7. Ms B accepted  the 
view in relation to loans 6 and 7 but she did not agree that the other  loans should not be 
upheld.
She said that loans  were  taken in close proximity to each other and some were  still 
outstanding when she took out her next borrowing. If Lending Stream  had considered the 
timing when she requested new loans, this should  have showed  she was persistently  reliant  
on the loans and her situation was becoming unsustainable  after the first loan was taken. 
She has told us that the lender should not have continued lending  after the first loan and her 
borrowing increased loan by loan and she was trapped in debt and had to keep up the 
borrowing to make the repayments.  
As the parties are not in agreement and Ms B asked  for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint particularly for loans 4 and 5, the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN06400722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Ms B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Ms B could sustainably repay  her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Ms B but Ive 
decided to agree with our adjudicators view that loans 6 and 7 should be upheld.  I will 
explain why.
In the early stages of the lending relationship, Lending Stream needed to do proportionate  
checks. So on the income Ms B had stated and her expenditure I dont think  it needed  to do 
Ref: DRN06400723any more checks than it did for loans 1 and 2. And based on what  Ms B had told it I think  the 
loans would have  appeared  affordable.
When it gave loan 3 Lending Stream could have done more about  looking into Ms Bs 
financial circumstances for this loan, for example it could  have  asked to see if she had other  
short term loans outstanding. And I can see she still had loans 1 and 2 outstanding but 
overall the amount she had to repay and the income  and expenditure she had declared 
didnt make the loan seem unaffordable.  And Ive seen nothing  else about  Ms Bs 
circumstances which might have  alerted Lending  Stream to the fact that this loan was 
unsustainable or unaffordable.
When Ms B took out loan 4, she borrowed  more  than she had done  before. Based on what 
the business saw I think  the loans would have appeared affordable but given the way these 
loans were being used and the amounts being  borrowed further checks should again have 
been carried out. But Ms B had repaid her previous loans around  one month before taking 
out this loan. All in all, the overall amount she had to repay would not have  appeared 
unaffordable compared with her declared  income  and her expenditure for loan 4 or for loan 
5. 
In addition, I cant say it was unfair for Lending  Stream to give these loans as Ive seen 
nothing else about  Ms Bs financial circumstances which might have indicated Ms B was 
having difficulty managing money or that the loans were becoming unsustainable.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Lending Streams  lending history with Ms B, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream  should  reasonably  have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  And so Lending Stream  should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Lending Stream ought to have realised Ms B was not managing to repay 
her loans  sustainably.  Ms B had taken out six loans within nineteen  months and Ms B 
had been indebted  to Lending Stream for the whole time save for few short  periods in 
between loan 3 and 4 of around  one month and between loan 5 and 6 of nearly three 
months. So Lending Stream ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Ms B 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Ms Bs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Ms Bs first loan was for £400  and loan 6 was for £600. At this point Lending Stream 
ought to have known that Ms B was not likely  borrowing  to meet  a temporary  shortfall 
in their income but to meet an ongoing  need.  
Ms B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Lending Stream.  Loan 
7 was taken out almost  20 months after Ms Bs first. And it was for a larger  amount. 
Ms B had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Lending 
Stream over an extended period.
I think that Ms B lost out because Lending  Stream continued to provide borrowing from loan 
6 onwards because:
Ref: DRN06400724these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Ms B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Ms Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 6 and 7 and Lending Stream  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms B paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Ms Bs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Bs complaint.  Gain  Credit LLC 
should pay Ms B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020. 
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0640072