K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr S has said the borrowing was unaffordable and prevented  him from meeting his 
essential living expenses. 
background
This complaint is about four short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr S between 
August and October 2016. Mr Ss borrowing  history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount
1 20/08/2016 02/01/2017 Instalment £250.00
2 29/09/2016 02/01/2017 Instalment £300.00
3 15/10/2016 02/01/2017 Instalment £200.00
4 21/10/2016 29/12/2016 Instalment £150.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint  and thought  loan four shouldnt have been 
given. 
Sunny disagreed but did make an offer of redress for loan four. It wasnt in-line with what we 
would expect, but we put it to Mr S. Mr S didnt reply.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me in my role as ombudsman to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN04121142the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr S had with Sunny.  So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to partially  
uphold Mr Ss complaint  as I dont think loan four should have been given. Ill explain why.
When Mr S applied  for loan four, he had three loans already  outstanding  with Sunny. Sunny 
has told us its product allows for consumers to take up to four loans  at the same time 
provided the total borrowed is within the maximum credit limit it allows for any particular 
consumer. But I think Mr Ss borrowing  suggested  that he was having problems managing 
his money.
I say this because  Mr S had taken  one loan in August, another just over one month later for 
a larger  amount and the third loan just over two weeks  after that. When  he came back for 
further borrowing  at loan four, it was only six days after he had taken loan three,  so two 
loans in the same month. And his total borrowing in that month would bring  the monthly total 
up to £350, so a steady  monthly increase from the borrowing  of £250 at loan one. This 
borrowing pattern  could be a suggestion  that the lending  was becoming, or was 
unsustainable for Mr S.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan four and Sunny should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan four;
Ref: DRN04121143pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan four from Mr Ss credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0412114