K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2009 with a joint 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr C if he couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Im not going  to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs C say they were given the impression they had to buy the PPI, and that RBS 
didnt give them a proper  choice. They also say that the policy was sold over the phone.
Ive noted everything  Mr and Mrs C have said, and Ive also considered the documentary 
evidence that RBS has provided.
It seems  an application form was completed for Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage. Its possible the 
details were taken from Mr and Mrs C over the phone, and the form was then sent to them  to 
sign. The copy Ive seen  includes a section headed Your protection  which  refers  to PPI. 
The relevant  section includes Mr Cs details, although Mr and Mrs C have said their copy  
indicates they initialled to show that they didnt want the cover.
I think its likely that once  RBS received Mr and Mrs Cs application there  was another  
discussion about PPI. I say this because Mr and Mrs C later completed a PPI application 
form that was separate to their mortgage  application.
During the course of the application process, Mr and Mrs C sent identification  documents to 
RBS. Their covering  letter  said:
We are aware that the revised monthly mortgage payment will be [£X]. We have amended 
the monthly amount to be protected on the mortgage loanguard insurance  to [£X] to reflect  
this increase.
I note that the PPI is also listed  in Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  offer as Optional  insurance that 
you do not have  to take out through The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. And Ive seen nothing 
Ref: DRN03159362in the documentation to suggest that Mr and Mrs C had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage 
they wanted.
Without further evidence to support  what Mr and Mrs C have told me, I dont  think it would be 
fair or reasonable  for me to say that RBS didnt make them  aware that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI.
The cost of the policy was set out in Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage offer,  and I understand they 
paid a little more per month than was quoted. So I accept that the price they paid wasnt  
strictly in line with what theyd been quoted. But the policy was competitively priced  and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made  a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been  provided.
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr C didnt satisfy  the eligibility requirements of the policy  
when taking it out. And his circumstances dont suggest he would have been caught by any 
conditions limiting the policys main benefits,  such as those  affecting  self-employed people 
or people  with pre-existing medical conditions.
RBS didnt recommend  the policy to Mr and Mrs C, so it didnt have to check whether it was 
suitable for Mr C. That means  it didnt  have to ask about any alternative means Mr and Mrs 
C may have  had to cover  their mortgage repayments.
Mr and Mrs C have mentioned that they continued to pay for the insurance after their 
mortgage with RBS had finished. Theyve helpfully provided copies of their bank statements 
that show the continued direct debit payments.
Ive looked at the direct debit instruction that Mr and Mrs C completed when the insurance 
was arranged. The third party  recipient  theyve  referred to was the underwriter for the PPI 
policy, rather than the mortgage lender. 
Mr and Mrs Cs PPI payments were separate to their mortgage repayments.  That means 
when their mortgage ended, if they no longer wanted the policy they wouldve had to cancel 
the PPI direct debit  instruction. 
As such,  I dont find that the continued  direct debit payments meant the PPI policy  was mis-
sold. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold so I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0315936