K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs R say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs R case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs R say they were told they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage. But they 
completed and signed  a separate  PPI application  form to say they wanted the PPI. And 
the mortgage offer issued by YBS says theyve chosen to take out the insurance.  This all 
suggests Mr and Mrs R knew they didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this.  
Although YBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, the information 
available suggests it did  in its final response  letter YBS talks about how it only 
recommended Mr and Mrs R take out accident  and sickness  cover but they decided to 
have accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover. So YBS had to check the PPI was 
right for Mr and Mrs R. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  
it was.
Neither Mr or Mrs R were affected  by any of the limitations to or limits on the PPI cover   
they were both in full time, permanent employment and from what  theyve said they were 
both in good health.
I think Mr and Mrs R had a need for the cover that was recommended to them. Although 
they both would have received generous sick pay from their employer, I think  its unlikely 
they would  have received full pay if they were off sick for 12 months.  So if one of them 
couldnt work for an extended period of time, they might  have found a policy that would 
at least cover part of the mortgage repayment  useful. And as Ive already explained, 
Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the unemployment  cover  as well, even though YBS 
didnt recommend this to them. So it seems  they thought  this cover would also be useful.  
Its possible  the information YBS gave  Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type 
of cover.  As Ive said, it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
Ref: DRN06701462But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, YBS has offered  to pay back the amount  of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs R any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs R the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs R 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0670146