K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains delays by Prudential  Assurance  Company Limited  resulted in a fall in the 
value of his pension savings held with another provider.
background
Mr H had some pension  savings invested  in a global fund with another  provider Ill call A. 
In August  2018  Mr H and his wife met with a Prudential advisor to discuss transferring his 
savings from A, (valued  at the time around  £59,700) to Prudential so they could be 
consolidated with the two Prudential pension policies he already had. He wanted  to use the 
total funds to purchase an annuity as he intended  to retire after his 65th birthday that 
December.
Ahead of the meeting  Mr H and his wife, a book-keeper, had done some  research,  and had 
obtained open market quotes  for annuities for each of his pensions. Mr H needed monthly 
income of about  £1,000, including his state  pension of just over £600. The advisor  was 
concerned that taking  no tax-free cash and using all his funds to purchase an annuity  
provided little flexibility  for the future. He assessed  Mr H as a medium risk investor and 
thought he should consider flexi-access drawdown,  as his funds would still have capacity for 
growth. But if he was settled on taking an annuity, a joint life annuity  with 100% spouse 
benefit, level income with a ten-year guarantee would provide better protection for Mr Hs 
family. He left Mr H some  information to consider and suggested another meeting. 
Due to a family bereavement the advisor  wasnt available until October 2018. By which time 
the value of Mr Hs two policies with Prudential  had risen, and his savings with A had grown  
by almost £1,000.  Further  meetings took place in December 2018. Taking on board some  of 
what the advisor said, Mr H decided to purchase an annuity with one Prudential  policy, with 
the remainder into flexi-access drawdown. Unfortunately, by this time his savings with A had 
fallen by around £4,000, which Mr H feels could  have  been avoided had Prudential  actioned 
the transfer more  quickly.  Mr H also disclosed some health conditions  which  may have 
affected his annuity. The transfer was eventually completed in January 2019, after Mr H had 
retired. Mr H thinks Prudential should  compensate him for his loss, so he complained. 
Despite the unforeseen reason, Prudential thought the follow up meeting  should have been 
arranged sooner, so offered £150 for this. But as they didnt have Mr Hs signed instructions 
until December 2018 the transfer couldnt  have happened sooner. Unhappy, Mr H brought  
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and thought Prudential had acted fairly. He 
pointed out Prudentials advisor  was only responsible for advising on its own products, not 
the investment  strategy of Mr Hs savings with A. And as Mr H wanted to take an annuity  
which the advisor didnt think  was in his best interests, he had to secure  a concession to 
continue advising him, which  caused  the delay. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H said hed given clear  instructions in August  2018 that he intended to transfer his 
savings from A to Prudential to purchase  an annuity. And even if the advisor  had to get a 
concession, he should have given Mr H the forms to sign before December. Had he done so 
the funds could have been  transferred before  they lost so much. As agreement couldnt  be 
reached its come to me to make a decision.  
Ref: DRN06876062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Im not going to uphold  
it. Let me explain why. 
Firstly I should say Ive clarified  with Prudential that they intend responding to Mr H 
separately in relation  to his entitlement to an enhanced annuity due to his health conditions. 
So I wont  be commenting on that point in this decision.  
Its not in dispute  that Mr H was thinking  about  transferring his pension savings from A to 
Prudential in August  2018, the transfer  instructions were given in December 2018 and it 
actually completed  in January 2019. During  that time Mr Hs savings with A initially gained  
value, and then fell, as they were invested  with exposure to the stock  market. But for me to 
say Prudential should compensate Mr H for his loss, Id have  to think  Prudential  caused 
unreasonable delays, but for which the loss wouldnt have occurred.
I can see why Mr H thinks the Prudential  advisor  should have given  him the relevant forms to 
sign in the initial meeting  in August 2018. As far as Mr H was concerned,  hed made his 
mind up so didnt need  Prudential to give him advice, just implement his instructions. 
Transferring the funds from A at this point would  have been before they lost value.  But I think 
this is with the benefit of hindsight. Based on his wifes research Mr H had decided to use all 
his pension funds  to purchase  an annuity, with no tax-free cash.  But having listened to the 
advisor, he decided  to only use one policy to purchase an annuity and put his remaining 
funds into flexi-access drawdown.  Making an uninformed decision with his pension savings 
could have significant tax and other implications for Mr H and his family and would usually 
be irrevocable. A financial advisor  is professionally obliged  to act in their clients best 
interest. While  Mr H was a relatively experienced investor with a medium  attitude to risk, 
hed only considered one option for his retirement  income. So I think the advisor would have  
fallen short had he simply followed Mr Hs instructions. 
At the October 2018 meeting the advisor  discussed  options with Mr H which  aimed to 
provide him with slightly more income  than he needed, while his funds remained invested  
with the potential for growth. According  to the advisors  notes, Mr H was open  to the idea, 
but his wife still thought  he should go for an annuity  and take no tax-free  cash to maximise 
the annuity return. The notes suggest  there was some debate  between  Mr and Mrs H during 
the meeting. Obviously,  I cant be sure what took place as I wasnt  present, but I give weight 
to the advisors  notes  made at the time. The advisor told Mr H if he wanted to proceed 
against his advice, hed need  to obtain  a concession. While this caused a delay, I think the 
advisor was acting in Mr Hs best interests.  
Its important for me to clarify  that an adviser  is not under a regulatory obligation to transact 
business for an insistent  client   so its up to them (or the processes that may be in place 
with that business) how they might be willing to facilitate this. And some of the delay  was 
while Mr H thought carefully about his options,  as the advisor had suggested alternatives he 
hadnt previously  considered.  There was no financial detriment to Mr H at this point as his 
savings with A had gained  almost  £1,000 since August 2018.  
At this meeting Mr H signed a form authorising the advisor to obtain  information from A in 
order to prepare  a drawdown analysis  prior to the funds being transferred. Mr H says he 
thought this form also authorised the transfer  itself. But Ive seen a copy  of the one-page 
form which reads I hereby authorise  Prudential Financial  Planning  to gain information  
Ref: DRN06876063relating to my policy/policies  mentioned  below  and then the advisor  has hand written the 
name of the company A and the policy number.  So I dont think  this gives  the impression 
the funds would be transferred on the strength of that form.  Its purpose  was to get the 
information the advisor needed to help Mr H make  the right decision. Mr H could have  been  
asked to sign the authorisation form at the initial meeting. But I dont think much time would 
have been saved, as the advice concession was always  going  to have been required if he 
wanted to proceed  against the advice.
The Prudential advisor says at this point  all he knew about Mr Hs savings with A was the 
balance. Mr H says hed given the advisor  a statement. On balance  I think its unlikely the 
advisor was aware  of the fund, as later when he became aware of its volatility rating,  he 
mentioned it to Mr H. With a statement he might have done that sooner. But Mr H knew  
which fund he was in, and if he was worried about volatility or potential losses,  he could have 
raised this with the advisor or with A. 
The advisor next called Mr H on 25 November 2018.  I dont think  taking a month to obtain  
the information from A and produce  the report is unreasonable. The advisor  explained hed 
been running some options through Prudentials modelling software to obtain  the optimal 
level of income, security and flexibility which hed like to discuss with Mr H, so he could 
make his final decision.  So another meeting took place on 3 December 2018, only a couple 
of days before Mr Hs 65th birthday. The meeting notes suggest Mrs H still favoured using Mr 
Hs entire pension  to purchase  an annuity,  whereas Mr H seemed open  to full drawdown.  As 
a compromise, he decided to purchase  an annuity  with his smaller Prudential  fund, and use 
flexi-access drawdown for the rest. So although  Mr H was hoping  everything would be in 
place before he retired, the option he chose still required  the advice concession.
According to the advisors notes, it was while going through  the drawdown  analysis  they 
noticed the drop in value of the savings with A. So he looked up As global fund on his tablet 
and saw its high volatility rating of 124 (he expected a medium risk fund to be around 50), 
due to its exposure to international equities. He told Mr H policyholders  often think about de-
risking investments to some degree  as retirement  approaches.  He explained Mr H could 
instruct A to switch into a lower risk fund, but as he represented Prudential he couldnt do 
that for him. I understand Mr H contacted  A soon afterwards, yet the value of his investment 
continued to fall until the transfer was completed, which suggests they remained in a volatile 
fund. I cant hold Prudential responsible  for that.
The advice concession  was approved  on 13 December 2018, and the advisor  obtained an 
annuity quote on 17 December 2018  which was valid for a month.  At this point Mr Hs 
savings with Prudential  had all gained value. And on 18 December Mr H signed  the 
drawdown paperwork which enabled  the transfer to take place.
Overall, I think its likely Mr H knew he was invested  in a higher-risk fund with A. Until that 
point it had performed  well, having  grown by 50% since 2015, and made  almost  £1,000  
between August and October 2018.  Its unfortunate  the value fell significantly in the period  
while the transfer was being  arranged, but I cant hold Prudential  responsible  for that. And as 
the majority of M Hs pension savings remain invested, they have the potential for growth, 
which would have been lost if hed put everything into an annuity. That in effect means  that 
there was less of a potential need to de-risk  all the funds with A, because as Mr H later 
decided to put some of his funds into drawdown, he was going to remain invested,  rather  
than making an irreversible decision to commit  them  to an annuity. 
Ref: DRN06876064The avoidable delay  between August and October  2018 didnt  cause any financial detriment 
to Mr H because the advice process  hadnt completed, and it wasnt  yet clear  what  his 
decision would be. And Prudential has offered £175  for the inconvenience the delay caused 
which I think is fair. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0687606