K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr and Mrs H used to hold with Lloyds  Bank PLC. They  
stopped paying the mortgage shortly  before  the house was sold and the mortgage fully 
repaid. This has resulted  in missed payment markers being recorded on their credit  files. 
They say no one at Lloyds told them their credit files would be affected.
background
Mr and Mrs H had held the mortgage jointly for around ten years.  Sadly, their relationship 
ended last year and they put their house up for sale.  They wanted to live separately 
immediately, but couldnt afford the cost of two properties. With the sale imminent, Mrs H 
spoke to Lloyds  and was told it would be ok to miss payments for up to 90 days  before 
the sale went through. She had another  conversation with the bank a few days later, during 
which she was told the missed payments would be regarded as arrears
Mr and Mr H stopped  paying, and after the sale went through, found that the bank had 
recorded missed payments on their credit files. Lloyds offered £150 compensation for not 
having been clear in the first conversation but pointed  out that it had told them any missed  
payments would be treated as arrears before the payments stopped.
Mrs H referred  the complaint to us, but our adjudicator didnt  recommend  it be upheld. Mrs H 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. I initially asked for further  
information, and for Mr H to join the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The broad principle is as follows;  lenders have an obligation to report  what  has happened on 
a mortgage account accurately and factually;  they cant provide context. So if a payment is 
missed, that has to be reported.  If its later revealed that the sole or predominant reason for 
the payment being missed was a mistake the business  made, then wed expect  the business 
to remove the entry  (provided also that the payment  has subsequently been made).
Applying that broad principle here, the question for me to address  is whether Mr and Mr H 
stopped paying their mortgage early because  of something Lloyd said (or didnt say) that 
gave them the mistaken impression they could do so without any adverse impact on their 
credit file. Thats the crux of the issue, and what the outcome of the complaint turns on, so 
Ive given it a great deal of consideration.
It appears to be common ground that Lloyds gave Mrs H the wrong  impression during her 
first conversation with it, on 18 July 2018,  and that does seem to have informed the 
decisions she and Mr H made  thereafter. If that had been the only information Lloyds 
provided, it may well have had a case to answer;  but there was another  conversation,  nine 
days later.  
At this stage, no payments had been missed, and thats crucial because  in that second 
conversation, Im satisfied  Lloyds  correctly informed Mrs H that any missed  payments would 
be treated as arrears.  Yet Mr and Mrs H seem to have  taken  their next steps as though  that 
second conversation  hadnt happened.
Ref: DRN04113612The key question we typically ask consumers in a situation  like this is: what would you have 
done differently  if the business  hadnt  misled you? I dont need to do that here, because in 
the second conversation, the bank  corrected the wrong impression  it had given in the first 
conversation. Once Mr and Mrs H stopped making their mortgage payments, Lloyds had no 
option but to record missed  payment  markers  on their credit  files, and theres no reason for it 
now to remove those  markers. 
Ive seen Mrs Hs credit file, so can tell that the missed payment markers have had a 
detrimental effect. I cant say whether the same is true for Mr Hs credit  file, because despite  
some persistence on the adjudicators part (at my insistence) he hasnt  provided  it. That 
means I cant rule out the possibility that the markers added by Lloyds havent  really made a 
material difference to his overall credit profile.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0411361