K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs M complain  that they were  mis-sold  a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by Midland Bank, HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) are now 
responsible for this complaint so the complaint has been set up against them.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to HSBC in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  mortgage  PPI policy  taken out in Mr C and Mrs 
Ms joint names in 1993. 
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  if Mr C and/or Mrs M were  off work sick or 
lost their jobs. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr C and Mrs Ms complaint should  be upheld. Mr C and Mrs M 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr C and Mrs Ms complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr C and Mrs M were eligible  for the policy. Given Mr C 
and Mrs Ms age, employment and residence  at the time of the sale. I think  they would have 
been eligible under  the policy.
HSBC had to make  it clear to Mr C and Mrs M that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  
HSBC no longer have  a copy of the PPI application form so I cant see how PPI was 
presented at the time of the sale. However, this is understandable  given the length of time 
since the sale. I also dont  have strong  evidence of what happened during the sale from Mr 
C and Mrs M. Again  this is understandable.  From what I understand Mr C and Mrs M already 
had the mortgage without  PPI for a number of years and also PPI would have appeared as a 
separate transaction on their statements.   So based  on the very limited information  available 
to me,  I cant say its more likely that Mr C and Mrs M would have  thought the PPI was 
compulsory or that it was  added without their knowledge. 
HSBC accept they advised  Mr C and Mrs M to take out the policy. This means they had to 
take adequate steps to ensure it was suitable  for them.  I dont know whether they took all the 
steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr C and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time, I think it was suitable for them. I say this because:
Ref: DRN08895392The policy was in joint names and would have  enabled  Mr C and Mrs M to meet  an 
important financial commitment had they needed to rely on it and would have  done  so 
for 12 months at any one time.  And it would have paid in addition to their existing 
employee benefits.
Mr C and Mrs M dont  appear to have been  affected by what would likely have been 
the main exclusions  and restrictions in the policy.
The PPI appears to have been  affordable to Mr C and Mrs M at the time of the sale. 
Mr C and Mrs M could have  cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable  for Mr C and Mrs M, HSBC also had to give 
them clear enough information so that they could  make an informed decision as to whether 
or not to take it out, in particular about  the costs, benefits and main  exclusions under the 
policy.
I dont know  if HSBC  did give Mr C and Mrs M all of the information as they should  have. But 
this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would  have  put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better  information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Ms complaint  against  HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0889539