K822xcomplaint
Ms K complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc lost forms she had sent it containing  personal  
information. She also complains about  its customer service. 
background 
In November 2017 Ms K moved abroad  to a country I will refer to as B. Shes had an 
account with HSBC since 2013. Ms K said shes used her local branch often, including email 
telephone and face to face contact with the relationship  manager  of the branch. 
Ms K said after she notified HSBC  of her change of address she received a personal 
information form and a Common Standard Reporting (CSR) form to complete. The CSR form 
is used to identify  tax residency status.  Ms K said she sent both forms back in a prepaid 
international envelope. Ms K said she also has a UK account  with another  bank, Ill refer to 
as N, and received  and completed the same forms, returning them  also in the prepaid 
international envelope. 
Ms K said she emailed her UK branch to say it may take a while for the forms to arrive 
especially around Christmas. She said she took a photo of the front of both the HSBC  and 
Ns envelopes before  sending  them and wrote her name and address on the back of the 
envelopes. 
HSBC sent her a pack containing the same  documents,  requesting  her to complete them two 
weeks after she sent the original forms back.  She contacted HSBC to confirm shed already 
sent the documents off and received  an acknowledgement from the HSBC messaging  
service that it would flag this internally. On 4 January Ms K received a letter dated 19 
December saying HSBC  would limit cash withdrawals to £50 if the forms were  not received 
within 14 days. 
Ms K called  the bank. But it said it couldnt do anything because the documents  hadnt  been 
received. The operator instructed Ms K to go to a local branch in B but Ms K said there 
werent any so she was told to return to the UK to visit a branch. Ms K also queried  the legal 
basis for restricting her cash withdrawal. Ms K visited the UK and was able to visit with her 
previously local branch where she showed the manager the scanned forms, completed new 
ones and queried how it was possible her first forms hadnt arrived. Soon after her visit she 
received a call from HSBC asking her to confirm her tax identification  number for her new 
country of residence. Ms K was unhappy  with the process and didnt understand why this 
was needed after she had completed  the forms so she complained to HSBC. 
She said the letter to bank  N had been received and the post office had confirmed to her that 
a letter  with her address  on the back would have been returned to sender so she expected 
that the forms had arrived  at HSBC. Ms K says the fact the forms are lost has caused her a 
lot of anxiety because of the level of personal detail on them.  She feels  vulnerable to identify 
theft. She also complained about the legality of putting restrictions on her account.  
HSBC said there was no way to determine  how the forms went missing.  It said no 
restrictions had been placed on her account in the end but it had had every right to do so as 
per the terms and conditions. It also said it didnt consider  £1,000 to be appropriate but 
offered Ms K £100 for the distress and frustration caused by the safeguard  service.  
Ref: DRN03419672Ms K remained dissatisfied  and brought her complaint to this service. She was unhappy with 
the service she received  and that HSBC  keep sending her forms to complete despite now 
having done so. She wanted HSBCs business  practices to be investigated. She is also 
concerned about  the level of data protection within HSBC as she believes her personal data 
has been compromised. 
The adjudicator felt that the service provided  to Ms K had caused her inconvenience  and 
distress and she had been given few assurances  during  the process. He believed  HSBC 
should pay Ms K £250 in compensation. 
HSBC accepted this proposal.  Ms K did not agree. She made  a number of points in reply  
which I shall address  below. But in summary she did not accept £250 as being  reflective  of 
the time and effort as well as inconvenience  caused. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that this situation  has cause Ms K a great  deal of frustration and anxiety. Forms 
have been lost which contain  her personal information so I can fully understand why she 
may feel vulnerable.  This is coupled with her additional problems trying  to adhere to HSBCs 
security policy  which  has led to her questioning  HSBCs  own internal data security.  So Id 
like to thank Ms K for all her comments which I have read in full. But if I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome.
HSBC has accepted the service wasnt as it shouldve been so I must decide if £250 is fair 
and reasonable under  the circumstances. 
the forms
The initial issue in this complaint concerns forms that HSBC  asked Ms K to complete and 
return. Ms K said she did so and sent them off. She helpfully provided photos of the 
envelopes. Ms K has said in her response  to the adjudicator  she is pretty  certain that the 
envelope did arrive at the HSBC centre outside of London but the information was misplaced 
or mishandled. She also said that there  is clear evidence that the whereabouts of my 
envelope was never even  investigated.  HSBC  has said it cannot account for what has 
happened to the forms. 
While I accept that its possible HSBC  received  the forms and they are lost internally Im 
afraid I cannot say so with Ms Ks level of certainty.  Nor has she provided evidence to 
support her certainty that the forms have been  received. Despite the envelope having the 
correct address on the front and Ms Ks address on the back it is still entirely possible the 
forms were lost in the post  in the postal system in B, by the airline  or in the UK postal 
system - as HSBC said in its final response. The fact that N received the forms is not 
evidence that HSBC did. So I dont believe it is fair to hold HSBC responsible for not 
receiving the forms. 
data handling
Ref: DRN03419673Ms K is worried about her personal  details  which  were contained in the forms, specifically as 
she is concerned about  HSBCs data handling. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
is EU legislation, replacing the Data Protection  Act 1998 (DPA) that protects  how peoples 
data is used and allows them more control over how organisations use their data. So it is law 
that HSBC must comply with. I am unable to consider whether HSBC is compliant  with 
GDPR that is the role of the Information  Commissioners office (ICO).  But when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable I must take into account relevant laws,  rules and industry 
practice. GDPR is relevant law. Im not persuaded there is any evidence to suggest HSBC 
has compromised  Ms Ks data. If Ms K continues to be concerned about HSBCs data 
handling or compliance with data protection law then she has the option to bring this to the 
attention of the ICO. 
HSBC processes 
Ms K would  like HSBC to become more  user and customer-friendly towards those account 
holders living outside  the UK especially as it is one of the worlds  largest  banks and operates 
globally. I can understand why Ms K might  say this. Unfortunately  this isnt something I can 
look into as its not my role to look at a banks processes. Thats  the role of the Financial  
Conduct Authority.  
Ms K has also complained HSBC continue to send  her CSR forms even though it is aware  of 
her tax status. I note that recently  Ms K mentioned  she had informed the bank she would be 
in another country for two to three months. She hasnt said whether this was for travel or 
work, so it seems reasonable that HSBC might require further clarification of tax status.  Both 
countries Ms K has moved  or travelled to participate in the CRS scheme. 
customer service
When HSBC didnt  receive the forms it asked Ms K to complete  new ones and said it would 
restrict access to her account if they werent received. Ive looked  at the terms and 
conditions of the account and Im satisfied HSBC  is within its rights  to do so. But I do think it 
couldve explained the situation better. 
Ms K raised a concern  that she was asked  for her tax identification  number by telephone 
after she had gone into branch and repeated  the forms and has indicated  this shows  that 
internal systems are not working as they should.  HSBC has explained that when Ms K 
visited the branch  to complete new forms she had self certified her tax identification number 
verbally but that this information was subsequently  needed. I realise this wasnt  particularly 
efficient but Ive no reason to doubt HSBCs  explanation or be concerned by it in Ms Ks 
case. But I do consider  that this wasnt explained  to Ms K clearly enough to alleviate any 
worries she might have. 
I can see that Ms K tried to ensure that HSBC knew to expect the information and when it 
wasnt received she tried to get the information  to the bank within  its deadlines. But Im 
satisfied the customer  service she received over the telephone while she was abroad wasnt  
helpful either in helping  her get the forms to the UK or setting up an appointment at the 
branch. And although I can see that when  she did visit the branch the relationship  manager  
was helpful, not all the information needed  had been  collected.
I havent seen  any evidence that Ms K has suffered any direct financial loss as a result  of 
this complaint. Ms K said she has spent a lot of time trying to sort out the forms, including  
having to visit the branch when she visited the UK. Shes asked for £1,000 compensation. 
Ref: DRN03419674Unfortunately we dont  make awards based on peoples time. Ms K said she was visiting  the 
UK anyway.  So I dont think it would be fair to expect HSBC to cover travel costs.  But I can 
see this has undoubtedly  been a considerable inconvenience to Ms K and has caused  her 
some distress.  So I believe HSBC should make a payment of £250  to Ms K to compensate 
her which I believe is fair and reasonable and what I would expect under the circumstances.
Ms K has indicated that she would not be waiving  her right to take further action because her 
personal details  were in the letter. The final decision is the end of our process  and Ms K has 
the right to accept or reject my findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay Ms K £250  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0341967