K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that he wasnt  suitably compensated for the distress and inconvenience  he 
experienced when having to reject a car he was financing through  an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS), trading as Skoda Financial Services.  
background 
In October  2017 Mr C took receipt  of a used car. He financed the deal through  a four year 
hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
But the car had a gearbox problem and in July 2018 VWFS told Mr C that, as the car hadnt 
been of satisfactory  quality and theyd been  unable to rectify the fault, they were  prepared to 
allow him to reject it, terminate his finance agreement with them  and have his deposit  
refunded. This deposit along  with a good  will gesture equivalent to two monthly  instalments, 
in recognition of Mr Cs loss of enjoyment and the time hed spent without  the vehicle, 
amounted to £5,418.34 but settlement wasnt made until September 2018. Mr C said this 
was too long.
He also noted  that it took VWFS 12 weeks to issue their final response on the matter and he 
complained this was excessive  as well and that it seemed  neither  the dealership; VWFS or 
the manufacturer were willing to take ownership  of the problem.
VWFS thought theyd  provided adequate redress so Mr C referred his complaint to this 
service and our adjudicator provided  his opinion.  He understood that the delay in the final 
response was because VWFS had been consulting extensively with the manufacturer and 
the dealership.  But he thought it was clear  Mr C hadnt been kept in the picture  and he 
understood that he wouldve thought nobody was taking  responsibility for the issue. He also 
noted that theyd taken  far too long to provide the settlement and whilst he understood this 
was because the dealership wouldnt take the car back  he thought  Mr Cs interests should 
have been put first; VWFS should have taken the car back and then dealt with the 
dealerships concerns separately.
Overall, the adjudicator agreed with Mr C that adequate compensation hadnt been provided  
for the distress and inconvenience hed been  put to. He suggested that, in the 
circumstances, an additional £300  would be fair and VWFS accepted  his recommendation.
But Mr C didnt and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN01250182board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
VWFS shouldve  provided their final response  to Mr C within  eight weeks but the response 
was delayed whilst they consulted with other parties and I can understand that this was 
distressing for Mr C.
The settlement  was also delayed and whilst I understand VWFSs reluctance to pay Mr C 
until theyd been  recompensed by the dealership, I think its fair to say Mr Cs interests 
shouldve been  put first. The delay  evidently caused him difficulties securing another  vehicle 
and it was unfair to deprive him of that money  for so long.
I understand this has been a frustrating time for Mr C and I accept that in these 
circumstances some further compensation is due. Having considered  that compensation I 
am persuaded that £300 is sufficient and VWFS  need not pay anything  more than that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr C £300 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience their actions have caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0125018