K821x#15complaint
Miss E complains  that Telefonica UK Limited  (O2) has failed to correct  an inaccurate  entry  it 
made on her credit  file. She wants compensation.
background
Miss E tells us she was successfully discharged from a debt relief  order  (DRO) in April 2018.  
She says since shes checked  her credit file with different credit reference agencies  (CRA).
She reports that - with one of the CRAs which Ill refer to as X - O2 are still recording the 
balance she previously owed on her account with it. This is despite  the debt having been  
wiped out by the DRO. And she tells us that O2 has refused  to correct the account. She asks 
for £150 compensation to cover poor service,  and the inconvenience and stress shes  
experienced.
O2 told us the credit file entry  showed  the correct start and end (satisfied) date of her DRO.
And it didnt  feel it had done anything wrong.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said hed seen a copy  of 
Miss Es credit report from X. He said the report was dated 26 May 2018  and showed a 
balance of £529. He said hed expect  it to show a zero balance  as it had been updated on 
25 May 2018. He said hes also seen a credit report dated 18 September 2018, which 
showed Miss E had a loan with O2 with £529 credit  in use. He said he didnt think  the impact 
on her credit  file would have been  significant - because of the other defaulted accounts - but 
he recommended  O2 pay £50 for the inconvenience caused by the incorrect  entry.
O2 disagreed with this view and said the credit file entry was correct. As its not been 
possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss E has experienced some financial difficulties as she entered a DRO - a 
form of insolvency - in 2017. This order was successfully discharged  in April 2018. I can 
understand why she is anxious that her credit file is updated accurately, as she seeks  to 
rebuild her credit score and with it her ability to access credit in the future.
The effect of a DRO is to discharge those debts which are included  within  the order. So after 
the DRO was discharged  Id expect to see any accounts which  were included  in it - and are 
recorded on her credit  file - to be marked as partly  settled  but with no outstanding balance.
Ive seen a copy  of the DRO and it contains  four accounts relating to O2. For the purposes of 
this complaint Im dealing  mainly with the debt listed in the schedule with a debit balance of 
£529. 
A business can choose to report account  behaviour to any or all of the different CRAs as it 
chooses. Ive seen copies of Miss Es credit  reports from three  different CRAs.  And it 
appears that there are differences in the recording of the relevant O2 account.
Ref: DRN02624632Ive seen a credit report from X which is recorded  as having been updated on 27 May 2018.  
The record  of the account history appears to be inconsistent.  The account is correctly  shown 
as defaulted but it shows  an outstanding balance of £529 as at 27 May 2018. But the 
balances for the months of March 2018 and April 2018 show the amount owing as zero.  The 
account then reverts to showing a balance  owing of £529 back to the date of April 2017 
when the DRO  started. As the DRO was discharged in April 2018 the May 2018 balance  
should show as zero.
Ive also seen a credit report from X which was updated 14 April 2019.  The entry for that 
month records:
Balance: £529.00 credit in use
But the record of the previous 12 monthly balances intermittently  records balances of zero 
(in four months) and £529 in the remaining eight months. Its not clear why this error is 
occurring but by now Id have expected O2 to have taken steps to try and prevent it.
Ive seen the recording of the same O2 account on two other CRAs credit reports. Miss E 
has confirmed, and I agree, that these records are accurate. They  show  the default date and 
show the correct  balance owed on that date. But they also correctly indicate  the account has 
no current outstanding  balance.
In summary,  the information with which Ive been supplied  shows  that the recording  of the 
relevant O2 account is not consistent.  It appears to be correctly recorded with two CRAs but 
with X the accuracy of the recording appears  to vary from month to month. On this basis  I 
uphold the complaint.
I think it unlikely that the inaccuracy has had any serious effect  on Miss Es ability  to access  
credit. As her credit  file is properly recording defaults, I think its these entries which are 
likely to have the greatest  impact. So I think £50 is a fair and reasonable amount to award  
for the inconvenience  caused.
Whilst I shant include  it as a formal part of my decision  Id expect O2 to make enquires and 
take the necessary steps to avoid this situation being repeated. This might  include manual 
monthly checks to ensure  the recorded  entry is correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  give above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Telefonica UK Limited to pay £50 to Miss E for the inconvenience caused  by its 
inaccurate reporting of credit file entries  relating to her account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02624633
Ref: DRN0262463