K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2009.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Fs credit card account when she applied for the card over the internet. 
It protected  Miss Fs card monthly repayments  in the event of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Miss F disagreed. Shes  asked for an 
ombudsman look at the complaint again  and make  a final decision.  
Miss F is mainly concerned that the PPI was added  without her knowledge or consent.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
When Miss F applied online for her card she wouldve had to tick a box to say she wanted  
PPI in order to have it added on to her card. And when she signed the credit card agreement  
sent to her in the post she also ticked the box next to where it says I wish to purchase 
Optional Capital  One Payment Protection Insurance. And she signed here.
She also signed the completed credit agreement  indicating  that she agreed with the 
information on the form.
Also, it looks  like the PPI wouldve appeared on her credit  card statements. So she couldve 
questioned the PPI at any time with Capital One if it was something she hadnt  known about 
or it had been  put on her account without her consent. Looked at overall, I think  its likely that 
Miss F chose the PPI, knowing it was up to her to say if she wanted  it  although I can 
understand if she cant remember this now after such a long time.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss F. This means it didnt  need  to make sure it 
was suitable for her. But Capital One still had to give Miss F enough clear information so she 
could decide for herself whether or not she wanted it. 
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it shouldve  been. So Ive thought 
carefully about whether Miss F mightve  made a different decision about taking out PPI if she 
was given clearer information. I still think she wouldve bought the PPI. 
Ref: DRN07656302Miss F was eligible for the policy. And she wasnt affected by any of the main  limitations  and 
exclusions that mightve made it harder to make a successful claim - such as an unusual  
employment situation or a pre-existing medical condition. So I dont think having more  
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking it out.
Miss F says she wouldve got no sick pay from her employer/  statutory  sick pay only.  And 
she told us she had no other ways to pay her monthly outgoings if she wasnt able to work.  
So I think this policy couldve been  useful  to her as it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if 
she had an accident  or she was too ill to work. And it wouldve also more than covered her 
card monthly repayments for up to 12 months  per claim if she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
Ive also taken into account that she had previously had another policy  set up - but it looks  
like this offered a different sort of cover to PPI and Miss F told us she thinks  she had 
probably cancelled  it anyway before she took out the PPI. 
Based on everything  shes  told us, I think Miss F couldve benefitted from the PPI.   
I dont think the PPI cost was made  clear to Miss F when she bought  the policy.  But, from 
what Ive seen, Miss F hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford  the monthly premiums. And 
she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to, so it seems  Miss F wanted  this 
type of cover  at the time. Looked at overall, I think Miss F still wouldve decided  to buy the 
policy if shed been better informed.  The policy gave  her worthwhile  protection  in her 
particular situation.  So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it.
This means  Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss F.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because:  
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Miss F about that. Because  Capital 
One (Europe)  plc didnt tell Miss F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe)  plc has paid back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN07656303my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss F any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0765630