K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold  him a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr C completed  a postal application to apply  for a credit card in 2000. The PPI was sold at 
the same  time in connection  with this credit card account. 
The policy cost 89p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance if Mr C was off work sick or lost his job. And it wouldve 
cleared the balance if Mr C died. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the policy  was 
presented as optional and wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr C.
Mr C disagrees.  He says didnt know it was optional and didnt need it.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for on a postal  application  completed by Mr C when he applied  for a 
credit card. Mr C hasnt been  able to give us much  detail about the sale but given the length 
of time that has passed I think this is understandable. So Ive looked to the documents from 
the time of the sale to help me decide  how the PPI was presented to Mr C at the time of sale 
and how it came to be applied to his account.
Capital One have given us a copy of the original  credit card application form. I can see in the 
section that deals with PPI it says Please enrol me in Capital Ones Payment Protection 
scheme with a Yes or No box just next to this. I see Mr C has selected the yes box. 
If Mr C didnt want to take out PPI he couldve  selected the No box like he did with the 
other options given  to him. Because Mr C was given the option  to select  yes or no to PPI, 
I think its likely he knew he had a choice about  taking  out PPI and chose to take it because  
he wanted the cover.
Because the application was by post and appears  to have been completed without the 
involvement of a sales representative  in Mr Cs own time, I dont think  Capital One advised 
Mr C to take the cover. What this means  is that PPI wasnt recommended  to Mr C by Capital 
One, they just gave  him information about  PPI. This information needed to be given in a way 
that was clear, fair and not misleading  so he could make an informed choice about buying 
PPI.
Ref: DRN08338782For information on PPI the application  form says see leaflet enclosed. I havent  seen a 
copy of the leaflet so I dont what  information  was given to Mr C at the point of sale.  So 
I dont know whether the information given was good enough. That being  said if Capital One 
did give all the information Mr C needed  to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, 
I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr C says he was entitled  to some sick pay and had a small 
amount of savings  he could use to make his credit card payments if he couldnt work or 
lost his job. But the policy wouldve paid out of top of this and for potentially longer up to 
12 months  per claim.  
So I think the policy provided a useful benefit for Mr C in his situation.  
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr C and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr C on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Capital 
One (Europe)  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0833878