K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK Plc used incorrect assessment criteria in approving a 
loan application  that was unaffordable to her. 
background
In November 2014 Miss W applied online to Santander for a loan, which the bank approved. 
Miss W maintained her repayments until May 2016,  but she then struggled to make  them.  
The bank closed  the account  in November 2016 and in April 2017  a debt support charity 
negotiated a repayment plan on Miss Ws behalf. Interest on the account was frozen  and 
Miss Ws repayments were reduced  significantly.  
In February 2018  Miss W submitted a financial  statement to Santander  and the bank agreed 
a small reduction to her repayments, but she didnt  reduce them.  And in August 2018  Miss 
W asked Santander to write off her loan. When it refused to do so she complained  that the 
loan should never  have  been approved because it was unaffordable.
In summary,  our adjudicator said that he didnt think that Santander had done anything  
wrong in approving Miss Ws loan. With the exception of a notice of correction on her credit 
file  which the bank had referred for a decision  there was nothing to suggest  that Miss W 
was in financial difficulty at the time of her application, or that she was likely to find the loan 
unaffordable. And she then maintained her loan repayments for some 18 months.  Given this 
the adjudicator  said he couldnt  reasonably  conclude  that Santander had been wrong to 
approve Miss Ws loan. And he considered that it had responded sympathetically to her 
subsequent financial  difficulties by agreeing the reduced repayments proposed on her behalf 
by the debt charity.
Miss W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said the only reason she 
had been able to maintain her repayments was by defaulting on other financial 
commitments. And this pushed her into further  financial  hardship.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial organisations  are required to lend responsibly and to carry out sufficient checks  to 
ensure that they do. But the checks undertaken should be proportionate both to the amount 
being requested  and to the risk involved for both the customer  and the bank. And there is no 
set list of checks or criteria applicable to all circumstances. 
Miss W made  an online loan application  to Santander, but didnt declare her monthly  
outgoings. And so the bank says it used  average expenditure figures published  by the Office 
for National Statistics. It checked Miss Ws credit file, which revealed nothing of concern 
apart from the notice  of correction. Because of this Santander  referred  Miss Ws application  
internally for a decision, and concluded  it had no good reason to refuse the loan. 
Miss W then maintained her repayments  for some 18 months.  On the face of it therefore  the 
loan was affordable  to her at the time it was approved. Her situation obviously changed 
some months later, but as long as the bank couldnt reasonably  have foreseen this  and I 
dont consider that it could have done here  I cannot criticise its decision to lend to Miss W.
Ref: DRN03900172Once Santander was approached by a debt charity on Miss Ws behalf it agreed the much 
lower repayment amount  proposed by that charity. Miss W now wants Santander to write off 
the loan and she has submitted another financial statement in support of her request. The 
bank has considered this, but concluded that the previously agreed monthly repayments of 
£14.95 should still be affordable to Miss W. Consequently it is not prepared to write  off her 
loan.
This is a decision that the bank is entitled to take.  It has responded sympathetically to Miss 
Ws position by reducing her repayments in response to the proposal by the debt charity.  
And having looked at the information provided by Miss W, and recognising  that her financial 
situation needs careful managing, I do not consider that I can reasonably ask Santander to 
do more than it has. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0390017