K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly declined their travel  
insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs L have their UKI travel  insurance  through their packaged bank account. Mrs Ls 
father booked a holiday for the whole family to travel  in May 2018. Mr and Mrs L and her 
brother were to pay their father their portion of the costs in the month of travel, as is usual for 
them.  
Unfortunately, Mrs Ls mother became very unwell and wasnt  fit to travel. Her father  
subsequently cancelled the trip, but because of how close this was to the departure date, 
there was no refund  for the accommodation  and the flights were  non-refundable. Her father  
agreed both Mrs L and her brother  could repay  their portion of the costs  once they received 
their respective insurance settlements.  
Mrs L submitted a claim to UKI. She provided all the evidence asked for and in October 2018 
she was told the claim  had been  successful  and that payment would be made. However, 
when payment wasnt forthcoming and she chased  this, she was informed the claim wasnt 
covered. Mr and Mrs L complained. UKI considered the complaint and upheld it in part. It 
explained the claim was declined as Mr and Mrs L hadnt suffered  a financial loss  no 
payment had been made towards  the holiday.  But it didnt agree it had provided good  
customer service  and arranged £150  compensation. 
Not happy with that, Mr and Mrs L asked us to look their complaint. Following some initial 
confusion between UKI and our investigator  there was a suggestion UKI would reconsider 
the claim if it could be shown they had suffered a loss  that is, payment had been  made  to 
Mrs Ls father. So Mr and Mrs L arranged this. But UKI clarified that it still wouldnt cover the 
claim as there was no financial loss at the date of loss. 
Our investigator agreed that UKI was right to decline the claim initially  but she concluded 
UKI should now reconsider the claim  as evidence had been  provided of loss. But UKI 
maintained its position.
The matter  was referred to me for a decision.  Before  reaching that decision I asked for 
further information:
Evidence that Mr and Mrs L had the funds to repay Mrs Ls father when originally 
intended  - which was provided. 
Evidence that Mrs Ls father had only received his portion of the costs when he claimed 
on his insurance   which was provided.
UKI was asked to consider this information.  It queried why the money didnt  have to be 
repaid until a year down  the line and whether the other travellers had reimbursed the father, 
if not this suggests  the holiday was a gift. 
Mr and Mrs L provided more evidence that Mrs Ls brother had received a claim settlement  
and that this had subsequently been  paid to his father. This was sent to UKI for consideration 
but it didnt provide further comment but instead resent the same  concerns again. 
Ref: DRN05386822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for the broadly the same reasons has the investigator. 
Under Section  A of the policy  Cancelling your trip (before you are due to start your trip) its 
explained the policy covers:
We will cover you for your:
Unused deposits
Accommodation and travel  costs (including car hire, excursions and 
activities); and
Unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
that you have  paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need  to cancel your trip 
for one of the following  reasons:
One of the following people dies, is seriously  injured  or is seriously  ill:
Any insured person;
Your travelling companion 
A close  relative;
A close  business associate; or
Anyone outside your home area that you planned to stay with.
You, your and insured person(s)  is defined as the account holder,  their partner, any 
dependents and any guest. 
I accept that when Mr and Mrs L originally made their claim to UKI they hadnt suffered a 
financial loss as they hadnt repaid Mrs Ls father for booking the holiday. And the terms do 
refer to cover for what Mr and Mrs L have paid for. 
But I dont think its fair that UKI refuses  to reconsider the claim now that evidence has been 
provided of Mr and Mrs Ls financial loss. Mr and Mrs L have now provided  evidence that 
they have paid Mrs Ls father (and that they could have done so when originally planned),  
that Mrs Ls brother has also paid his father, and that Mrs Ls father has only received his 
proportion of the costs from his insurer.  So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L have  provided  
persuasive evidence  that the holiday Mrs Ls father  booked was not a gift for the family, but a 
family holiday where family members pay their share. It follows  from this that Im satisfied 
they have evidenced a financial loss. 
UKI is also concerned  about why the money  didnt have to be repaid until a year down the 
line. It appears UKI hasnt  considered the testimony provided by Mr and Mrs L. They  clearly  
explained that they had originally planned to pay Mrs Ls father  in the month of travel.  But 
because of the circumstances their planned  trip was cancelled.  Mrs Ls father agreed to wait 
until insurance settlements had been received for his reimbursement. Mr and Mrs L 
submitted their claim shortly after their trip was cancelled.  UKI then declined it in November 
2018 some  six months later. Mr and Mrs L then referred their complaint to us.  
Ref: DRN05386823It isnt unusual for family members or friends  travelling together  to have one person as the 
lead booker and separate arrangements for reimbursement to that person. Indeed, if being 
seated together is important that is generally  the only way to guarantee it. Im not persuaded 
its fair or reasonable  for UKI to not take account of such  booking circumstances, particularly 
when they are fairly common.  Its also disappointing  that UKI didnt properly consider or 
comment on the further evidence provided to it, that showed the holiday wasnt  a gift.  
Mr and Mrs L were  also caused some inconvenience particularly as they were  led to believe 
the claim was being met in October  2018, only to find out later that it was being  declined. 
UKI has already  paid £150 for the inconvenience which I find to be fair. 
How UKI need  to put this right
As I have upheld this complaint I require UKI to:
Pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim subject to the remaining  terms and conditions.  
Add 8% interest  to the settlement sum from the date Mr and Mrs L paid Mrs Ls father to 
the date of settlement. 
If UKI thinks its legally  required to deduct income tax from any interest, it must  send a tax 
deduction certificate to Mr and Mrs L if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited and 
require it to settle Mr and Mrs Ls claim in accordance  with the above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0538682