K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Portman Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  in 2004.
background
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint as Mrs J had two jobs both when she took out the 
policy, and when it was amended in 2005. The adjudicator thought the policy terms meant 
she wouldnt  have been able to claim for unemployment. And if this part of the policy  terms 
had been drawn  to Mrs Js attention the adjudicator  didnt think  Mrs J would have taken out 
the policy.
In my provisional decision of 3 December 2018  I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold  
this complaint. In response to that provisional  decision  neither  Portman nor Mrs J had any 
further comments to add.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance  on our website  and I 
have taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
I explained the following in my provisional decision:
I think Portman made it clear  Mrs J didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it. I say this because Ive seen a copy  of her mortgage application and there is a section 
for the PPI. In this section there is an option  to select or decline PPI. A tick has been  
placed in the yes box for PPI and a tick has also been entered  to select accident,   
sickness and unemployment cover.  These selections show  that PPI was considered  and 
Mrs J decided what kind of cover she wanted.  Mrs J has signed this document to show  
she agreed to the information contained within it. And I havent seen anything  to show  
that the PPI was a compulsory element of the mortgage. 
Portman recommended  the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
I understand that Mrs J had two jobs when she bought the PPI, and still had two jobs 
when she changed  the policy to cover  some additional borrowing a short  time later. But 
shes also told us that she worked less than 16 hours per week  in her second job, and 
looking closely at the terms  and conditions of the PPI policy,  I think  she would have been 
able to claim on the PPI if she lost her full time job. 
The policy terms define unemployment as being out of work, being registered as 
unemployed with the Department  for Work and Pensions,  or such government  office 
which replaces it The policy doesnt define work but it defines full-time employment 
as working for at least  16 hours per week. In general, those who are working  less than 
16 hours per week are able to claim for income  support or jobseekers allowance from the 
government. So with this in mind,  I think that Mrs J would have met the definition  of 
unemployed as she would have  been able to register  as unemployed with the 
Ref: DRN03301692Department for Work and Pensions,  or such government office  which replaces it if she 
lost her main  job.
It doesnt look like she was affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, and she seems  to have had a need for the cover. So thinking carefully about all of 
this, I think that the policy was right for her.
Its possible the information Portman  gave Mrs J about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. I 
understand Mrs J was entitled to some sick pay and had some  savings  or other  means 
of meeting her repayments. But the PPI could have helped cover her mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months  if needed,  longer  than her full sick pay would have 
lasted, and would have meant  any savings  she had were available for other essential 
expenditure. It also would have  covered the repayments for up to 12 months if she had 
become unemployed. And it looks  like it was affordable.  So given that the mortgage  was 
a significant financial  commitment secured against her home,  I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mrs J off taking out the cover. 
Which means PBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
As neither Portman nor Mrs J has said anything to make me change  my mind,  my decision 
remains unchanged  I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0330169