K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that it was irresponsible for National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) to 
have approved an overdraft for £8,000. He also complains that it wont  block gambling 
transactions on his account.  
background
Mr T opened an account with NatWest  in April 2018.  In August he applied  for a loan of 
£15,000. His application was accepted but Mr T returned the funds shortly after.  He applied 
for a loan of £20,000 in October  but again  he returned the funds shortly after. He said he had 
been advised to do this by a third party to prevent him spending the money  on gambling 
sites. 
In January 2019 Mr T applied online for an overdraft  of £8,000  which NatWest agreed to on 
11 January. In the days that followed Mr T took the account to the limit of his overdraft. On 
22 January he complained to NatWest. He said that the overdraft increased his borrowing 
limit from under £1,000 to £8,000. And he thought  that too much considering he had 
previously told NatWest  he had a gambling addiction and was getting  treatment. He said as 
a result he was in severe financial  difficulty.  
NatWest said it did not have a record of Mr T telling it he had a gambling  addiction. Nor that 
he was in any financial difficulty. It said it had carried out an automatic affordability 
assessment through his online application.  It said there are a number and variety  of different 
business rules and warning triggers in place  to try to check the information within the 
assessment is correct. It said in Mr Ts case  its decision to approve the overdraft  was based 
on appropriate information at the time the application was made.  And the information 
satisfied all of the banks criteria. NatWest also provided some options Mr T could  consider  
to help him to control his money.  
Mr T wasnt satisfied  with this final response  and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said he was appalled  that NatWest viewed  gambling  as a lifestyle  choice for most. He said 
NatWest was still refusing  to block gambling payments from his account  which  contradicts its 
statement that they put in place measures for vulnerable customers.
Our adjudicator didnt  think NatWest had done  anything wrong and had dealt  with Mr Ts 
complaint fairly. She was satisfied NatWest had completed appropriate checks and hadnt 
made an error in approving the overdraft facility. Mr T remained unhappy and asked  for a 
final decision. 
He couldnt understand why the bank did not had a record  of his phone  conversations 
regarding gambling,  and why it could lend such significant sums  of money to someone on a 
small salary. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T but having done so I wont be asking  NatWest  to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN02039912Firstly Im sorry to hear that Mr T is currently in financial difficulty.  This must be a difficult  
time for him and I am reassured he is seeking  the help and support he needs. I can fully 
understand why he would want  NatWest  to support him at this time. 
approval of £8,000 overdraft
I have looked  at the credit report dated  March  2019 Mr T provided  to us and the NatWests 
contact notes and record of credit applications.  Mr T had arranged overdraft limits on his 
account since September 2018. In September and October the limit was £2,250,  in 
November there was no overdraft. In December it was £2,000 and in January it was £1,000. 
During this period Mr T remained within his overdraft limit. 
Ive also looked  at Mr Ts bank statements from when the account was opened in 2018.  In 
June and July there  is a little gambling activity  but Mr T manages  the account  well. In July 
there are large transactions in and out of the account. In August Mr Ts level of betting  
increased and he made  full use of his overdraft facility through  September. But I also notice 
a number of payments into the account upwards  of £3,500. 
In October  Mr T received large  deposits  and at one stage  the account  balance was £26,845. 
While there  is betting activity (directly to online betting outlets) these do not account for the 
drop in balance. Rather this is due to transfers  out to two other accounts in particular. Its not 
clear to me whose accounts these were but transactions  both to and from them  happen 
frequently over a few months. Mr T has said he has a gambling addiction  and its possible 
these are indirect gambling transactions but I cant say for certain. Money moves back and 
forth to these accounts. Nor would I reasonably expect  NatWest to identify them as gambling 
transactions even  if they were. 
In November Mr Ts account balance was low but he had no overdraft.  While  Mr T says he is 
in financial difficulty the fact the account balance was low at this time would not necessarily  
be an indicator of this. Towards  the end of the month further significant betting occurred and 
Mr T was back into overdraft through December. 
Mr T has told us he considers the increase of borrowing from £1,000  (the overdraft limit in 
January) to £8,000 to be too much. During September,  October and December Mr T showed 
through his account management that he was able to manage with overdrafts up to £2,250. 
So I believe  the bank  would consider this as an increase of £5,750 from recent  borrowing 
levels.
Mr T is also concerned that it increased  the overdraft limit to £8,000 having lent him £5,000 
on his NatWest credit card. Mr T applied for his credit card with NatWest in September. It 
appears he had a credit card with another account  at the time which, according to his credit  
file, he paid off in October, possibly with a balance transfer. From his credit  file I can see the 
balance of his new credit card account  in October  was £2,819, in November it was £5,021, 
and in December  it was £5. By the time he asked for an extension  to his overdraft  in January 
it would  have been £794 or less. 
Its not clear to me how he paid off the card. By the time he applied for the overdraft 
extension he had shown  NatWest he was able to manage his credit card account.   
Mr T has said the affordability calculator failed because it stated he had no bills including  no 
mortgage. On Mr Ts credit file I can see that he has a mortgage and has kept up 
repayments. But these  payments do not come out of his NatWest current account nor are 
Ref: DRN02039913there any utility bills or other household  bills debiting the account. But the account does 
receive a regular income. So NatWest should have taken this into account, as it was on Mr 
Ts credit file. But even if I include the mortgage as expenditure  I still consider that 
appropriate affordability checks were carried out. And that the level of disposable income 
was high. 
I found no adverse  information on Mr Ts credit file that would cause concern. Mr T has said 
that a short  term payday loan he took in January is evidence of financial difficulty. At the time 
Mr T asked  for the extension to his overdraft the loan would not have  been  known to 
NatWest, unless he had told the bank, and it would not have appeared on Mr Ts credit file 
until the following  month. 
Over the period of time since Mr T opened  his current account there are many  large  deposits  
to the account  and Mr T was able to manage  his overdraft levels  up to 14 January 2019. So 
Im satisfied that NatWest  did appropriate checks and hasnt made an error in extending Mr 
Ts overdraft. 
financial difficulty
Mr T has said he informed  NatWest  he had a gambling addiction  in phone calls to the bank 
when he returned  the loans. He said he also told staff at a local branch. NatWest  said it 
doesnt have any record of this nor of Mr T telling it he was in financial difficulty. It said it has 
only been able to find one of the calls and there  is no mention from Mr T of his gambling 
addiction. Mr T has queried how only one call has been found  and not the other where  he 
said he said he was in difficulty. I do understand this would concern Mr T. While it would be 
ideal to have a record of all calls sometimes calls are not recorded  or are not able to be 
saved. 
However even in the absence of the call recording I would also expect to see written 
evidence of the details of the call; especially if financial difficulty and gambling  were 
mentioned, to be recorded  in contact notes. While Im not disputing Mr T informed NatWest,  
there is no such record from either  telephone calls or from the branch. 
Im also not disputing Mr T is in financial difficulty or that he has a gambling addiction.  It is to 
his credit that he is taking  steps to help himself.  But based on his account management, no 
adverse information  on the credit file, and the large  amount of money coming  into the current  
account over a period of a few months, and the absence of a record of Mr T informing 
NatWest, Im satisfied NatWest could not reasonably have been aware he was in difficulty. 
Payments to betting sites would  not necessarily be a trigger particularly if there  is regular 
income into the account and the account is managed within  its limits. And in that situation 
such account activity  would not necessarily  be a barrier to further lending. 
Ref: DRN02039914account block
Mr T would like NatWest  to block any payments  to gambling sites and he has said NatWest 
has refused to do this. Mr T has also said it isnt helping  him given his current 
circumstances. NatWest  has said it is unable  to block  these  payments.  Its not my role to 
look at the banks processes. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. So I am 
unable to make any comment about  whether or not NatWest can or should  block payments. 
No can I instruct it to do so. Mr T has noted that other banks are able to do this. 
Unfortunately I cant comment on what other  businesses are able to do. 
In its final response to Mr T, NatWest  suggested some things that may help him, now that it 
is aware of his situation. It suggested  contacting the betting sites directly,  especially one 
specific site Mr T has used frequently, to put in place  a Self Exclusion  agreement as per the 
Gambling Commission  advice. It also said it had now recorded that Mr T is a vulnerable  
consumer and that any further lending  application would be referred to the Personal Lending 
unit. I also note there is a restriction  on lending on the contact notes. 
NatWest has also said it can make some changes to Mr Ts account  e.g. downgrade it and 
replace the debit card to stop spending where  funds are not available. So I am satisfied it 
has made appropriate suggestions for help. If Mr T would like to take up these suggestions 
he should contact  NatWest. Banks must  respond positively and sympathetically when they 
become aware  a customer  is in financial difficulty. If Mr T continues  to have problems paying 
off the overdraft he should speak  to NatWest about  his options.   
Mr T is also concerned that the bank views gambling as mostly a lifestyle  choice. I am 
unable to comment on NatWests policy or opinion on gambling. But having read NatWests 
final response letter and follow  up emails to Mr T Im satisfied NatWest appreciates that for 
Mr T it is a more  serious addiction.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0203991