K820x#14complaint
Mr R instructed The FCC Group  Ltd (FCC) to make  a mis-sold package  bank  account  (PBA) 
claim on his behalf. The claim  was successful and Mr R received  compensation from his 
PBA provider.
background
Mr R is unhappy with the fees FCC are charging  him. His compensation was made up of:
A refund of the PBA fees hed paid, less the savings made on his overdraft by this 
refund.
Interest on the PBA fees being  refunded,  calculated at the statutory rate of 8% a 
year, less income tax on the interest, calculated at 20%.
Mr R says that the contract he signed with FCC only allowed them  to charge their fee on the 
recovered PBA fees. He believes they arent  entitled  to charge their fee on the interest part 
of the compensation. Hes also unhappy  that FCC offered him a goodwill reduction in their 
fees but, when  he told them he considered this an admission of liability,  they withdrew this.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found that FCC had calculated their fees in line with the contract  Mr R had 
signed, and this contract didnt refer to the refund of PBA fees only.  Because  of this he felt 
that FCC had acted  reasonably.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. He felt the investigator  had not considered all of the 
facts. He says the first page of the documentation  he signed clearly states in BOLD [I was] 
to pay a success fee of the Packaged Bank Account ! He says FCC didnt make it 
unequivocally clear what PBA covers. Because of this hes only prepared to pay the fee 
based on the fee refund he received, and not the interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen the first page of the documentation  Mr R received. This says that the paperwork is 
in regards  to your packaged bank  account claim. It also says that FCC will work  with the 
bank to reclaim back your mis-sold  monthly premiums. I agree with Mr R that this doesnt  
define what a PBA is, and this page makes no mention of FCCs fees and how they are 
calculated.
This paperwork says it was sent to Mr R following  an earlier conversation  about  the claim.  
FCC must have discussed the claim with Mr R during this call because  the paperwork they 
sent him was pre-completed with the information  hed given them. Mr R wouldve had the 
opportunity during this call to ask any questions about what  a PBA was. Because of this Im 
satisfied that Mr R had the opportunity to understand what the claim was for.
Ref: DRN00530532Ive also seen a copy of the contract  Mr R signed  with FCC. This defines their fees as 
36.0% of the total pre-tax settlement   36p in the pound. Our charges  apply  to the total 
value of benefits, monetary or otherwise. FCC have  referred to the total value of the claim 
twice when explaining their fees. Because of this I am satisfied it wasnt mis-leading and 
didnt imply the fees are only calculated on the PBA refund  part of the compensation.
While I accept that Mr R wont agree with me, because of the paperwork he signed FCC are 
entitled to charge their fee on the total amount of the refund he received, including  interest, 
and calculated before  deduction of income tax. Mr R did not accept FCCs goodwill offer to 
calculate their fees on the total compensation after tax to resolve  his complaint at an earlier  
stage. Because  FCC have done  nothing  wrong,  I cant force  them to reinstate this offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint. Because of this I wont be 
asking The FCC Group Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0053053