K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc applied excessive charges and 
interest on her overdraft over the last ten years and that it took advantage of her worsening  
financial situation and didnt do anything to help her.
To settle matters Mrs W would like the interest refunded  to her.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings  on it, can be found in my 
provisional decision a copy extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I wasnt proposing to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final decision. 
Neither Mrs W nor NatWest have provided any further information for my consideration.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05155052copy extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that National Westminster  Bank Plc applied excessive  charges and interest on her 
overdraft over the last ten years and that it took advantage of her worsening financial situation and 
didnt do anything to help her.
To settle  matters Mrs W would like the interest refunded to her.
background
Mrs W says that over the last ten years, as her financial  position worsened, NatWest continually 
charged her excessively  to use an overdraft. She says she was stuck in a cycle of charges that she 
wasnt able to break out of. And shes recently been forced to take out a loan to reduce  the interest 
and charges.
She also says that over the last eight years  she contacted  NatWest by phone  and face to face to 
ask for help.  But she was told there was nothing  it could  do.
When Mrs W complained  to NatWest it didnt uphold her complaint. It looked at the charges and 
interest applied to her account over the last six years but said they were properly charged in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of her account.  As a gesture of goodwill it refunded 
overdraft usage fees of £18 and debit interest of £199.72.
Mrs W wasnt  happy with NatWests response so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong  because it had applied charges  in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account and its published tariff and rates.
He also looked at whether NatWest shouldve been alerted to the fact she was in financial  difficulty. 
He noted that Mrs W used her overdraft regularly  but he didnt consider  this unusual or a reason  to 
suggest it was unaffordable.  Mrs W had managed her overdraft without going  over her agreed limit. 
So he didnt think there was anything to suggest the overdraft  wasnt within her means.
He also considered  whether NatWest shouldve treated  her account as being in persistent  debt. But 
he didnt think this applied  to Mrs W because she hadnt paid more in interest, fees and charges  than 
shed repaid  in borrowing  over 18 months or more.
Mrs W disagrees with the investigators  view. Ive summarised her points  and the 
investigators response in italics.
 its not acceptable  that the charges and interest on her account  over the past six years 
equate to over £4,000. How was she supposed to get out of debt?  The investigator 
appreciated her frustration but the interest and charges applied  to her account were 
contractual and the account terms clearly set out what the monthly  charges  were  when 
she used her arranged overdraft facility.
     she doesnt think the amount offered by NatWest  as a gesture of goodwill is fair  and 
were just taking the side of banks. The investigator reassured Mrs W that he hadnt 
sided with NatWest  and hed investigated Mrs Ws complaint on its merits.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05155053I should firstly  explain to Mrs W that I can only look at whats happened in the six years before she 
complained to NatWest.  I can see that the investigator has already explained  to Mrs W the time 
limits we operate under.
I appreciate Mrs Ws strength of feeling regarding the amount of interest and charges  shes been  
charged. But I cant say it was wrong  of NatWest to apply  these. I say this because NatWest agreed 
to provide an arranged overdraft for Mrs W, and in return for doing  so, it applied charges in line with 
the terms and conditions of her account and in accordance with its published  tariff of charges.
But that is only the first part of Mrs Ws complaint. She says that over the last eight years she 
contacted NatWest  and asked for help but none  was given. As Ive explained above I can only look 
at what happened  in the six years before she complained to NatWest. In situations  where a 
customer gets into financial difficulties we expect  a business to act positively and sympathetically 
so I need  to decide if NatWest did that or whether, as Mrs W thinks, it couldve done more for her.
We asked  Mrs W for more  details about when she asked NatWest for help. She says she first 
raised the issue about  six and a half years  ago followed by further discussions in 2013 or 2014  
but she couldnt  recall any exact dates. I appreciate Mrs W says she told NatWest about her 
financial difficulties, but if this was the case, Id expect  there  to be some information about this on 
NatWests customer records. NatWest provided its customer notes relating to Mrs Ws account  
from this time but theres no record to suggest she made it aware  of her financial  difficulties prior to 
her written complaint in 2019. Overall I havent seen any persuasive evidence that NatWest was on 
notice about her financial difficulties.
As I havent seen any written  information to support or show  that Mrs W told NatWest of her 
financial difficulties, Ive also looked  at her statements to see if NatWest  should have been alerted 
to her financial difficulties. Im afraid I havent seen anything  to suggest this was the case. I can see 
Mrs W had an arranged overdraft facility  for a number  of years but she generally kept within her 
agreed overdraft limit and there  were regular  credits to her account.
Based on the information Ive seen I cant fairly conclude  that Mrs W told NatWest of her financial 
difficulties or that it was on notice that she was experiencing financial difficulties. So I cant fairly 
say that NatWest would have been aware that it needed to treat her positively and 
sympathetically.
Mrs W thinks  its unfair shes had to take out a loan to repay her overdraft. But I cant  say her 
financial position has worsened  because the amount  she owed on her overdraft has been replaced 
by the loan.
I dont think it was appropriate for the investigator to look at whether Mrs W was in persistent debt. 
I say this because under  the relevant rules persistent debt is only relevant in the case  of credit 
card debt  and here Mrs Ws debt was in connection  with her arranged overdraft.
In the circumstances for the reasons Ive explained above I think  NatWest acted fairly  when it 
refunded £217.72 of fees and interest as a gesture of goodwill. So I wont  be asking it to do 
anything further.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont  intend  to uphold this complaint.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0515505