K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. The policy was taken out in 2001 when Mrs P applied  for a new credit 
card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mrs P that they didnt think her mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has since offered to give back  to Mrs P some of the 
cost of the PPI. 
Mrs P still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and has asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps mis-sale complaint.
Mrs Ps says it wasnt clear enough that the PPI was optional and she didnt need it. 
However, weve seen  a few similar  cases to this and as a consequence,  we now know  quite 
a bit about how the processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used 
during the course of these  particular  sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually  
spoke with a Halifax adviser to discuss  their requirements and as a result of that discussion 
a credit agreement was then drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
We were sent a copy of Mrs Ps agreement and I can see a box about  PPI was selected on 
the form. We know the sale was carried out in a branch, so I think  the PPI being chosen in 
this way would have been done as a result  of the conversation Ive mentioned above. Mrs P 
also signed the agreement, so I think this shows she asked for the cover.
But its also my experience that Halifax described PPI charges as credit card repayments  
insurance on the monthly statements  that were sent to consumers. It sent me an example of 
Mrs Ps statements  which  showed  she was charged in this way.
So whilst I accept this is all quite a long time ago, I think its more likely Halifax got Mrs Ps 
consent for the PPI and she would have  been able to see it had been set up on her account.  
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs P. I think it was.
This is because I think Mrs P was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that shed  have been  
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of 
the policy was 78p per £100 of the outstanding  balance which  was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Mrs P. 
Ref: DRN06348262Mrs P says she got sick pay with her job at the time.  Ive thought  about  this but Im afraid  this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of any use. In the event of a successful claim, the 
PPI could have  paid out 10% of her outstanding  credit card balance for up to a year.  So 
having very carefully considered everything Mrs P has told us, overall I think  the policy was 
suitable for her.
Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Mrs P 
to make an informed decision.  She says it wasnt and I obviously cant say she was told 
everything she should have been told. But as Ive said, I think there would have been a 
discussion about the policy and how it worked.  I also think Mrs P would have been  given  
something explaining the policy rules.
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax 
doesnt need to refund everything Mrs P paid for it. But its offered to give her back  some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank of Scotland Plc will make  
arrangements to pay Mrs P now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint about  the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0634826