K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that NewDay Ltd failed to provide her with statements in large font.
background
Mrs P holds an account with NewDay. She says that when she opened  the account she 
asked for statements and letters to be sent to her in large font.
Mrs P complained to NewDay  in September 2018.  She said she hadnt received her 
statement in large  print and had to ask a third party to read it for her. She asked NewDay  to 
refund the interest which had been charged  to her account in August 2018.
NewDay said it had no record of Mrs P requesting large print statements prior to her 
complaint in September 2018. It said that Mrs P hadnt made the full payment required on 
her account  in August 2018  and this was why interest had been applied.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with this response  so she complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was no record of Mrs P 
requesting large  print prior to September 2018 and since  then NewDay had made  
arrangements for statements to be sent in large  print. The investigator said that the interest 
added to Mrs Ps account in August  2018  and September 2018 was correct because she 
hadnt paid the July and August  balance in full and/or  by the due date.
Mrs P didnt agree. She remained unhappy  that she was charged interest when she wasnt  
receiving large print statements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the system  notes provided  by NewDay. These show  that Mrs P has previously 
complained about not receiving her statements but theres no record of her asking for large 
print prior to September  2018.
I appreciate that Mrs P says that she requested  large print when she opened the account.  
But I havent seen  any evidence to confirm this. On the available evidence,  Mrs P has held 
the account for several years  and has always received statements in regular print.  She has 
contacted NewDay  before to query  missing  statements and interest  charges but I cant see 
that she ever raised an issue  about  print size. I think  that if Mrs P had requested large  print 
when she opened  the account she would have mentioned this issue much sooner than 
September 2018.
I can see that since September  2018 NewDay has arranged for statements to be sent in 
large print. Mrs P has confirmed that shes receiving these.  But shes  still unhappy  that she 
was charged interest at a time when she wasnt receiving large print statements.
Ive looked at Mrs Ps July 2018  statement. This required  payment of the full balance  by 20 
August 2018.  I can see that Mrs P only paid part of the balance. This resulted in interest 
being added to the account.
Ref: DRN07609812Ive also looked  at Mrs Ps August statement. This required payment of the full balance  by 20 
September 2018. I can see that Mrs P didnt make her payment until 24 September 2018.  
This resulted in interest  being added to the account.
On balance Im unable to say that NewDay has made an error. The terms and conditions  of 
the account require the full balance to be paid by the due date and allow  interest be added if 
the full payment isnt made  or if the payment  is late.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint and I wont  be asking NewDay 
to refund any interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0760981