K821x#15complaint
Ms D has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds handling of her car insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
background
Ms D bought her car on 11 December 2018 for £6,800 and insured it with Ageas. 
Unfortunately, on 4 January 2019, she was the victim of an arson attack which  destroyed  her 
car. It was a total loss. Ms D claimed  on her policy. Ageas said the pre-incident  market value 
of her car was £5,088. They deducted the £100 policy excess  from that. Ms D complained  
saying Ageas valuation was unreasonable and her car should be valued  at its purchase 
price.
Ms D was also unhappy with a number of other aspects of Ageas  service, namely: under the 
policys Vandalism Promise Ageas shouldnt have deducted the excess; because  of Ageas 
handling of her claim she unnecessarily continued  paying her cars road tax until April 2019 
despite the car being a total loss in early  January; and she had personal belongings in her 
car that she wanted  to claim for under  her policy but Ageas didnt ask her about that.
As Ageas didnt  uphold Ms Ds complaint she brought it to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. She felt that Ageas valuation  of the car wasnt reasonable and 
that they had dealt  with Ms D fairly. As Ms D didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 7 May 2020.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain  why.
car valuation
Ms Ds policy  says that if her car is deemed a total loss, Ageas must pay her the 
market value of it at the time of the loss. The starting  point when trying  to establish 
the market value of a car is to look at the industry  accepted trade guides of which  
there are four. The guides  are based on extensive nationwide research  of likely 
selling prices. Ageas looked at three of the guides that valued the car at £3,890, 
£4,519 and £5,660.  They said they reached the £5,088 valuation by averaging the 
two higher valuations (£5,660  + £4,519  / 2). Our adjudicator checked  the four guides 
and said the fourth guide Ageas didnt use returned a valuation  of £4,995.
From lowest  to highest the four guide  valuations were: £3,890, £4,519, £4,995  and 
£5,660. Ms D said given  the significant discrepancies between  the guides, in 
particular the fact that there is almost £1,800  between the lowest and the highest, the 
guides cant be relied on to find her cars  market value. I can understand why Ms D 
felt that way.
But valuing  a car isnt an exact science  and can be difficult. And while the guides  are 
the starting point and our service does tend to follow them,  there are occasions 
where we think a departure from the guides  is reasonable.  After  all, as their name  
Ref: DRN06280912suggests guides are for guidance. We also look at any other  evidence  that is 
available.
A significant piece  of evidence is that Ms D paid £6,800 for her car just over three  
weeks before the loss. And she appears to have bought the car from a reputable 
dealer. Ageas said the purchase  price of Ms Ds car was high because it included a 
six month warranty. But Ive seen the receipt  and the warranty cost £50 which  was in 
addition the £6,800 cost of the car. Ms D also did some research  into similar cars that 
were advertised for sale. She said there were a limited number of cars similar  to hers 
that were for sale. Her car when she bought it had 63,000 miles on the odometer. 
One car she found  had 64,000 miles and that was advertised for £7,490.  Another had 
74,000 miles and was offered for sale at £6,520. The two adverts  Ive referred  to 
were the closest to the car Ms D bought.  And while I do think  dealers inflate 
advertised prices to allow them room for negotiation, I dont think  any discount 
offered would have  been  big enough  to reduce the price of those cars down to the 
valuation Ageas put on Ms Ds car.
And the simple fact remains  that Ms D had paid a higher  price  than Ageas valuation 
just over three weeks earlier. So, given the short time-frame  between Ms D buying 
the car and its loss, I think Ageas should treat the price she paid as an indication of 
the price such vehicles were selling  for and therefore a fair market value. Given the 
significant discrepancies  between the guides  and all the circumstances of this 
complaint, I think its reasonable to depart from using the guides on this occasion. I 
therefore intend to uphold  this part of the complaint. I intend  to require Ageas to pay 
Ms D the difference between £5,088 and £6,800 after deducting the £100 policy  
excess if not already  done so. Ageas should  add simple  interest  to the amount to be 
paid at a rate of 8% a year from the date of loss until payment  is made.
Im aware that this matter has been a source of distress  and inconvenience  for Ms D. 
To address the impact  of that I intend  to require Ageas to pay her £200 
compensation.
the policy excess
Ms Ds policy  said Ageas  would refund her £100  excess in the event her car was 
damaged by vandalism. But the policy expressly  excluded vandalism caused by fire. 
So, Ms D isnt entitled to a refund  of her excess. Im aware that when her previous 
car was damaged  by fire the previous year, Ageas did refund her excess. But they 
did so as a gesture of goodwill and not in accordance with her policy. Im therefore 
not intending to uphold  this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN06280913personal belongings
Ms Ds policy  allows  her to claim up to £150  for personal belongings in her car that 
were lost or damaged during the fire. Ms D was unhappy that Ageas didnt discuss 
that with her. But Ageas said Ms D hadnt claimed  for or told them that she had 
belongings in the car. Ageas said if she wants to make  a claim they will consider it. I 
think thats reasonable. Given  Ms D didnt make Ageas aware that she wanted to 
claim for her belongings I wouldnt have expected them to raise it with her when she 
claimed for the loss of her car. Im therefore not intending to uphold this part of the 
complaint. Finally, Ms D said that the £150  limit for belongings  is too low. Most 
insurance policies  have certain  limitations  such as a maximum amount for a claim for 
belongings. And the £150 limit was explained in the policy documentation when Ms D 
took out the policy. And if she thought that was too low she didn't have to buy the 
policy. So, I cant say Ageas have done anything wrong.
road tax
Ms D said that when her car was destroyed in early January 2019, Ageas should  
have contacted the DVLA and cancelled her road tax which she was paying for in 
instalments out of her bank account.  She said when she made her previous claim the 
year before Ageas did that for her. So, Ms D said she had an expectation that the 
same would happen again.  But because  Ageas  didnt cancel her road tax she paid 
£80 which  she wants Ageas to refund. 
The policy didnt require Ageas to cancel  the road tax in the event the car was a total 
loss. The car remained  Ms Ds property so I think it was her responsibility  to cancel 
the road tax Im therefore not upholding this part of her complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Ms D accepted  my provisional decision.  
Ageas didnt comment.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given Ms D 
accepted my provisional decision  and Ageas didnt comment, my decision remains  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance  
Limited to:
Pay Ms D the difference between £5,088 and £6,800 after deducting  the £100 policy 
excess if not already  done so. Ageas should  add simple  interest  to the amount to be 
paid at a rate of 8% a year from the date of loss until payment  is made.
Pay Ms D £200  compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Ms D has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Ref: DRN06280914Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman
1 If Ageas consider that they are required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Ms D how much they have taken off. They should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0628091