K822xcomplaint
Mrs N complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) lost a cheque  she 
deposited. Its caused her considerable difficulties.
background 
Mrs N said she paid three cheques drawn  on an overseas  bank into her NatWest  account. 
Shed confirmed with the bank itd be okay to do so. But two of the cheques were returned  to 
her without being credited to her account.  And one of the cheques  went missing and it took 
NatWest many months to admit theyd lost the cheque.
Mrs N said shed been put to a lot of inconvenience trying to get the cheque reissued. She 
had to pay an overseas  solicitor to help her. And she was told she would have to return  
overseas to explain why the cheque had not been presented  and needed reissuing. So 
Mrs N wants NatWest to pay for her travel  and extra costs.
NatWest apologised  for the distress and inconvenience caused by the missing cheque. The 
bank explained  itd been unable  to deposit  any of the cheques due to exchange  control. The 
overseas government wouldnt release the funds.  And it then became apparent  one of the 
cheques had been lost while being  returned. 
NatWest said it felt Mrs N wouldve had to make the overseas trip regardless  of whether or 
not the cheque had been lost. The explanation provided by Mrs Ns solicitor  wouldve been 
the same  for all of the cheques Mrs N had tried to deposit. NatWest  offered £200 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. But it wasnt responsible  for the 
reasons the cheques were unpaid. So it couldnt compensate  Mrs N for her travel costs.
Mrs N wasnt satisfied with NatWests response.  So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He felt Mrs N wouldve had to travel overseas whether 
the banks error had occurred or not. She was dealing with her fathers  estate. So he didnt 
feel NatWest should  pay for the trip.
But our investigator felt Mrs N had suffered significant trouble and upset. The missing 
cheque was an important  part of finalising an estate distribution and was for a large  sum of 
money. And having  to deal with NatWests  mistake meant she couldnt concentrate on her 
fathers estate. So he felt the bank should increase the compensation to £400.
 
Mrs N didnt agree. So shes  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. A court  ruling meant 
the payments  had to be made  by cheque.  And shed been told by NatWest it wouldnt be a 
problem to accept  them. Because NatWest couldnt return one of the cheques  a new 
application had to be made.  And the delays were causing considerable difficulties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clearly been a very difficult  time for Mrs N. Shes  dealing with complicated family  matters 
overseas. And she feels NatWests mistakes have caused her unnecessary costs and 
distress. So Ive looked very carefully  at whats happened. And what  NatWest  should do to 
put things right. 
Ref: DRN05074202Mrs N initially  deposited three foreign currency  cheques  into two NatWest accounts. Shed 
been told there wouldnt be a problem. But until the bank presented Mrs Ns cheques  it 
wouldnt necessarily have  been aware of the overseas government restrictions.  NatWest 
contacted Mrs N by letter  and explained it was unable  to process the cheques. Exchange 
control regulations  meant the government wouldnt release the funds out of the country.
But the letter  only referred to two cheques. One had gone missing.  So Mrs N says she was 
unable to return the cheque to the person who issued it and arrange a different method of 
payment. When our investigator spoke to Mrs N she said the issuer was concerned she 
might end up paying twice. So she wouldnt change the payment method. 
Mrs N said she had to return overseas to get a court order  for the money in the missing 
cheque. But it seems NatWest was unable to process any of the cheques. So I think  its likely 
Mrs N wouldve had to travel overseas to resolve  the problem anyway. And she was also 
dealing with her fathers  estate and needed  to return to sort out matters relating to that.
I do appreciate how much  trouble Mrs N has been  through. And I understand Mrs N is 
dealing with a complicated chain of events involving property sales  and family matters. 
But based  on what Ive seen I cant really say her return overseas was a direct result  of 
NatWests actions. Its likely Mrs N wouldve needed to travel  to rearrange the payment of all 
three cheques regardless  of whether one had gone  missing or not. And shes also had to 
travel to deal with her fathers estate. So it wouldnt be fair to hold NatWest  responsible  for 
the costs of her travel or for any issues caused by the delays in clearing the funds.
Mrs N has suffered distress and inconvenience  at a difficult time. So its right that shes 
properly compensated for this. I can see NatWest has agreed  to increase its offer of 
compensation to £400. And I think that better reflects the trouble  and upset Mrs N has been  
put through.  But I wont be asking the bank to pay for the extra costs associated with Mrs Ns 
return overseas. 
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mrs N 
£400 compensation for her trouble  and upset, as it has already  agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0507420