K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
November 2004.  Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr K took the PPI out in a branch of Halifax at the same  time as he took out the credit card.
The policy cost 78p per £100 of Mr Ks outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that balance  for up to 
12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld, but let Mr K know  about an offer 
Halifax made. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the complaint has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to let Mr K know the policy was optional and it had to get his consent before it 
added PPI to his account. Halifax  says it did this, but Mr K says the policy was added without 
his knowledge  or consent.
Halifax has provided a copy of the credit agreement from the time of sale, which  shows that 
PPI was selected in typeface. The rest of the form is also completed in typeface, so I think  
its likely  a discussion took place  between an adviser and Mr K. Mr K has then signed and 
dated the agreement,  so I think Halifax made it clear that Mr K didnt  have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out. Although  given  the length  of time thats passed since 
the sale took place  I can understand  why he cant remember  this.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr K so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him and based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think it was. I say this 
because:
From  the information Ive seen, Mr K was eligible  for the policy.
Mr K was self-employed  at the time of sale,  so Ive thought about whether the policy 
terms would have  made it harder for him to claim than for an employed person. Looking 
at the terms, I dont think Mr K would  have found  it harder to claim and he doesnt appear 
to have been affected by any of the other  things that might have made it harder for him 
to claim on the policy, such as having  a pre-existing medical  condition.
Ref: DRN03585272Mr K told us he would  not have  received  any pay if he was off sick from work due to 
being self-employed. Mr K said that he had life insurance at the time of sale  which 
provides a different type of cover to PPI. But he didnt  have  any other means  to meet  his 
payments if he was too ill to work.  The policy would have paid out in the event that Mr K 
was too ill to work, or if he had a valid unemployment claim and he could have claimed 
again after a requalification period.  So I think the policy could  have been  useful to him.
Halifax also had to give Mr K enough  information  about the policy, so he could decide 
whether it was right for him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.
Mr K has mentioned that he would have wanted to keep costs  low, but I havent seen 
enough to make think the policy was unaffordable for him. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr K paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr K back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr K.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0358527