K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  (MBFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He 
wants to reject the vehicle  and receive  compensation.
background
Mr A tells us he acquired this new vehicle in March 2017 from a Mercedes dealer. He says 
within six months of supply he reported  a fault with the media screen. This involved it 
freezing" or not coming on at all. He says Mercedes has at various times, updated the 
software and replaced the command unit. But the fault has intermittently reappeared 
throughout the time hes had possession  of the vehicle.
MBFS told us that Mr A had first complained about issues with the command  system  in April 
2018. A further  complaint  had been  received in November 2018. It said no faults were 
replicated although software  updates  were  carried out on both occasions.  Following  a further 
complaint it said the dealer had replaced  the command screen. And tested  it over a 
considerable period to ensure the issue was resolved. MBFS said it had also offered a 
goodwill gesture of £250 to Mr A.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 April 2020. Since then Mr A has replied 
to my provisional view and I thank him for his response. No reply has been received from 
MBFS. Mr A said he thought the award of compensation was lower than it should be as he 
wouldnt be receiving the return  of his initial deposit. And that he also felt MBFS and the 
dealer had caused delays  in seeking a resolution.  Ill deal with these issues in my final 
decision which is set out below. But for the reasons Ill explain Im not minded to alter my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been a material change of circumstance since this complaint was first brought to this 
service. The finance  agreement has expired and Mr A has chosen  not to make the optional 
final payment. The vehicle has been returned to MBFS.  Mr A has confirmed that the 
odometer reading was around 44,000 miles.
Mr As hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. MBFS supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly 
-I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
This was a new vehicle  when  acquired  by Mr A. In order  to conform to contract  it was 
required to be of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. The quality of goods comprises 
several different  elements. And with a new item this includes it being  free from minor defects 
and having durability.
Ref: DRN00543852Here the issue of durability is particularly  relevant.  Theres  a dispute as to when Mr A first 
reported faults. He says he advised  the dealer within the first six months of supply. MBFS 
didnt receive a formal  complaint until April 2018.  In the circumstances, Im not persuaded 
that this makes any material difference to my decision. Ill explain why.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The vehicle was sold as a premium model and had a cash price of more  than £36,000. The 
command system controls various  features including phone connectivity;  sat nav; and media  
functions. So if its faulty - even if it doesnt  prevent the car from being  driven  - it affects the 
comfort and enjoyment with which that can be done.
I think most  reasonable  persons  would expect an important component within  a new vehicle 
- even if its not essential - to last longer  than a year before intermittent faults arise. So 
whether the issue  was first identified within six months of supply  or after one year does not, 
in my opinion, change the present  situation to any significant extent.
Im satisfied, on a balance of probabilities that an intermittent problem did exist. And that it was 
ongoing until the agreement ended. Theres no dispute that software updates  were  applied 
when Mr A first complained. And in March 2019 the command unit was replaced.  Its unlikely  a 
dealer would replace this unit unless it felt there  was a fault which required this action.
Within a few days  of the unit being  replaced  Mr A had emailed MBFS to complain the 
problem had reoccurred. But despite  further  software updates Mr A reported the screen  had 
again failed in early July 2019. And he supplied video footage to support this. An email in 
October 2019 report the screen had failed  for the third time since  repairs. The totality  of this 
information leads  me to the conclusion that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality when 
supplied due to not being sufficiently durable.
As Ive considered  the entire history of the vehicle in determining  it wasnt of satisfactory  
quality I think its only fair and reasonable to adopt  a similar approach  as to how things  
should be put right.
When Mr A returned the vehicle at the end of the agreement it had covered the vast majority 
of its contracted  mileage  allowance of 45,000 miles.  I accept this wouldnt have  provided  the 
level of comfort and enjoyment which Mr A wouldve  anticipated at the outset.  But the 
principal purpose of a motor vehicle is to provide transport. And plainly this vehicle was 
mechanically sound. Other features such as media  screens and entertainment features are 
largely ancillary.
Ive concluded  that the fairest way to resolve  this complaint is by awarding  Mr A 
compensation for the impaired use he experienced. Both in terms of the vehicle having to go 
in for repairs  and the reduced level of enjoyment from the ancillary features.  But Im not 
requiring MBFS to return Mr As deposit as the vehicle performed its main function.
With an intermittent fault its not possible to be precise  as to the exact amount of time 
various features  were unavailable. But one of the main sources of irritation and 
inconvenience is the uncertainty itself. And not knowing when and for how long the issue 
might reoccur.
Ref: DRN00543853In considering the issue of compensation I must emphasise that the purpose  of any award  is 
not to punish a business. Its to offer a consumer  redress for any actual financial loss 
incurred as a result of a failing by the business. And, where  appropriate, to make some 
recompense for inconvenience experienced by the consumer.
Here the direct financial loss is in Mr A having  paid for periods when the vehicle wasnt 
available for use. And I think that MBFS should  refund one monthly payment of £403.93  to 
reflect the accumulative time spent on the vehicle  being repaired.
Its less easy to assess the monetary value to be placed upon  loss of an ancillary feature. 
And particularly so when the fault is intermittent.  And any assessment  is inevitably  going to 
be imprecise. Taking into account the fact that the intermittent fault arose  throughout the 
term of the agreement I think £20 per month  is fair and reasonable to reflect the impaired 
enjoyment. Over the 36 month period this amounts to £720.  I shant make a separate  award  
for distress and inconvenience  as Ive taken this into account in reaching this figure.
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint.  And Im awarding Mr A what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable compensation in respect of the loss of use and impaired enjoyment he 
experienced as a result of the intermittent fault. I accept  that Mr A will be disappointed  its 
not more. But as Ive previously stated the vehicle performed its main function to a 
satisfactory standard.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I intend  to require Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited to take the following  action:
1.Refund one monthly payment of £403.93;
2.Pay Mr A £720 compensation for impaired use of the vehicles ancillary  features. This 
figure includes  distress and inconvenience caused. Its not clear  if an earlier offer of 
£250 was paid. If it was it can be deducted from this award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0054385