K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained about Be Wiser Insurance Services  Ltds actions in connection with 
her motor insurance policy.
background
Be Wiser had arranged  motor policies for Mrs J between 2015 and 2018.  But, after renewing 
her policy in 2018, Mrs J found  out that she could  get a cheaper  policy  elsewhere and she 
asked Be Wiser to cancel her existing  policy.  Be Wiser did so and told Mrs J that she still 
owed it around £178.  Mrs J wasn't  happy about that and complained.  As a gesture of 
goodwill Be Wiser reduced  the sum it said Mrs J had to pay to around £74. It then pursued 
her for that sum.
Mrs J brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  that Be Wiser had done 
anything wrong. Mrs J didn't agree so the complaint's been  passed to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Mrs J thinks that Be Wiser didn't  try and find her a competitive quote  and instead  simply 
renewed the policy with her existing insurer. 
As Mrs J knows Be Wiser  is a broker not an insurer. So when its customers  ask it to find a 
quote it approaches its panel of insurers who will provide quotes to Be Wiser. It will then add 
its fees before forwarding the most  competitive quote on to its customer.
But Mrs J doesn't think  Be Wiser did look for quotes from its panel. And Be Wiser hasn't 
been able to provide Mrs J with details of the other  quotes it received when it offered to 
renew her policy in 2018. So Mrs J believes that Be Wiser  didn't bother to look for alternative 
quotes and instead simply offered her the price that her existing insurer  provided.  But given 
my experience of the insurance industry  I don't believe, on balance,  thats  what  happened.
While it would certainly have been helpful if Be Wiser  had kept a record of at least  some  of 
the other quotes  it received to insure Mrs J in 2018, I don't think  the fact Be Wiser didn't 
keep those quotes means it didn't  look for them. Thats because its in Be Wisers interests  
to find the most competitive quotes that it can for its customers, as that way it's more likely to 
retain those  customers business.  Be Wisers told us that given the number of insurers it has 
access to, it only keeps  the most competitive  quotes. And Im not aware  of any requirement  
for a broker  such as Be Wiser to retain  the other  quotes its decided not to offer to the 
consumer. And I don't  find that unreasonable or unfair as in the majority of cases that 
information wont ever be needed again.
Mrs Js said that if Be Wiser  had asked its panel  of insurers for quotes  then at least one of 
those would have  returned a cheaper  quote than the one Be Wiser offered. Im not sure how 
Mrs Js arrived  at that conclusion. But it might be because - when looking at the market  
herself - she found a number of cheaper quotes,  so she thinks that Be Wiser should also 
have been able to find a cheaper quote. But Im not persuaded that's the case.
Ref: DRN00315272While Be Wiser may have many insurers on its panel it won't cover the entire market. So 
there will be other insurers who won't  provide a quote to Be Wiser. And those  insurers might 
be able to offer a cheaper premium.  Also,  its often  the case that policies available  online, 
particularly those sold through comparison websites,  offer introductory  discounts for new 
customers that might not be offered to Be Wiser.  So Be Wiser might not be able to match 
those quotes.
Also Be Wisers provided evidence from 2017  of offering Mrs J a cheaper quote  from a 
different insurer. But on that occasion,  after she changed address,  Be Wiser ran the quotes 
again and offered her a cheaper quote  again  from her existing insurer. And I think  that's 
evidence that it does seek quotes from other insurers and not simply that it quoted Mrs J 
from her current  insurer. So I don't think the fact that Mrs J could find a cheaper quote from 
another provider  herself means that Be Wiser didn't approach its panel of insurers  or that it 
didn't provide Mrs J with the most competitive quote  that was available  to it. 
Mrs Js also unhappy with Be Wisers  response to her complaint and the manner in which  it 
pursued her for the sum outstanding.
In response to Mrs Js complaint Be Wiser reduced  the sum owing by around  £104 to 
£74.10. That wasn't something it had to do, but it did so as a gesture  of goodwill. It told Mrs J 
that if she remained unhappy she could bring her complaint to us. Mrs J didn't do that 
instantly and continued to write to Be Wiser. I can understand that she did so because  she 
wasn't satisfied with Be Wisers reply  to her concerns  and wanted  more information from it. 
But I think Be Wiser  had correctly advised Mrs J of the appropriate  complaints  procedure as 
set out by its regulator (the FCA).  So I don't think it did anything wrong in telling Mrs J that, 
as it had issued  its final response letter, it had closed her complaint.
Mrs J wasn't happy that Be Wiser  continued  to pursue her for the £74 it said she owed 
despite her ongoing complaint. I've noted  that the credit provider - which  enabled Mrs J to 
pay for her policy in instalments  wrote  to Mrs J after Be Wiser had told her it had reduced 
the sum owing to £74. The credit provider said that as Mrs J had cancelled her direct debit 
she needed to pay it around £97. I should  explain that the credit provider is a separate  
business to Be Wiser so Be Wiser  isnt responsible for the credit providers actions. But I 
agree that Be Wiser  should have taken  action to make sure that the credit provider was 
aware of the agreement  to reduce the outstanding amount to £74. Its not clear that Be Wiser 
had taken that action previously. But I've seen that it later confirmed  to Mrs J that this sum 
owed was £74 and that she didn't owe anything extra to the credit provider. And I think  that 
was a reasonable solution in the circumstances.
Mrs J also complained that Be Wiser continued  to pursue her for the outstanding sum even 
though the amount remained in dispute. But while Mrs J wasn't happy with Be Wisers 
response to her complaint, as it had issued its final response letter,  as far as it was 
concerned the matter  was closed and it had advised Mrs J how to take the matter further 
with us if she wanted to. And as I've said above  I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. So Be Wiser was faced with a situation where a customer, Mrs J, owed it 
money; it had responded to a complaint about  that and issued its final response;  but Mrs J 
still hadnt made payment. In those circumstances  I don't think Be Wiser did anything wrong 
in trying to enforce the amount that was owing, even if Mrs J continued to dispute that. 
Otherwise a consumer could avoid paying sums genuinely owed simply by continuing to 
dispute that they were owed or by raising complaints. It follows that I don't think Be Wiser  did 
anything wrong  in taking measures - including referring the file to debt collectors  - to obtain  
the amount owing from Mrs J.
Ref: DRN00315273For completeness I know that Mrs J would  like Be Wiser to repay her the £74 she paid to it 
after cancelling her policy. But I've seen that Be Wiser reduced the actual sum owing by 
around £104.  And I think the £74 it charged Mrs W was reasonable in the circumstances. So 
Im not going  to instruct Be Wiser  to take any further  action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0031527