K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Vitality  Health Limited unfairly and unreasonably  rejected a 
claim under a private health  insurance  policy. They want the claim accepted and future 
continuing treatment  covered.
background
Mr and Mrs S are the beneficiaries of a Vitality group private medical insurance scheme  
taken out by Mr S employer. Mrs S needed  counselling in 2018  as she was anxious; she 
had post traumatic  stress  disorder (PTSD) from 2008 onwards but hadnt needed treatment 
or medical  assistance  with the condition  for over five years before 2018. Mr S said when  he 
contacted Vitality,  he was told there  was cover for this and counselling could be provided 
through its preferred supplier. He also said that he explained Mrs S needed to see a 
specialist near home, and was told if there  wasnt one available through the preferred 
supplier, Mrs S could  see someone who met her needs and claim the money back.
Mrs S did see a counsellor outside  of the preferred supplier and made  a claim. Vitality asked 
for a GP report, which took about three months  to obtain while Mrs S was continuing  with her 
treatment (and paying the fees). The claim was rejected as the counsellor wasnt  from the 
preferred supplier. Mr S accepted that if hed known this earlier, Mrs S still wouldve gone to 
see the specialist  she saw, but felt Vitality hadnt  acted  fairly or reasonably.
Mr S complained to Vitality.  It said that the terms and conditions  of the policy  made it clear 
that treatment had to be authorised in advance, and the consultant  either chosen by Vitality 
or referred  by a Vitality GP or its preferred supplier. Vitality said that Mr S was told in 
September 2018 that the counsellor chosen  by Mrs S wasnt  on its panel, and they had to 
use someone booked  through  its preferred supplier.  It didnt agree that Mr S had been given 
mis-leading information,  and said that there were suitable counsellors available in the local 
area who couldve been selected. Vitality  also said that Mrs S counsellor could register  with 
the preferred supplier, but treatment wouldnt be retrospectively covered.
Mr S complained to us. The investigators view was that the policy  terms and conditions  
made it clear  that only treatment from a recognised provider would be covered  and this was 
what Mr S was told when he called Vitality. He also said Vitality  did tell Mr S that if the 
counsellor registered with it, treatment carried  out before registration wouldnt be covered, 
and that Mrs S had to go through  the preferred supplier. The investigator said Vitality had 
shown that there were  suitable counsellors in the area available  through the preferred 
supplier and didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr S felt Vitality was hiding behind the wording of the policy and wanted  an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN05903262Ive looked at the wording of the policy, and it clearly says due to the type of policy  chosen  
by Mr S employer, the counsellor must be chosen by Vitality  or its preferred supplier, or 
picked by a Vitality GP. A counsellor who isnt registered with Vitality isnt covered. This is 
repeated in the claim form completed by Mr S.
I also listened to Mr S call with Vitality. I dont think he was given mis-leading information.  I 
note that when Mr S first contacted Vitality,  Mrs S had already chosen her counsellor, but 
hadnt started treatment.  Mr S was told that the counsellor wasnt  registered with Vitality  and 
he had to go through the preferred supplier. Mr S was also told that if there  was no suitable 
counsellor in the local area, it would be possible for the chosen counsellor to be registered,  
but no treatment  carried  out before registration  would  be covered. In my view,  it was clear 
that registration and use of the preferred supplier was required to be covered by the policy.
I note that Vitality was willing to fund one course  of treatment, even though  arguably  Mrs S is 
suffering from a chronic condition. This is fair and reasonable, but it doesnt mean  that the 
costs of treatment from a non-approved  counsellor  should be covered.
Mr S complains that Vitality  shouldve told him later that the counsellor wasnt  registered.  But 
the focus of those conversations  was about the GP report and Vitality  had already  made  the 
position clear. I dont think it acted unfairly  or unreasonably in rejecting the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 6 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0590326