K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the way in which Kennet Financial Services  LLP charged 
advisor fees. They also complain about  poor advice  in connection  with inheritance  tax (IHT) 
planning.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 December 2019.  A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A and forms part of this final decision.
In response to my provisional findings  Mr B clarified the particular  inheritance tax (IHT)  query 
hed wanted Kennets advice on  this being as to the IHT position  should he gift £1m to his 
children. Mr B maintained that if Kennets advice was wrong, it should refund the annual fee 
in full.
Kennet provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr B in July 2018, following the meeting it had 
with him in June  2018. The copy letter included Mr Bs handwritten notes.  Kennet said that 
Mr B hadnt  made any notes against  the IHT section of the letter.  It considered that if Mr B 
was unhappy  with the IHT advice hed received during the meeting he wouldve noted  this on 
the letter. 
Kennet said it didnt  consider the suggested  compensation was fair.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says the IHT point he wanted  advice on was the tax position  if he left £1m to his 
children and the remainder of his estate to his wife.
Ive reviewed this in light of the information circulated before the meeting in June 2018, Mr 
Bs notes  on Kennets July 2018  letter and his email to Kennet dated 13 August 2018.  
From what  Ive seen, I remain of the view that IHT was due to be discussed during the 
meeting between Mr B and Kennet, and that its likely Mr Bs particular query was raised 
during the course of that discussion. I cant see that Kennet confirmed its advice on the 
particular point in its July 2018 letter  rather it focussed on a more  general IHT situation 
utilising both Mr and Mrs Bs allowances. And as I set out in my provisional decision, 
although the way this was worded was somewhat confusing, that advice  doesnt  appear to 
have been wrong.  
I accept that Mr B didnt  press the point  in his initial response to that letter,  although Im 
mindful that he responded with informal notes  written on the letter. I think Mr Bs email to 
Kennet of 13 August 2018 made  it clear  that hed been expecting advice on the particular 
point hed raised, and this wasnt  forthcoming  in written form
And as there is no documented record  of what was said,  I cant  know  whether the advice 
was right or wrong. For example, certain  time periods apply to monetary gifts which can 
mitigate or remove altogether a liability to IHT. So its possible that theres been verbal 
miscommunication on the particular IHT point Mr B wished to have clarified  and this would 
Ref: DRN09891402be consistent with the confusing wording  of the more  general IHT advice. Either way, I think  
that the business should refund some of the fee Mr and Mrs B paid to it.
But I do also still think it wouldve been  reasonable for Mr B to put the point he wanted 
clarifying in writing to Kennet. I understand that he became frustrated  with the responses  
given up to that point, but Im not persuaded that the business had an opportunity  to give a 
formal response,  which would  have  set out a documented position, before Mr B ended the 
relationship.
As I also said in the provisional decision, the service provided to Mr and Mrs B wasnt 
restricted to IHT advice. And so follows that I dont think it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
direct Kennet to refund the full annual  fee. 
But I still remain mindful that Kennet hadnt told Mr and Mrs B about the change to the basis  
for paying the annual fee, and that Mrs B didnt receive a separate report  following her 
meeting with Kennet in June 2018.  So even though I think  its unfortunate that the 
relationship ended without the business formally responding on the IHT point in question, I 
can see why Mr and Mrs B lost confidence in Kennet. 
As such,  I still think its reasonable for Kennet to pay £200 in addition to the refund it has 
already made. This reflects the lack of clarity on the IHT issues,  the failure to inform them  
that the fee basis had changed,  and that Mrs B didnt receive  a separate  report.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Kennet  Financial Services LLP to 
pay £200 to Mr and Mrs B, in addition  to the £250  it has already refunded to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09891403APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way in which Kennet Financial Services LLP charged advisor  fees. 
They also complain about poor advice in connection with inheritance tax (IHT)  planning.
background
Mr and Mrs B made their original pension  arrangements with Kennet in 2013. They paid an annual fee 
of £1,500  to Kennet for an ongoing review  of their investments. 
Mr and Mrs B moved their funds to self-invested pension  plans (SIPPs) with a new provider in 2017. 
In August 2018 Mr B discovered that the annual fee was being deducted from the pension funds  at a 
monthly charge of £125. He complained because Kennet hadnt told him that the basis for paying the 
fee had changed from annual  to monthly.
Kennet refunded advice  fees of £250 it had received after Mr and Mrs B ended their relationship with 
it. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs 
B had agreed to pay the yearly fee of £1,500 in 2017. He accepted that Kennet hadnt explained  this 
would be paid monthly rather than annually,  but he didnt  consider  this justified upholding  the 
complaint. 
In response, Mr B said he wasnt willing to pay the fee because he didnt think Kennets service had 
been good enough. In particular,  he said Kennet had given  advice on IHT planning  that was wrong. 
He also said Mrs B hadnt received confirmation of Kennets advice  following her financial  review 
meeting in 2018. 
A second adjudicator  reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He accepted that Kennets  IHT advice  may 
have been wrong, but he said Mr and Mrs B hadnt suffered any loss because  they hadnt acted on 
the advice. He also found that Mr and Mrs B had ended their relationship  with Kennet before it had a 
chance to formally confirm  its advice. 
Overall, he wasnt persuaded  that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
There are two central issues in this complaint  that of the annual  fee being changed  to a monthly 
arrangement, and whether any fee is justified  at all for the last year they paid given  Mr and Mrs Bs 
belief that the IHT advice they received  was wrong.
Ive reviewed the documentation from the time Mr and Mrs B arranged  their SIPPs in 2017.  This 
includes the SIPP application form, Kennets Services  and payment agreement and the letter it 
provided to Mr and Mrs B when theyd applied for the policies.
Ref: DRN09891404From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the documentation was clear enough to make Mr and Mrs B 
aware that the ongoing  annual fee was to be paid in addition to the set-up costs for the SIPPs.  
Although Ive also noted  Kennets  assertion that when the SIPPs were  established,  this cost £1,750. It 
said that, taking into account  the £1,500 which  would  otherwise have been paid for the annual  fee, Mr 
and Mrs B effectively paid just £250 for the SIPP set up.
Kennets letter  refers to the ongoing annual fee at anniversary of each policy.  I accept this suggests  
the fee would be paid annually,  rather than monthly. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr and Mrs B 
suffered any loss when the payments changed from annual to monthly. But as Kennet failed to clarify  
the change in the fee arrangement, I can see why Mr and Mrs B may have been unhappy when  they 
discovered that the basis for payment of the fee had changed.
Mr and Mrs B also consider  the fee for 2018  should be refunded because  Kennet gave them  IHT 
advice that was wrong. There were also other service  issues  that meant they lost confidence in 
Kennet. They  felt they had no choice  but to find another adviser, for which  theyve had to pay 
additional fees.
Mr and Mrs B met with Kennets adviser  in June 2018. I understand the meetings  were  held 
separately because Mr and Mrs Bs financial situations were different.
The agenda items circulated  before the meetings indicate that IHT planning  was to be discussed. Mr 
B says he queried  a particular point about IHT during  his meeting, but didnt think the advisers reply  
was correct. The adviser said he would check the point, and Mr B expected this to be covered  in the 
report sent by the adviser following the meeting. 
Mr B made his own enquiries about the IHT point and satisfied himself  that the information  Kennets  
adviser had given in the meeting was wrong. 
Mr B received a report of the meeting in July 2018, but it didnt mention the specific IHT point 
Kennets adviser had said he would  check. Mr and Mrs B decided to end their relationship with 
Kennet at that point.
From what Ive seen and been told, it seems the specific IHT point Mr B asked  about in the June 2018 
meeting arose from the wider IHT planning points that were identified  for discussion before that 
meeting. I accept that if Kennet  wasnt able to properly answer the question during the meeting,  it 
shouldve covered  this in its subsequent report. 
Kennet has said that it stands by the IHT advice  given. And so Ive looked at the specific commentary  
on IHT issues  set out in writing. The first bullet under the heading  IHT Mitigation Planning says the 
following:
In answer  to your query there is no IHT in the event of your death  and not (Mrs Bs). IHT is 
only applicable on your death.
Mr B has quoted only the first part of the sentence in support of his complaint   there  is no IHT in the 
event of your death. But if the second part of the same sentence is included,  it implies  that Mrs B has 
survived him and the spousal nil rate band  transfer has occurred. 
And as the business has said that this letter was addressing both Mr and Mrs Bs financial situation, 
the second reference to your death  may refer to Mrs B. it seems unlikely to me that it could refer to 
Mr B, given that in this scenario, Mr B has already  predeceased Mrs B.
In this situation,  the advice appears to be correct - no IHT would be immediately payable. This would 
only be payable  on Mrs Bs death.
Ref: DRN09891405The later bullets then set out the situation  for the children  once this has happened. And what the 
adviser has done is simply subtract the £1m joint nil band (comprised of the two nil rate bands and 
residential allowances) from the total liability, leaving the remainder  taxable. 
There is no mention here of the specific point Mr B had raised about IHT mitigation.  Which leads me 
to believe that the more  general position was being set out here. But I do think  the first bullet in 
particular could have  been better  set out. It was in my view quite confusing. 
And when  the specific point wasnt  covered  in Kennets report,  Mr B made  his own enquiries 
elsewhere and then ended the relationship  with the business.
 
Im mindful that Mr and Mrs B had already discovered  Kennet hadnt  told them the basis of their fee 
payments had changed.  So when Mr B didnt receive  written advice  on the specific IHT query  hed 
raised, I can understand why his trust in Kennet began to waver.  But in the circumstances  I think it 
might have been reasonable for Mr B to raise the specific IHT issue  again, perhaps in writing. This 
wouldve given Kennet an opportunity to provide a formal response to the point he wanted to clarify. 
As it was, Mr and Mrs B ended their relationship with Kennet before the business  had a chance to 
formally respond  on the specific point.  
But Kennets  efforts on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf certainly  werent restricted to IHT matters.  They 
covered many different aspects of their financial planning. So even if Mr and Mrs B were dissatisfied  
with the initial information relating to IHT, Im not persuaded  this means  it should refund  all of the 
annual fee Mr and Mrs B paid for 2018. 
Kennet has said its report to Mr B sent after the June 2018 meeting covered  Mrs B too, because the 
issues raised were similar. But as Ive already  said, I understand Mr and Mrs B held separate  
meetings with Kennets adviser because their financial situations  were different. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mrs B to expect her own report following the meeting.
Mr Bs report was addressed to him alone. So I dont think it wouldve been  immediately obvious  to 
him and Mrs B that the report was also relevant  to Mrs B  this should also have been clarified by the 
business
 
So overall, from what Ive seen, I accept that some of Kennets  service  may have fallen short of what  
Mr and Mrs B could reasonably expect. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded  this 
means Kennet should refund  all of the annual  fee they paid for 2018.
I think  its reasonable  for Kennet  to pay some  compensation to Mr and Mrs B for failing  to confirm in 
writing its advice on Mr Bs specific  IHT query, for failing  to send a report to Mrs B confirming her 
meeting with Kennet in June  2018, and for its failure to notify then that the annual fee was now being  
taken monthly. I understand that it has already  refunded  £250 to them, but I consider a further £200 
would be appropriate  in this instance to reflect the above issues. I think this is proportionate, given the 
circumstances of the case.
Ive also noted that, stemming  from their dissatisfaction with the IHT advice they received, Mr and Mrs 
B have raised wider concerns about the quality  of the advice  received throughout their relationship 
with the business. My understanding is that their new adviser will be reviewing their finances and 
providing an opinion on this. This service deals with complaints about specific errors made by 
financial businesses,  which can include instances of alleged poor advice, but we arent  able to provide 
a general checking service  for advice received. 
Therefore, should Mr and Mrs B have specific concerns about advice theyve received, and dont 
consider the response  from the business  to be satisfactory, theyll be able to bring those complaints to 
this service.
Ref: DRN09891406my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I intend to direct Kennet Financial 
Services LLP should pay £200 to Mr and Mrs B, in addition to the £250 it has already refunded to 
them.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0989140