K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Andrew Morton & Co Ltd, an appointed representative (AR) of Best 
Practice IFA Group Limited (Best Practice), acted  wrongly and out of line with the 
instructions provided  in investing in a number of high-risk shares. He also believes that Best 
Practice has failed to exercise due care in monitoring  its advisors  activities,  as he was not 
allowed to carry out the activities complained about.
background 
In April 2010 Best Practice recommended that Mr M transfer his Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) to another  provider  and invest in its cash fund to protect him from the volatility  in the stock  
market, with a view to later reinvestment as and when this became advantageous.  At the time of 
the advice a fact find was completed,  Mr Ms circumstances were recorded  as follows:
Married
Self-employed
Income of £5,000
Monthly expenditure of £1,100
The only asset  listed other than his primary residence was an ISA valued at £4,000
His attitude to risk was recorded as adventurous. It was noted that Mr M had £4,000 to 
invest and that he needed an emergency fund of £5,000.
The adviser issued  a suitability report confirming his thoughts and recommendations in 
respect of the transfer of Mr Ms ISA. Amongst other  things the report  said:
Your ISA needs attention, in my opinion. As we discussed, I have discounted 
switching funds within [name of Mr Ms existing  ISA provider] because of the problems 
associated with the poverty of fund management over the past 3 years  in particular. 
Your investment is underperforming badly in comparison to its peer  group, especially 
when compared  to the same investment sector held via [name of new ISA provider]. In 
simple terms it has already lost a lot of its former value
And 
On this basis you are prepared to accept some volatility  in this ISA investment if that 
will bring with it the potential for above  average  returns over time, i.e. 5 years  or 
possibly longer  hopefully  better returns than the fund currently held with [name of 
existing ISA provider] .
And
I recommended  [name  of new ISA provider]  and their platform  as my favoured  
alternative for your ISA investment  after re-registration the investment balance is to 
be switched into Cash.
You agreed  with me, that whilst you had a balanced  attitude towards risk and reward  you 
are now prepared to accept volatility in this part of your investments, [name of existing ISA 
provider] is out with the more acceptable norm (as regards poor performance and 
volatility, albeit that past performance is not necessarily a guide to the future).
Ref: DRN03228272And 
I recommended  re-registering your ISA with [name of new ISA provider] and then 
switching to the Cash Fund. The investment objective of the [name of new ISA 
provider] Cash Fund  is to provide a temporary  home for your ISA investment Fund 
before investing  again  in another collective  investment fund. The fund is managed by 
[name of new ISA provider] and represents cash held on deposit. It is a safe haven 
from current market volatility   specifically  in a downward direction.
The choice of this Cash Reserve is a tactical move  vindicated by the low value of 
your investment.

The principal  reason for my recommendation of the [name of new ISA provider] Cash  
Fund is centred on the change in the nature of the Global economy  over the last 
twelve months, i.e. the Credit Crunch, continuing high  real interest  rates, rising 
inflation  especially gas, oil and other commodity prices  especially food.
Given the recent volatility of stock  markets around the world, specifically in a 
downward direction,  I believe  that the fund choice listed above is a comparatively 
advantageous strategy   volatility  has paid dividends (in comparison to your current 
investment with [name of existing ISA provider] ).
Mr M accepted the recommendation and in May 2010  just over £4,000 was transferred into 
his new ISA.
Over the next month  the adviser purchased holdings in three investments:
ETFS Daily Leveraged Gold (LBUL)  12 May 2010
Xcite NPV ords (XEL)  14 May 2010
Insynergy Absolute India A GBP (Acc)   4 June 2010
Later the adviser  sold the holdings in ETFS Daily  Leveraged Gold  (LBUL) and Insynergy 
Absolute India  A GBP  (Acc) and invested more  in Xcite NPV ords (XEL).
In October  2014 Mr M closed the account.  The balance  was around £700.
After this, Mr M complained to Best Practice.  It responded  saying that there was no evidence 
of advice being given in relation to the transactions complained about. Because  of this, it 
appeared that the adviser had in fact been discretionary managing the portfolio,  which he 
was not authorised to do. As a result, it did not think that it could be held responsible  for the 
activities complained  about.
Unhappy with this response Mr M referred  his complaint to our service. Best Practice said 
that the adviser was acting outside  the scope of his permissions and that it could  not be held 
responsible for his actions.
I sent my provisional decision to Mr M and Best Practice on 20 September  2019 explaining 
why I thought this complaint was one we could consider and why it should  be upheld.  I have 
attached my provisional  findings; these form part of this decision. I said that I would  consider  
Ref: DRN03228273anything either party  wanted to add. Mr M did not make any further  submissions.  Best 
Practice disagreed  with the decision,  in summary, it said:  
It strongly refutes that it is responsible for any unauthorised activities  that the AR undertook. 
The commission statements obtained  showed  an incorrect  address for Best Practice, so 
these were  not received. Even if these had been  received  these would have been 
submitted to the remunerations  team, who would have logged it  but, the transaction  
itself would not have been  reviewed as this was not within  that teams remit. 
In turn, it challenges our argument  that it would have known and been able to identify  
what funds the client was being invested in. In an ideal environment each commission 
statement would be reviewed to check whether  the funds the commission  was paid from 
were agreed by the client   but, to suggest  that that is possible is not fair or reasonable.
It is a significant leap to suggest  that the complaint encompasses  the advice to transfer  
the ISA. If the transfer had gone ahead as set out in the suitability letter,  it would not 
have resulted in a loss as it would have  been invested in a cash fund as a safe haven.
The adviser was suspended in 2011 and Mr M changed servicing adviser  on the account 
in July 2012, so the redress calculation should only be worked out up until that point.  
In other cases against it in relation to this ARs advice  we have reached different outcomes. 
I reviewed the submissions and concluded that it would be fair and reasonable to change the 
redress methodology. I wrote to Mr M and Best Practice  setting  out that I thought  the redress  
calculation should  be run up to the point when a new adviser was appointed. Interest should 
be added  from that point on any loss established  at a rate of 8% simple per year up until the 
date of settlement.  
Neither party made any additional  comments in response to this. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached, this case has been passed back to me for review.
the AR agreement
The agreement between Andrew  Morton & Co Ltd and Best Practice sets out, in so far as 
relevant that:
APPOINTMENT
The Principal warrants for the purposes of the Act, it is an Authorised Person and as 
such appoints the Appointed  Representative to be an Appointed Representative of the 
Principal in accordance with the purposes set out in 6.1 of this Agreement (but for no 
other purpose).
And 
6. The appointed representatives  obligations
6.1 The Appointed Representative shall on behalf  of the Principal undertake  such  of 
the following  activities as the Principal may require and for which the Principal accepts 
responsibility PROVIDED ALWAYS the Business is notified to the Principal within  30 
days of the date of sale and falls within the categories for which the Principal  has 
authorisation under the FSA rules and the act as notified to the Appointed 
Representative by the Principal from time to time, namely: -
Ref: DRN032282746.1.1 seek Clients for investment business  on behalf of the Principal, advise Clients  
about entering into investment agreements on behalf of the Principal, sell investments 
other than real property  investments and time shares, exercise  rights  conferred by an 
investment (whether issued by the Principal or connected persons or not).
6.1.2 seek Clients and undertake to advise  Clients on all such  other aspects of non 
investment business,  private health  cover  and medical benefits, mortgage  advice, 
insurance, pension,  trusts, tax advice, financial planning, term assurance,  long term 
care plans or any other  business as the Principal may from time to time require or 
permit, but at all times in accordance with any restrictions or prohibitions as the third 
party product provider and/or Principal shall impose, and as the Principal shall deem fit 
(and the Appointed Representative agrees to accept  such restrictions and 
prohibitions);

exemption of ARs
The Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000  (FSMA) says under Article 19, The general
prohibition, that:
(1)No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom,  or purport to 
do so, unless he is
(a)an authorised person;  or
(b) an exempt person.
(2) The prohibition  is referred to in this Act as the general prohibition.
Article 39 of FSMA sets out the exemption  of ARs to the above, in so far as relevant,  it says:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised person) 
(a)is a party  to a contract  with an authorised  person (his principal) which 
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b)is someone for whose  activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition  in relation  to any regulated activity comprised 
in the carrying  on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.
The business for which an AR can be exempt is set out in FSMA 2000  (Appointed  
Representatives) Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 1217) this includes advising on investments 
and arranging deals  in investments but not managing investments.
Ref: DRN03228275managing investments
Regulated Activities  Order Article 37:
37. Managing  assets belonging to another person, in circumstances involving the 
exercise of discretion, is a specified kind of activity if
(a)the assets consist of or include any investment which is a security or a contractually 
based investment;  or
(b)the arrangements for their management  are such  that the assets may consist of or 
include such investments,  and either the assets  have  at any time since 29th April 
1988 done so, or the arrangements  have at any time (whether before or after that 
date) been held out as arrangements under which the assets would do so.
PERG 2.7.8G provides  guidance on this:
The regulated activity of managing investments includes several  elements.
1.First, a person must exercise discretion. Non-discretionary portfolio management 
(where the manager buys and sells, as principal or agent,  on the instructions of some 
other person) is not caught by this activity,  although  it may be caught by a different 
regulated activity such as the activity of dealing  in investments as principal  or dealing 
in investments as agent. The discretion must  be exercised  in relation to the 
composition of the portfolio under management  and not in relation to some other 
function (such as proxy  voting) carried on by the manager.
2.Second, the property that is managed must belong beneficially  to another  person. 
This excludes from the regulated  activity  the management by a person of his own 
property. But discretionary management  of assets  by a person acting in his capacity 
as trustee will be caught even though he is the legal  owner of the assets.
3.Third, the property that is managed  must consist of (or include) securities or 
contractually based investments. Alternatively, discretionary management will 
generally be caught if it is possible that the property could  consist of or include such  
securities or investments. This is the case even if there never has been any 
investment in securities or contractually  based investments, as long as there  have 
been representations that there  would be.
my findings
I have looked  at all of the information provided  by both parties  in order to decide  whether this 
complaint is one we can consider. Having done so, I remain  of the view that the complaint is 
one we can and should consider. I have then reconsidered all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. I 
have addressed each point in turn below.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN03228276Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision cover a number of different points and arguments. 
I have broken these  down  into the below topics and addressed these in turn. As I have 
explained above, my provisional findings  are attached and form part of this decision   a 
number of the arguments raised by Best Practice in response to my provisional decision 
cover issues  that I have already considered and addressed within  that decision, so I have  
not repeated my findings in respect  of all of these  at length again. 
Best Practice has suggested  that the approach taken in this case is inconsistent with the 
approach we have  taken  on other similar cases.  I cannot comment on the individual  merits of 
other cases within this decision.  I have taken into account Best Practices comments and I 
am satisfied  that the conclusions I have reached are fair and reasonable in light of the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint.
Complaint 
Best Practice disagrees that Mr Ms complaint encompasses the advice to transfer. Our 
remit is inquisitorial and informal.  This allows me to look at the complaint in the round and I 
think the complaint  does  reasonably encompass the advice to transfer. 
The complaint as expressed by Mr M, amongst other things, says: 
In May 2010  I allowed  him to transfer funds held in an ISA of £4,307.27 to an 
investment platform with [name of investment platform]. I am not an experienced 
investor and entirely  trusted [name of AR] to act in my best interests as my adviser.  
However this was not the case.
Once the ISA was transferred the adviser  went about making the investments that are the 
focus of Mr Ms complaint. I think that the transfer  was recommended for the purpose of 
making such investments   and, that but for the transfer, these investments would not have 
gone ahead. So, I do not think that I can reasonably consider the investments made in 
isolation and I think that the loss does  stem  from the transfer of the ISA. 
The suitability letter suggested that the monies transferred would initially  go into a cash  fund 
(although the letter  does  suggest that this was only intended to be a short-term solution  prior 
to the adviser  investing the money  at an advantageous time). This is not what happened.  
Two of the investments  were made  within a couple  of days  of the fund that was transferred 
in being encashed and the third was made a few weeks later.  
Responsibility 
The advice to transfer the ISA is advice for which Best Practice  has accepted  responsibility.  I 
remain of the view that in recommending the transfer of Mr Ms ISA it is more likely  than not 
that the adviser intended on making such investments as those subsequently made despite 
what it says in the suitability letter. I find it unlikely that the adviser suddenly changed his 
mind when the monies became available  and decided  to take an entirely different route to 
that which he had previously had in mind.  
Ref: DRN03228277We can consider Best Practices  ARs  advice to Mr M to transfer his ISA  this was a 
regulated activity and one for which Best Practice had accepted responsibility. That advice 
was inextricably linked to the subsequent  investments  made. Even if I were to conclude the 
ARs actions   after the ISA was transferred and the monies became available  amounted  
to unauthorised investment management,  this would not change  the fact that we can 
consider the advice to transfer the ISA for these investments to be made. 
As referenced in my provisional decision,  in relation  to situations where part of a transaction 
is regulated and part of it is not the judge in TenetConnect Services Limited v Financial 
Ombudsman and another  [2018] EWHC  459 (admin) said:
"The FSMA intended that regulated activity,  and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction should be 
part of a financial service  consumers protection. The legislative provisions  should  be 
construed so that, if part of what is done as a single activity is regulated, the whole  is 
regulated rather than the other way round. Otherwise, the regulated part loses the 
protection which the FSMA  requires that it should  have. If to accord that protection,  
aspects which by themselves would not be regulated are brought  into the protective scope 
of regulation and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction,  those  giving advice  will have to make  
sure that their regulated and unregulated activities are separated,  rather  than using the 
unregulated to escape the consequences of intermingling  them  with the regulated."
It is possible that the advisers later actions amounted to the activity of managing  
investments and that that activity fell outwith the scope of authority given to Best Practices 
AR. I have not made a finding in relation to this because, in line with the above, I think we 
can consider this complaint against  Best Practice despite this. 
Commission 
I have taken into account what Best Practice has said about it not receiving commission  
notes and that, even if these  had been  received it would not be practical  or reasonable to 
expect these to be reviewed (in terms of suitability) by the remuneration team. I have not 
made any finding in respect of this; my findings  in relation to Best Practices responsibility  for 
Mr Ms losses are not based  on its receipt  of commission notes. 
The suitability of the advice
Based on what I have seen, Mr Ms circumstances  and investment experience do not point 
to him being  a high-risk investor. The language used in the suitability report is not clear  in 
describing the approach to be taken or the level of volatility  Mr M would need to be willing to 
accept in taking  an adventurous  approach. In any case, Mr M did not have  the capacity for 
loss to justify taking an adventurous approach to investing his savings. 
I consider that the investments made  were  unsuitable and, in turn, that the advice to transfer 
the ISA in order to make  such investments  was unsuitable. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances a considerably more cautious  approach would have been suitable for him. It 
has not been suggested in response to my provisional decision that Mr M was likely to have 
become an insistent client or otherwise  disregarded suitable advice  but, for the sake  of 
completeness, I have considered this and I think it is more likely than not that Mr M would 
have followed suitable advice. So I find that, if suitable advice had been given, Mr M would 
not have ended up invested in the investments which have  resulted in Mr M suffering the 
financial loss about which he complains.  
Ref: DRN03228278Summary
I have mostly focused on the points raised in response to my provisional decision within this 
decision. As I have  said above, my provisional findings are attached  and form part of this 
decision. For the sake of the completeness, in summary, I have found that: 
The activities that are the subject  of this complaint amount to the regulated activities  of: 
advising on investments, arranging deals in investments  and possibly managing investments. 
The complaint encompasses the advice to transfer the ISA and that advice fell within the 
scope of authority given to the adviser   or, in other words, is business for which Best 
Practice accepted  responsibility. 
The subsequent investments made  were  sufficiently closely  linked to the advice to 
transfer and I can consider the advice to transfer,  even if I were to conclude  that the 
adviser went  on to act outwith the scope of authority.  
The transfer advice was quite confused in terms of the assessment of Mr Ms attitude to 
risk and the investment strategy  to be employed  and, what  actually happened is 
different from what was set out in the suitability letter. 
The investments made were not suitable for Mr M. 
The advice  to transfer with the intention of making such  investments was unsuitable.
The investments made and the losses Mr M suffered  stem  from the unsuitable transfer 
advice, so it is reasonable  for Best Practice to compensate  Mr M for his losses  in full. 
Having reached  these findings,  I have  gone  on to set out what  I consider to be fair 
compensation under the circumstances.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr M as close as possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been  
given unsuitable  advice. 
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Ms circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Best  Practice  do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Best Practice must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
Best Practice should  also pay interest  as set out below.
Pay to Mr M £300 for the distress caused by the loss of a large proportion of his savings.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN03228279investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Monies 
transferred  
into the 
ISA 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income  
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other  half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate servicing 
rights 
transferred  to 
new IFA 
(away from 
Best Practice) 8% simple  
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Best Practice 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Best Practice totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of 
deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
oSuitable advice  would have been for Mr M to invest in a way that allowed for capital 
growth with a small risk to his capital.
oThe average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
Ref: DRN032282710oThe FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
oI consider that a suitable risk profile for Mr M was in between, in the sense that he 
was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean  
that Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective  and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Best Practice IFA Group Limited  should  pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Best Practice IFA Group Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019. 
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN032282711COPY OF PROVISIONAL FINDINGS
I have looked at all of the information provided by both parties  in order to decide whether this 
complaint is one we can consider. And, having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we 
can consider.  Ive then considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have addressed each point  in turn below.
Whilst I have  taken everything  submitted by both parties into account,  my decision focuses  on what I 
consider to be the central issues. The purpose of this decision is not to address  every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.
jurisdiction
Our jurisdiction is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys  handbook. These rules  are referred  to 
as DISP.
DISP 2.3.1R says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint  under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities  (other than auction regulation  bidding); 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried  on by the firm in connection with them.
And
DISP 2.3.3G, which is guidance for the interpretation of our compulsory jurisdiction, says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firm
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firm has accepted responsibility).
Under section  39(3) of FSMA:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So, for me to conclude  that this is a complaint that we can consider I need to consider  three 
questions:
1.What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
2.Were the acts about  which  Mr M complains done in the carrying  on of a regulated  activity, or 
an ancillary activity  carried on in connection  with a regulated  activity?
3.Were those  acts the acts of the principal firm, Best Practice ?
Ref: DRN032282712What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
In order  to decide whether we can or cannot consider  a complaint it is necessary  first to decide  what  
the subject of this complaint  is. Mr Ms complaint arises from the investment losses he suffered.  Mr M 
described his complaint as being that the AR acted recklessly  and beyond  instruction by investing 
money in risky shares  and, that Best Practice failed  to exercise due care and diligence in 
overseeing the ARs activities.
In Mr Ms complaint  letter to Best Practice he sets out, amongst other things,  that:
Between October 2009 and July 2012 I was a client of [full name  of AR] who worked as part 
of your company providing  Financial Advice.
In May 2010  I allowed him to transfer funds held in an ISA of £4,307.27 to an investment 
platform with [name  of investment platform]. I am not an experienced investor  and entirely 
trusted [name of AR] to act in my best interests as my adviser. However this was not the case.
The complaint focuses  on the high risk investments made but I think  it is broader than just the trades 
the AR made on Mr Ms behalf.  Mr M was advised to transfer his existing ISA, in line with his 
complaint, Mr M went ahead with this because he believed that the AR would  invest  his ISA in a 
suitable manner   instead,  the AR made a number  of high risk investments.
It is clear that the transfer  from the existing  ISA and the investments subsequently made  were  closely 
related  in that the first part of that overall  arrangement was recommended  to allow the second part 
to take place.
Taking all of this into account, I think that the complaint encompasses the advice  to transfer the ISA 
and the investments subsequently made.
Were the acts about which  Mr M complains  done  in the carrying on of a regulated activity,  or 
an ancillary activity  carried on in connection  with a regulated activity?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO) and include arranging deals in investments (article 25 RAO) advising on investments (article 53 
RAO) and managing assets belonging  to another  person, in circumstances involving the exercise of 
discretion (article 37 RAO).
The AR advised Mr M to transfer  the funds from his ISA to another  provider  and, initially,  invest  in its 
cash fund. Once the funds were in place  the adviser  continued to invest  the funds  in three different 
holdings. Later, two of the holdings were  sold and the monies were  reinvested in the third holding.
Mr M then complained about the losses he suffered as a result of the investments made upon the 
transfer of his ISA.
It is not in dispute that the adviser carried out these activities.  So, I think that the adviser undertook 
the activity of advising  on investments in respect of the transfer  of the ISA.
Once the ISA was in place, Mr M has confirmed  that the adviser was not discussing the transactions  
with him prior to making the relevant investments.  The adviser was arranging for the buying  and 
selling of investments. In turn, it is possible that the advisers actions also amounted to the regulated 
activity of managing investments once the ISA was in place.
Overall, I am satisfied that the adviser undertook a number of regulated activities  in connection with 
the subject of this complaint.
Ref: DRN032282713Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, Best Practice?
For Best Practice to be responsible for the relevant activities undertaken by the adviser, at least  part 
of the transaction has to have fallen  within  the scope  of the authority provided to the adviser by 
means of the agreement  between  him and Best Practice.
Best Practice  has said that the relevant  activities undertaken by the adviser,  in respect of the 
complaint raised, amounted to discretionary  management, which  it says the adviser was not 
authorised to do under  its agreement with the AR.
Under the agreement the adviser was authorised  to undertake  a number of activities, listed in detail 
above, including:  advising  on and making  arrangements in investments. But, it does not include 
managing investments.
As I have set out above, it is possible that what the adviser did once the ISA was in place amounted  
to managing investments   but, in this instance, I do not think  that this, in and of itself,  means that 
Best Practice  is not responsible for the complaint raised. I will explain why.
I think  the investments  made and the losses suffered as a result of these stem from the advice given 
to transfer the ISA. I think that it was the advisers  intention from the outset to invest  Mr M in the type 
of investments he subsequently made and that it was with this in mind that he recommended the 
transfer. That advice fell within  the scope of the authority given to the AR by Best Practice  by way of 
the AR agreement referenced above.
In respect of situations  where part of the transaction is regulated and part is not the judge in 
TenetConnect Services Limited  v Financial Ombudsman and another [2018]  EWHC 459 (admin) said:
The FSMA intended that regulated activity, and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction should  be part 
of a financial service consumers protection. The legislative provisions should be construed so 
that, if part of what is done as a single  activity  is regulated, the whole is regulated rather  than 
the other way round. Otherwise, the regulated part loses the protection  which the FSMA 
requires that it should have. If, to accord that protection, aspects which by themselves  would 
not be regulated are brought into the protective scope of regulation  and the Ombudsmans  
jurisdiction, those giving advice will have to make sure that their regulated and unregulated 
activities are separated, rather than using the unregulated to escape the consequences of 
intermingling them with the regulated.
This means  that even  if I were to conclude that the AR did undertake the activity of managing 
investments and that that activity fell outwith the scope of permission granted  to it by Best Practice, I 
still think we could consider  the complaint in its entirety. This is because the investments  made  were 
sufficiently closely linked to the advice to transfer Mr Ms existing ISA, which I believe Best Practice  
did accept responsibility for.
The suitability report indicates that the plan was for the funds to initially be placed  in a cash  fund for 
investments to be made later down  the line  but, that is not what  happened.  As soon as the fund, 
which was transferred in specie, was encashed the adviser made two of the aforementioned 
investments within two days. In turn, I think there is a direct link between the advice to transfer  for 
which I believe  Best Practice did accept responsibility   to a new ISA, the subsequent investments 
made and, in turn, the losses suffered.
Taking all of this into account, I think that this is a complaint we can consider because  at least  part of 
the transaction, which led to losses that are the subject of this complaint fell within the scope of 
authority Best Practice provided to its AR.
Ref: DRN032282714merits of the complaint
suitability of the advice
The way in which Mr Ms attitude  to risk was described  is somewhat confused, as is the description of 
the investment  strategy  to be employed in the ISA upon transfer  I have quoted some of the relevant 
sections above. For example, Mr M is described as being a balanced  investor at one point but it is 
noted that he is willing  to accept volatility in respect of this investment. Elsewhere he is described as 
having an adventurous  attitude to risk and then that on this basis you are prepared  to accept  some 
volatility [my emphasis] in this ISA investment if that will bring with it the potential  for above average 
returns over time
I do not think  that the above  is consistent or that it is genuinely  reflective of an individual who wants to 
take a high risk or adventurous approach  to investments.
In addition to this, the proposed course of action described in the suitability  report does not align with 
the investments  actually  made. The funds never went into a cash fund and the investments made had 
the potential to be subject  to significant volatility.
As noted in the background to this complaint Mr Ms financial circumstances were  described as follows:
Annual income of £5,000
Monthly expenditure of £1,100
Only asset listed other than his primary residence was an ISA valued  at £4,000
Taking this into account, even if I were to accept that Mr M had a high attitude to risk in respect of this 
investment, I do not think that Mr M had the capacity  for loss to bear the risks of investing his savings  
in this manner.
I do not think  that the course of action which Best Practices AR undertook in respect of Mr Ms ISA 
was suitable. For the reasons which  I set out in detail  above, I think that the losses Mr M suffered as a 
result of these  investments stem from the advice given  to transfer his ISA  and, based on the 
available evidence, that advice fell within  scope of the business for which  Best Practice  had accepted 
responsibility. In turn, I think it is fair and reasonable  for Best Practice to compensate Mr M in full for 
the financial loss he has incurred.
In addition to the financial  loss which Mr M has suffered, I think that this situation  the loss of a 
significant amount of his savings  will have caused Mr M upset and distress. I have taken this into 
account in my award of compensation set out below.
Ref: DRN0322827