K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that when using  online banking  the statement delivery 
method for all their accounts with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was switched to 
paperless. When Mr R contacted Halifax he was told the statement delivery  method  had 
been switched  back to paper but they continued  to receive texts,  letters  and emails  about 
paperless statements.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 31 October 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what should happen to resolve  the complaint. I invited both parties to send any additional  
evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Halifax said it accepted  my provisional  decision. Mr R confirmed to the investigator theyd 
received the provisional decision but didnt provide any further comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) to pay Mr and Mrs R a total of £250  (less any 
payments its already  made).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09859302copy provisional decision  of 31 October 2018
complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that when using  online  banking the statement  delivery  method for all 
their accounts  with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was switched to paperless. When Mr R 
contacted Halifax he was told the statement delivery  method had been switched back to paper  but 
they continued  to receive texts, letters and emails about paperless statements.
background
Mr and Mrs R had a joint current and savings account with Halifax and Mr R had a savings account  
and credit card in his own name. All accounts could  be accessed  online and were  set up to receive  
paper statements.
On 14 March  2018  whilst  accessing their online banking  Mr R noticed that the statement delivery 
method had changed  to paperless for all accounts. But realising the mistake   and being unable to 
rectify it online, Mr R called Halifax the same day and was told the problem had been fixed.
But Mr R subsequently received a text message to say his credit card statement was available to view 
online. Mr R again contacted Halifax and was once more told that the problem would  be fixed. And it 
offered to pay £100 plus £18 for call costs by way of an apology.
But when Mr and Mrs R returned  from a holiday, they found letters  addressed to Mrs R dated  3 April 
2018 saying Mr R had tried to switch the account statements for their joint current  and saving  
accounts to paperless. Mr R again contacted Halifax and complained.
Halifax has since explained  the letters were sent to Mrs R in error and that the account  statements 
had been moved back to paper. Halifax offered  an additional  £30 for the trouble caused. Mr and Mrs 
R were unhappy with this and referred the complaint  to us. One of our investigators looked  into the 
complaint. He acknowledged the problems Mr and Mr R had had in trying to get the problem sorted 
but he thought Halifaxs  offer of £148 was fair.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept this and they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
But before this happened,  Mr R received another email from Halifax asking him to review his online 
credit card statements. Mr R forwarded this email to the investigator, explaining that the problem  still 
hadnt been fixed.
The investigator referred this to Halifax  and it responded to confirm Mr Rs credit card account had 
now been corrected to paper statements only. But it didnt  make any further offers of compensation. 
The investigator considered  the complaint again but he still felt the offer of £148 was fair.
Mr and Mr R have indicated that after this the issue hasnt  happened again and it seems that Mr R 
hasnt received any more  emails. But, theyve also told us theyve  decided to move their banking  
away and remain dissatisfied with Halifax. Theyve also said that they continue to disagree with the 
investigators view of their complaint, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint relates to four different accounts held both jointly and in sole names by Mr and Mrs R 
but Ive dealt  with the issue as one case. The issues raised affected all the accounts Mr and Mrs R 
held and the investigator  has explained to them that this decision  will cover all their concerns.
Ref: DRN09859303Mr and Mrs R have provided a detailed  timeline of what happened and I hope they wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive summed  up the key events above. But Id like to assure  them that, in looking at 
their complaint, Ive considered  all of the points  raised  and listened to all the calls between  them  and 
Halifax, including the calls on 14 March 2018 and 3 April 2018.
I cant  say with certainty how the accounts were  switched to paperless on 14 March  2018.  I accept 
that Mr R says it wasnt his intention to do that when he logged in and thats clear  given he 
immediately called Halifax to fix the problem.  But, equally I dont think  Halifax was trying to force  the 
statements to go paperless. That being said, I agree  with Mr and Mrs R that situation shouldve  been 
much easier  to sort out.
For me, the main issue here is the way Halifax dealt with switching Mr and Mrs Rs accounts  back  to 
paper statements. I can understand Mr and Mrs Rs annoyance at being  told the issue had been fixed 
a number of times, only to receive contradictory and confusing letters, text messages  and emails.
Mr and Mrs R asked for the delivery method to be switched back on 4 March 2018 but the problems  
werent fully resolved until after the case was initially looked  at by our investigator.  Halifax confirmed 
the credit card problems were fixed on 25 July 2018.  Overall,  I think  it took too long to reach  this stage  
and I can see why Mr and Mrs R remain  upset and have lost confidence  in Halifax.
Given the issues with Mr Rs credit card continued for several months, I think  the impact on him 
warrants a compensation payment greater than what Halifax has already offered. Its clear  it was 
really important to Mr and Mrs R to ensure  that paper statements would  be sent and that didnt 
happen in every  case.  For example, Mr Rs credit card statement for April 2018 wasnt posted  as it 
should have been and had to be chased.
And I think Halifax couldve  dealt with the credit  card problems better  than it did. Despite Mr R being  
told the statements had been switched  back to paper a number of times he had to bring the problem  
to Halifaxs attention again in June 2018. It then took until 25 July 2018 for Halifax to tell us the 
problem was resolved. Overall, I think all the problems went on longer than they needed  to which 
increased the level of upset caused to Mr and Mrs R.
From what Ive seen I dont  agree the settlement of £148 is the right way to resolve the complaint 
given the number of problems, level of contact involved and time taken by Mr and Mrs R. I realise 
Mr and Mrs R have said theyd like £1,000 to resolve the complaint  and while Ive had regard for all 
theyve told us here, I think that figures too high. Where a business  has made  a mistake this services 
remit is to award  compensation that fairly reflects the impact  of whats happened. In order to reach  a 
fair resolution here, Im minded to increase the total award from £148 to £250 which I think  more  fairly 
reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs R.
my provisional  decision
Ill consider any further comments received by 14 November 2018. But unless anything changes my 
mind, for the reasons  given above, my provisional  decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint  
and intend to direct Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) to pay Mr and Mrs R a total of £250 (less  
any payments  its already  made).
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0985930