K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wont let him reject a car.
background
In June 2018 Mr S bought a second  hand car funded by a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander. It was some  six years old and had done  around 72,243  miles. Mr S encountered  
some problems with the car including issues with the diesel particulate  filter (DPF). He 
complained to Santander in December 2018.
It arranged for an independent inspection  to be undertaken. The inspector noted the DPF 
warning light came on and a diagnostic test showed  that the DPF was blocked  due to 
excessive soot.  He also noted there had been  a number of modifications made to the car 
since purchase which could affect its performance including  the DPF. 
The report  concluded:  In our opinion due to the visible  evidence  at the time of inspection  the 
responsibility of the cost of repairs should be that of the hirer due to evidence of 
modifications to the vehicle's exhaust  system  and the mileage covered since  the point of 
purchase. The vehicle's faults would not have been  developing at the point of sale.
Santander rejected  Mr Ss complaint  and so he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  He noted the 
MOT carried out when  the car had done 72,244 miles showed  no problems with the exhaust  
emissions. 
He also noted  Mr S had disputed  making any modifications to the car, but the independent 
report didnt support his claim. He said the report explained that if the forced regeneration 
process is incapable of regenerating the unit then it is considered to be at the end of its life, 
which can occur  between  70,000 and 90,000 miles. He also thought it would be important to 
note that the DPF can also get clogged due to driving  style for instance only travelling short  
distances.
He didnt think there was sufficient evidence to allow him to conclude the car was faulty at 
the point of sale. Mr S didnt agree  and said the inspector had lied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Santander is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN07240892The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is unfortunate that Mr S suffered problems with his car, but I havent seen any evidence 
that would  allow me to conclude that these  were present at the point of sale.  It is clear that 
the car has a faulty DPF. However the MOT undertaken  before Mr S acquired  the car and 
the independent report both point  to that problem  arising after he bought it. Mr S hasnt said 
why the inspector lied or which aspects of the report are inaccurate.  Therefore I have no 
reason to doubt the report.
Mr S hasnt provided any job sheets or invoices showing what  work  had been done on the 
car since he bought  it. There  is nothing that suggests the car was faulty at the point of sale. 
Mr S has done some  4,000 miles in the first six months or so, but I do not know if these 
include short  or long trips.  The DPF can require along journey to burn off any excess  soot 
and it may be that this hasnt happened. However, what ever the cause I regret  to say that in 
the absence of evidence to support his complaint  I cannot uphold it. 
I would add that I am aware that Mr S has referred to other problems with the car including 
the bumper, seat belt and window. However,  he has not said what these are and I cannot  
see that these  issues  were raised  with Santander. As such  I cannot comment  on them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
3 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0724089