K820x#14complaint
L has complained about the service provided by the Royal Bank  of Scotland  plc (RBS) 
saying that the charges applied to its account  were excessive.
background
A summary  of the circumstances leading to this complaint, together  with my initial 
conclusions, is contained in my provisional  decision. This was sent to both parties on 
17 December 2019. Due to the holiday period I extended the response date until 28 January 
2020. A copy of the provisional  decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
L had a business account with RBS. This account  had an overdraft limit of £950. The 
account went over this limit in April 2018 and charges were applied.  RBS says it informed  
L in June 2018 that the overdraft was over the agreed limit. L says the account was within  
the overdraft limit and that payments were made to bring the account into credit.  
L complained to RBS who didnt uphold the complaint.  L didnt agree with the RBS response 
and complained to us. L wasnt happy  with the service provided by RBS and repeated  that 
the charges were excessive, which L wanted removed. L also said it is unable  to manage the 
overdraft as each  time a payment is made, it doesnt  reduce the account balance.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Ls complaint. Both 
parties were  invited to comment on my provisional  decision; neither party  had anything  
further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the charges applied  by RBS were  
excessive. This was based  on a Supreme Court decision in 2009  that these charges cant  be 
challenged on the grounds of being too high.  The Courts  view was that a customer  who 
goes over an overdraft limit is really asking  for an informal or unarranged overdraft which the 
bank can agree to (or not). Although the Supreme  Court judgement was based around  
consumer law, I thought a similar approach would be taken to business  accounts. 
I also looked at whether  RBS had applied the charges fairly to Ls account. I noted that the 
account exceeded the overdraft limit from the end of April 2018 onwards. This was mainly 
due to the overdraft  being  renewed  which resulted in a charge of £100 being  added to the 
account (which L had agreed to). I also saw that L made a number of payments into the 
account in May 2018, but these werent  enough to bring the account within the overdraft  
limit. RBS therefore applied charges to the account  in line with its Terms  and Conditions.
I concluded that RBS had applied these charges fairly.
Ive considered everything again  and Im satisfied with the conclusions  set out in my 
provisional decision. Ive also borne in mind  that neither party raised  any objections to any of 
my provisional findings. As a result, I see no reason to alter the outcome I gave in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN03351992my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0335199K820x#14Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
L has complained about  the service provided  by the Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS)  saying that the 
charges applied  to its account were excessive.
background
L had a business account  with RBS with an overdraft limit of £950.  The account  went  over this limit in 
April 2018. As a result,  charges  were applied to the account. The director of L says that he suffered a 
bereavement which led to unexpected  spending.
RBS says that no payments  were made  to Ls account from mid-May 2018 to the beginning  of 
September 2018. RBS says it informed  L in June 2018 that the account  had gone over the overdraft 
limit. RBS also says it sent three letters to L in July 2018 wanting to discuss the management of the 
account. L doesnt agree  with this, saying the account was within  the overdraft limit and that payments 
were made to bring the account into credit. 
L complained to RBS saying there was no longer  a dedicated Business  Manager  to help with its 
account and that excessive charges had been added to the account.  RBS didnt uphold  the complaint.  
It said their Business Managers had moved from a face-to-face approach to a telephone-based  
service some years  previously. RBS also said the charges were  accurate and in line with the account 
Terms and Conditions (T&Cs).
L didnt  agree and complained  to us. L wasnt happy with the service provided  by RBS and repeated 
that the charges were excessive, which  L wanted removed.  L also said it is unable  to manage the 
overdraft as each time a payment is made, it doesnt reduce the account balance.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found that for a few months in 2018 L seemed to 
spend more from the account than was being paid in. He thought the charges were applied  correctly 
and RBS had done nothing wrong.  L didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman  to look into the 
complaint. The case has now been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue  Ive considered is whether  the charges applied by RBS were excessive. A Supreme 
Court decision in 2009  ruled that these charges cant be challenged on the grounds of being too high.  
The Court  took the view that a customer who goes over an overdraft  limit is really asking for an 
informal or unarranged overdraft which, for a charge, the bank can agree to or not. While the 
Supreme Court judgement was based around consumer law and doesnt apply to a business, I think 
its likely  that a similar approach would  be taken to business  accounts. So I dont think its reasonable 
to say the charges were excessive. 
But this is only part of the complaint. L says the account was within the overdraft  limit and it paid in 
money which took the account balance  below  the limit. Ive looked at bank statements  for the relevant 
period. These show that the account was above the agreed overdraft limit from the end of April 2018 
onwards. The main  cause of going over the limit was the renewal  of the overdraft. This incurred  a 
£100 charge (which L agreed to) and was added to the account  in April 2018.  I can see that L made  
three payments into the account  in May 2018. But these werent enough to bring the account  within 
the overdraft  limit. Other than a goodwill gesture of £60 refunded to the account  by RBS,  I can see 
that no credits were made to Ls account from June to August 2018. As a result, the account  stayed 
over the agreed  limit and RBS applied charges to Ls account in line with the accounts T&Cs.  I dont 
think RBS has applied the charges unfairly.
Ref: DRN03351994I also considered  whether  RBS acted fairly  and reasonably in the way it communicated with L and the 
service it offered given the circumstances. RBS says it informed L in June  2018 that the account had 
gone over the overdraft limit. Ive listened to this telephone  call and heard that the support of the RBS 
Business Management Team was offered.  But Ive not seen any evidence that L followed this up. 
RBS also refunded £60 to the account,  as a good  will gesture. 
Ive also seen  that RBS wrote several  letters to L in July 2018. The letters  informed L that the account 
had exceeded the overdraft limit and asked L to get in touch to discuss the account. Each letter also 
offered further  information and contact details of organisations that offer advice on debt management. 
Ive not seen  any evidence that L contacted either RBS or any of the other organisations.
Overall, I think  RBS acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances; so it wouldnt be fair for RBS to 
refund the charges.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0335199