K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained that A Shade Greener  (Boilers) LLP (ASGB) failed to carry out a
power flush on her boiler and as a result  it is now filling with debris and not working properly.
background
Mrs S took out a conditional sale agreement from ASGB for a boiler, which was installed by 
ASGB, in 2014.  The boiler was fitted  in a property  which Mrs S rents out to individual  
tenants.
In 2016 Mrs S experienced problems with her boiler  that ultimately resulted in a complaint
being brought to this service and ASGB was told it needed to carry out repairs to the boiler
at no cost to Mrs S. ASBG duly arranged for an engineer to carry out these repairs in
March 2017.
In late July 2018 Mrs S contacted ASGB again to say she had no hot water and the boiler
wasnt working properly.  The person  she spoke  to explained that if debris was found in her
system the cost of repairs wouldnt be covered  under the terms of her sales agreement.  A
week or so later, in early  August ASGB arranged for an engineer to attend Mrs S property to
inspect the boiler.  The engineer found debris  present and so Mrs S was told the issue was
not covered under the sales agreement and she was charged  £232.80  for the repairs.
Mrs S is adamant she should not be held liable for the cost of the repairs. She says that no
power flush was carried  out when the boiler was installed and believes the problem with the
debris in her boiler  is the result of ASGB failing to install and maintain her boiler properly.
ASGB strongly refutes this and says the debris found in the boiler is the result of a fault
within the system itself and not because of an inherent fault in the boiler or the consequence
of the boiler not being fitted properly in the first instance. It has said that under the terms and
conditions of the sales agreement Mrs S is responsible for the maintenance of the pipes and
radiators ands so it doesnt believe it should  be held liable for the repairs  to her boiler.
I issued two provisional decisions on this complaint on 19 September  2019 and  
24 October 2019. In them  I found  that it was more likely than not that the issues  Mrs S is 
currently experiencing with her boiler were result  of ASGB not correctly  installing the boiler in 
2014. 
I directed ASGB  to refund Mrs S the money  she was charged for repairs in August  2018 as 
well as the cost of obtaining an independent engineers report for this investigation.  I said that 
ASGB should cover  the costs of a full inspection of the boiler and any subsequent cleaning,  
repair or replacement  of parts contaminated by debris or sludge.  I also suggested that ASGB  
pay Mrs S £300 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset  it had caused  her in 
how it had handled  her complaint both before and since it has been  with this service.  
Mrs S responded to my second provisional  decision by confirming that she had already 
sourced two independent engineers  reports  estimating the cost of the repairs  and that she 
would pass these onto ASGB  so it could choose, which of the two, it would arrange to come 
and repair  her boiler. 
ASGB responded to the second provisional decision saying that it would abide by the 
findings, despite not agreeing it was responsible  for the problems Mrs S has experienced 
with her boiler. It said that once the repairs were  made to the boiler it would no longer accept 
Ref: DRN09385492any liability  for it. It confirmed Mrs S has ended her agreement  with ASGB  and that going 
forward all future maintenance  would  be her own responsibility. 
As neither Mrs S nor ASGB provided any new evidence  for me to consider, or objected to 
any of the recommendations set out in the second provisional decision,  I see no reason to 
change my findings. I have set out these out again  below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S acquired the boiler under a conditional  sale agreement. Under this type of agreement
ASGB is the supplier  of the goods  and is responsible for fulfilling its obligations as set out in
the agreement, and any terms which are implied  by relevant law.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into consideration  amongst  other  things 
the relevant law and in particular the Sale of Goods Act 1979 and also the Supply of Goods
and Services Act 1982. Without going into great detail, the relevant effect  of these pieces of
legislation is that any goods ASGB supplied under the agreement needed to have been of
satisfactory quality, and any services would  need  to have been carried  out with reasonable
care and skill.
Mrs S has provided us with three separate reports from three independent  engineers. These
are dated  February  2017, July 2018 and September 2019. All three reports  indicate that
while the water in the boiler was clean,  it seems unlikely that sludge or debris circulating
within the system has caused the most recent  problem. It seems more likely  that the present
problem goes back to the power-flush which occurred on installation.
In its response to the first provisional  decision  ASGB strongly disagreed with the findings I
made. It gave a very detailed explanation of what should happen when a boiler is installed
and the guidelines it says it wouldve followed. It alluded  to a service  that was carried  out in
October 2015 which it felt showed the system was working properly. But this alone isnt
enough to disprove the findings of the three other engineers. Especially given they all agreed
the water  was running clean. It also alluded to the fact that neither of the first two engineers
commented on the magnetic filter or carried out any water sampling. I can clarify that the
final report did indicate that the magnetic filter was very dirty and recommended  a full power
flush in order to clean  it out.
On balance, it appears installation was not carried out with reasonable care and skill, and
caused debris or sludge to be deposited in various parts of the boiler when  it was new.  The
plate heat exchanger was replaced after it became blocked the first time,  but no other parts
of the boiler (except for some hoses)  were inspected, cleaned or replaced,  meaning these
could still have been contaminated with sludge.  So if sludge was present in other parts of the
boiler upstream of the plate heat exchanger, it seems possible this could have become
dislodged over time and caused a blockage further on. While its not possible to know  this for
sure, given the water in the system  is clean  it appears unlikely the sludge could have come
from anywhere else. This means  I dont find it very probable that any failure by Mrs S to
maintain the system caused  the most recent  blockage. My conclusion,  based on the
available evidence, is that the debris which blocked the plate  heat exchanger most recently
was left over from the power-flush on installation.
Ref: DRN09385493ASGB had a responsibility to carry out the installation (which  included the power-flush
process) with reasonable care and skill. In my view it failed to do so, leading to blockages  of
the boiler which I think it was responsible for putting right.  Although I accept ASGB  took
some action to replace  a part and clean some  hoses after the previous complaint, Im not
convinced this has resolved the underlying issue.
So despite  the detailed response provided  by ASGB Ive not seen any new evidence  from
them to convince  me that the issues Mrs S is having  with her boiler are not the direct result
of it not being  installed  properly in the first instance.  And I find it extremely troubling that after
receiving the first provisional  decision, which indicated that the complaint would be upheld 
and redress awarded,  ASGB  contacted  Mrs S directly to try to persuade her to drop her
complaint with this service, thus rendering any suggested redress  unenforceable.
In order to put things  right this time, ASGB  needs  to put Mrs S, as far as possible,  back in
the position shed have  been in had the installation been carried  out with reasonable care
and skill. As the relationship between ASGB and Mrs S has broken down ASGB  should
cover the cost of getting an independent engineer  to inspect the boiler for any remaining
debris or sludge,  and repairing/cleaning (if possible)  or replacing  any affected parts. It should
also refund  the additional  charges  of £232.80  (plus  interest) it made to Mrs S in relation  to
the most  recent repairs,  and refund the £45 (plus interest) cost of her the second
independent engineers report.
Mrs S has had the boiler inspected and has received quotes from two independent 
engineers for the work that needs  to be completed. She should present these quotes to 
ASGB so it can decide which  one it will pay. ASGB will also need  to pay for the cleaning, 
repair or replacement  of any parts as deemed necessary by the heating  engineer  due to the 
build-up of debris  or sludge.
Finally Mrs S has told us of the stress  this entire  process has caused her and I agree ASGB
has behaved very poorly in the way it has dealt with Mrs S. It has behaved at times in a
threatening manner  towards Mrs S and has attempted to undermine the complaint process
by, for example, suggesting  it will take Mrs S to court unless she withdraws her complaint.
Its also provided a generally  poor standard of customer  service  to Mrs S throughout its
dealings with her. In the circumstances, taking  into account the level of distress caused to
Mrs S by ASGBs  actions, I think it should  pay her £300 compensation
Ref: DRN09385494My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct 
A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP to:
Refund the August 2018  fee of £232.80 along  with simple interest at 8% per year.
The interest to run from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the £45 Mrs S paid for an independent engineers report.  This should  also
include simple interest  at 8% per year. The interest to run from the date of payment to
the date of settlement.
Cover the costs of a full inspection of the boiler and any subsequent cleaning,  repair  
or replacement of parts contaminated by debris  or sludge.
Pay Mrs S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0938549