K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund  him for unauthorised payments to a car 
hire company taken  without his knowledge  or consent.
background
Mr M held a current account and credit  card account  with Santander.  On 7 November 2018, 
Mr M paid a small deposit using his debit card to secure  a hire car for a holiday with a UK 
based firm Ill refer to as A. 
Between 24 November  2018 and 26 November 2018, a firm Ill refer to as B debited the 
following payments  from Mr Ms credit card account:  
24 November 2018  3,675  AED (£781.53)
24 November 2018  5,000  AED (£1,062.68)
26 November 2018  5,000  AED (£1,062.68)
26 November 2018  5,000  AED (£1,062.68)
26 November 2018  5,000  AED (£1,062.68)
Mr M said his agreement  was with A and not B and he agreed with A that hed make  cash 
payments for services whilst abroad. Mr M says he paid the car rental cost of £781.53 to B 
after he was told he could  only use his card and not cash. He said the subsequent four 
payments were taken  without his knowledge  or consent.  
Hes also unhappy that his passport and drivers license  pictures  were  shared between A 
and B  he feels was a breach of his data. Mr M says that Santander should have spotted  
the payments  taken  in such a short space of time.
Santander looked into things and said their systems  flagged the payments of 26 November 
2018 as suspicious  and froze the account. Santander raised a chargeback on Mr Ms behalf 
with B. They  provided  a temporary credit  of the four disputed transactions to Mr Ms account 
whilst they looked  into things. B provided evidence to show  that Mr M had an agreement with 
them and caused damage to the hire car whilst abroad. The cost of the damage was 
specified in the rental  agreement signed by Mr M.
Santander declined  Mr Ms claim and decided to end their banking  relationship. Mr M faced 
difficulty settling is account  and switching it to a new provider because of failures on 
Santanders part. As a result, he missed out on a switching incentive with a new banking  
provider. As a way of apologising, Santander paid Mr M £235 to recognise the incentive he 
missed out on and compensation for their poor customer service.  
Mr M referred his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators didnt feel that 
Santander needed do anything more. He was satisfied that Mr M signed an agreement  
allowing B to debit his credit card account in the event that their agreement was breached.  
Evidence was provided to suggest  the rental  car was damaged. B also provided receipts for 
the disputed transactions which were authenticated by Mr Ms genuine card.  
He said the concern over the data breach should be something Mr M takes up with A.
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN06534902I got in touch with Mr M to explain that I thought the compensation  payment for the way in 
which Mr M was treated when he tried to switch his account  was fair. I explained there didnt  
appear to be a breach of contract  or misrepresentation claim that could be brought under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. I invited Mr M to provide further evidence in 
relation to any other contract he may have had with A. Mr M didnt respond, so Ive 
proceeded based on the information I do have.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
In short,  Santander  is required  to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr M says he didnt know about the four transactions in question  and they were  taken  
without his consent. So my primary concern is to come to a view about  whether or not I think  
Mr M authorised the payment. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms transaction  history, Im satisfied the genuine  card and PIN were 
used in order for the disputed transaction to take place.  And despite  what Mr M has said,  Im 
not persuaded he wasnt aware of the transactions. In coming to that view,  Ive taken into 
account the following reasons:
Santander has provided an agreement signed  by Mr M which  included costs  for the 
car rental  of 3,675 AED (undisputed)  and a deposit of 5,000 (disputed) on the same  
day. Its common for a deposit to be taken alongside  a payment for a car hire, so I 
find it difficult to agree that Mr M wouldnt have been aware of the deposit taken 
alongside his car hire cost.
The hire agreement states that if the driver is found guilty  during  an incidence of 
accident he/she will pay an amount of AED 20,000 + 25% of the value of repairs.  
A sketch  of the vehicle noted damage  to the hire car and the agreement is signed by 
Mr M.
B held copies of Mr Ms passport and drivers  license so it would be difficult  for me to 
say that Mr M didnt have  a relationship  with B given the information  they held about  
him. Even if he feels that information was passed  from A to B, I have no evidence 
that this was the case and its common for this type of information to be provided 
when collecting a hire car.
Our investigator invited  Mr M to provide any evidence of his agreement with A. Or evidence 
to confirm that cash payments would be taken. Mr M didnt provide any further evidence. 
During a conversation with our investigator, Mr M confirmed he did damage the hire car.
Santander did flag concerns with Mr Ms account and froze  further payments being taken. 
Ive thought about what wouldve happened if they froze  the account sooner and whether 
this could have  prevented  further  losses. From the evidence Ive seen, Mr M had an 
agreement to pay the costs taken from him and Im not persuaded Santander should have 
prevented these payments from being taken  in accordance with his agreement  with B. 
Ref: DRN06534903Im satisfied Santander and our service have given Mr M the opportunity to substantiate his 
claim about his agreement with A and not B. But hes not provided anything  to dispute the 
evidence weve seen.
All in all I dont find Mr Ms testimony to be persuasive or plausible. I think  its more  likely Mr 
M had an agreement with B and was required to pay for the damage caused  to his hire car. 
Ive taken account of the poor service  Santander  provided when he tried to repay  his 
account and switch his banking service  and Im satisfied the amount of compensation 
Santander paid is a fair way of recognising the trouble  and upset he would have  been  
caused. 
For completeness Ive also considered whether Santander should have raised a dispute with 
B under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 on Mr Ms behalf. This allows for a card 
issuer to be liable where the party taking a payment misrepresents  what  theyre selling or 
doesnt fulfil their part of a contract. 
But it appears that the payment has been taken in accordance with the terms of the contract, 
so I dont find that Mr M would have  had a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract.
I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Santander to refuse to refund the disputed 
transactions on the basis it was authorised by Mr M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0653490