K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr E took out a credit card with Capital One in 2006. At the same time he was sold a PPI 
policy which  wouldve helped cover the repayments on his credit card for up to 12 months at 
a time if he couldnt work due to an accident,  sickness or unemployment.
Mr E says that it wasnt made clear that the PPI was optional. He says it was added  without  
his knowledge  and that he wasnt given  enough  information about it.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Es complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr E disagreed,  so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Es 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr E says that the PPI was added without  his knowledge or consent and that he didnt know 
it was optional. Capital  One say that the PPI was optional and Mr E chose to take it.
Mr Es initial  application  for the credit card was declined.  Capital  One has provided a copy of 
this application  and theres a separate section where Mr E is asked whether hes interested 
in a number of optional features. One of these is PPI. Mr E has ticked  to indicate that he was 
interested in protecting  his card repayments. 
When Mr Es application  was declined Capital One contacted Mr E and suggested he make 
a new application  for a different type of card. Mr E duly did so, and Capital One has provided 
a copy of this application  too. 
This form has a separate section about  PPI, too. Its more definitive than the first application 
as it says I wish to purchase optional [PPI]  and a brief explanation of how the policy  is paid 
for. Mr E ticked the box to say he wanted the PPI and he also signed  separately to confirm 
this. 
So I think Mr E showed  an initial interest in the PPI in his first declined application and 
followed this by confirming he wanted  it in the second successful application. I think its clear 
he had a choice  about buying it. I am satisfied  that Mr E bought  the PPI knowing  he didnt 
have to.
Capital One didnt provide  Mr E with a personal  recommendation  about  the policy, so it didnt 
have to take steps to make sure it was right for him. But it did have to give Mr E enough 
information about the policy so he could make his own informed decision.
Ref: DRN03241532I dont think Capital One did this. Theres no information about the policys benefits, cost or 
exclusions on the paperwork  Ive seen. But this doesnt mean  I should  automatically uphold 
Mr Es complaint. I need  to consider whether Mr E wouldve acted  differently and not bought 
the policy if hed had all the information he needed.
Mr E was eligible for the policy  and I dont think hed have been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such  as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or employment circumstances.
Mr E noted  on his first application form that he was employed in construction. Hes since  told 
us that he was an apprentice at the time.  I think that as an apprentice hed have had similar, 
if not the same, employment  rights  as a traditionally  employed permanent member  of staff. 
Mr E has also told us that he was a student. I think this relates to the essential study 
component of his apprenticeship and I dont  think it wouldve affected his ability to make  a 
claim. Mr E has also said that he was self-employed, too. As a self-employed  person it may 
have been more difficult for him to make  a successful claim.  But it seems that this self 
employed status wouldve come after he completed  his apprenticeship. Mr E had been an 
apprentice for about a year at the point  of application, so I think  hed have had at least  a year 
left of his apprenticeship.  So, I dont think if hed understood that terms related to self-
employment that hed have acted  differently and not bought the policy.
Mr E reports  that he only had statutory sick pay, and no entitlement to redundancy pay. He 
also didnt have any other means to meet his repayments if he wasnt  working. So I think  the 
policy offered him a useful benefit.  The policy was flexible  and couldve been cancelled at 
any time without financial  penalty. 
So, on balance, I dont  think more  information  about the terms and conditions  wouldve 
changed Mr E mind about buying  the policy. So I dont think  Mr E lost out as a result  of 
anything Capital One did wrong.  This means that Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because  when the policy 
was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr E about that. Because  it  didnt tell 
Mr E, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One  has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Capital One has to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay back 
to Mr E any extra interest he paid because  of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr E the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr E 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN03241533my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0324153