K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold his interest only mortgage  and didnt treat 
him fairly when the mortgage  reached  the end of its term and he was unable  to repay the 
full balance. 
background
In 1993, Mr K took out an interest only with Santander. He took further borrowing in 2007. 
The term ended in 2019. But the endowment policy wasnt enough  to repay  the mortgage 
balance. Mr K said when  the mortgage  term ended Santander initially indicated  that it could 
extend the term of the mortgage.  But it later declined  his application for a term extension. 
Mr K has arranged  a mortgage  with another lender.  He considers that the mortgage was 
mis-sold in the first place and that Santander  didnt treat him fairly when the mortgage term 
ended.
Our investigator said that we couldnt  look at the complaint about the sale of the mortgage as 
it was brought  to us too late. Mr K and Santander  accepted that.
The investigator said we could look at the complaint  about how Santander treated Mr K at 
the end of term. But she didnt think that complaint  should  be upheld.
Mr K didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
Santander lied to him about the endowment  policy  and led him to believe it would pay 
off his total balance. There was more  reward for Santander to sell him an interest only 
rather than a repayment mortgage.
He had made  all of his payments on time.
Santander told him to come up with £45,000 when the mortgage term ended, and it told 
him that they would  let hm repay  that amount on a repayment basis.  He considers it 
changed its mind because he was complaining about  the sale of the mortgage.
He couldnt understand why another lender was prepared to offer him a new mortgage 
where he had no track record  but Santander  declined his application where he had a 
perfect payment history.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
sale of the mortgage
Our investigator issued  a view saying  the complaint was out of time. Mr K accepted that 
opinion and the investigator  went on to consider  the complaint about the end of term.
Ref: DRN08764932But Mr K raised points about the sale of the mortgage in response to the view about term 
end. The investigator  clarified the position.  I agree that the complaint is out of time. It was 
brought more  than six years after the sale of the mortgage and Mr K has told us that he was 
dissatisfied with the interest only mortgage over three years ago. So under our rules, that 
complaint is out of time  unless there  were  exceptional reasons  why the time limits couldnt 
be met and/or the business consents to us looking at the complaint.
Mr K hasnt told us about any exceptional circumstances that meant  he couldnt complain in 
time. And as Santander hasnt consented  to us looking at the complaint about the sale of the 
mortgage, Im afraid I dont have the power to look at it. Id note that I havent made any 
decision about whether the mortgage  was mis-sold or not. But rather  that under our rules I 
cant look at this complaint.
end of term
Mr K had entered into a contract  with Santander for the mortgage to be repaid in 2019.  So it 
was reasonable  for it to seek repayment  of the full balance  of the mortgage at the end of the 
agreed term. But it also has an obligation to treat its customers fairly.  So when one of its 
borrowers is unable  to repay the outstanding balance  it should  explore if there are any 
options available to the borrower and consider what is in their best interests. That could 
include switching to repayment, extending  the term on an interest only basis, switching to a 
different type of mortgage or selling the property.
I cant see that Santander ever promised Mr K that he could switch to a repayment 
mortgage. But Im satisfied that it took reasonable steps to establish whether that would be 
affordable for him. Based on the information  available to Santander it had legitimate 
concerns about  the affordability  of switching to repayment. So it is difficult to say that it would 
have been in Mr Ks best interests to allow that switch to go ahead.
Mr K then looked into extending  the term on an interest only basis,  but again  that was 
declined because of concerns about  affordability. I think this was a reasonable decision 
based on the information available to Santander.
Mr K was able to obtain a mortgage  with another lender. That is one way of sorting out the 
problem of repaying the mortgage to Santander.  Im glad that Mr K was able to arrange  
something that met his needs. Of course,  if he couldnt do that then Santander should have 
given Mr K time to explore  his options and continue to see if there was anything  it could do 
to assist him. But that wasnt  necessary  as Mr K was able to repay  the mortgage.
I accept Mr Ks point that he cant understand why Santander declined  his applications 
despite his longstanding relationship with it and as other lenders were prepared  to offer him 
a mortgage. It is up to Santander  to decide who it is prepared to lend to and on what  terms. 
It should act fairly and consider its customers best interests. But Im satisfied that it has 
done so in this case.  It doesnt  follow that Santander  has acted unfairly  just because another  
lender was prepared to offer him a mortgage.
Lastly, looking at the information provided  by Santander I cant see that Mr Ks complaint 
about the sale of the mortgage was a factor in any of the decisions it took. Based on the 
evidence available  to me I cant see that Santander took the complaint into account when 
making the decision not to extend the term of Mr Ks mortgage.
Ref: DRN08764933my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0876493