K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained as director of M, a limited  company, about how long its taken
Society of Lloyds to deal with his commercial vehicle insurance claim.  Hes also unhappy 
that Society  of Lloyds  hasnt reimbursed all his costs.
For ease, whenever I talk about  Society  of Lloyds  or Lloyds in this decision, this will include 
anything done  by the underwriters.
background
One of Ms drivers was involved in an accident  on 25 May 2018. The van was taken  into 
storage and Mr B initially looked to claim for the repairs directly  from the other drivers 
insurer. The other drivers insurer offered to provide Mr B with a replacement van but he 
hired another van elsewhere in order to continue with Ms work commitments.
Mr B contacted Lloyds  on 26 June  to let it know the other drivers insurer  wasnt going to 
deal with the repairs.
The damaged van had incurred storage charges with the garage it had been taken to after 
the accident. Lloyds said it wasnt responsible for the storage  charges as it hadnt moved 
the van to the garage. So Mr B agreed  to pay the storage charge to get the van released  to
Lloyds, although  he didnt think it was fair hed had to pay. Lloyds was due to recover  the 
van on 6 July but wasnt able to on the first attempt  due to its size. Mr B was unhappy with 
how long things were  taking and complained to Lloyds.
Once Lloyds had collected the van it inspected it and on 14 August decided  that it could  be 
repaired. On 23 August  Mr B complained again about the delays. At first he said he didnt 
want to claim  on his own policy but decided to do so on 31 August. So Lloyds arranged 
repairs.
Mr B collected his van from the garage on 5 November. Shortly afterwards he contacted
Lloyds to say he was unhappy  with the repairs. He said hed had to take his van back  to the 
garage and paid for further repairs.
Mr B remained unhappy  with how long the claim was taking  to settle  and that he was out of 
pocket. He wanted to Lloyds  to reimburse him for:
excess and storage
replacement van hire costs
costs for getting the driver home  after the accident
 VAT
further repairs
pro rata insurance and tax while van was off the road
Lloyds said it would  try to recover the money  for the additional repairs  from the other drivers 
insurer. It also accepted  it had caused some  unnecessary delays. It offered Mr B £500  to 
compensate him for this. However it thought other  delays were  outside of its control and 
didnt think it should be held accountable for any delays that had happened  before Mr B 
confirmed he wanted to claim on his policy.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy with the amount of time it was taking
Lloyds to deal with his claim, get his van repaired  and settle  his out of pocket expenses.
Ref: DRN03724172While I was looking into things I asked Mr B to provide a copy of the invoice for the further 
repairs hed needed.  I sent this invoice  to Lloyds who agreed to pay Mr B for these.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 August 2019 where I explained  what  
Lloyds needed  to do to put things right. In that I said:
There were a number of businesses involved after the accident but in this decision I can only 
comment on what Lloyds as Ms insurer might, or might not have done wrong.
I understand Mr Bs still unhappy about the standard of repairs however thats not been  dealt
with in this decision  and Im only going  to look at what happened  up to the point Mr B 
brought his complaint to us.
Delays and replacement van costs
Mr Bs policy  doesnt provide a replacement van while his is being repaired. However where
Lloyds has caused  unnecessary delays,  the van hire cost is a financial  loss Ms suffered due 
to Lloyds actions.  I think it was reasonable for Mr B to have hired another van to allow him 
to continue working, so Ive considered  what unnecessary delays Lloyds caused.
Where liability is being  disputed claims can take some time to resolve.  I understand Mr B 
didnt think his driver was to blame  but the other drivers insurer  also said their driver wasnt 
to blame. This meant Lloyds had to negotiate with the other insurer. However I think  there 
were times when Lloyds  caused unnecessary delays and Ill now explain  why.
Lloyds seems to have become aware  of the accident on 13 June but Mr B was initially  
looking to claim directly  through the other drivers  insurer.  This means Lloyds wasnt  
responsible for progressing things until 22 June when Mr B made  it aware the other drivers 
insurer wouldnt deal with directly. I understand the other drivers insurer has paid Mr B what  
it would  have paid to hire a van for him between 28 May and 25 June.
I understand Lloyds  doesnt think it can be held responsible for any delays that occurred 
before 31 August when Mr B decided to go ahead with the claim. But I dont agree. Im 
satisfied that Lloyds started acting for Mr B on 22 June when it started looking into his claim 
so Im going  to consider any delays from that date.
Lloyds arranged for the van to be collected on 6 July. This doesnt  seem to be an 
unreasonable length of time given  that the issue of the storage charges needed resolving 
before Lloyds could collect  the van. However  Lloyds didnt let the recovery  agent know  that 
it was a commercial van which meant  it couldnt be collected. Its unclear when the van was 
actually collected  but once it had been recovered Lloyds engineers decided it could be 
repaired on 14 August.  Its been  difficult for me to work out exactly  what was going on during 
this time but I havent seen anything to persuade  me it was reasonable for this to take just 
over five weeks. I think two weeks would have been  a more reasonable time for Lloyds to 
recover the vehicle  and decide  if it could  be repaired  so I think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Lloyds caused a delay of 21 days here.
Once Lloyds decided the van would  be repaired  it instructed an approved repairer. There 
were also a few days where Mr B said he didnt want to claim on his policy.  I dont think  it 
would be fair to hold Lloyds  responsible for any delays during the time Mr B was thinking 
about whether  he wanted to claim on his policy.
Ref: DRN03724173It seems  the first approved repairer wasnt able to carry out the repairs  but again its very 
unclear why it took Lloyds from 14 August to 5 November to repair  Mr Bs van  excluding 
the few days where he said he didnt want to claim.
I can see a repair report was completed by engineers on 12 September. Even with Mr B not 
wanting to claim for a few days it still seems unreasonable that it took Lloyds a month  to 
approve the repairs. So I think there was probably an unreasonable delay of 14 days  here.
The report  estimated that the repairs would take 12-13 working days  to complete.  That 
means the repairs should have been  finished  by 28 September. I havent seen any good 
reason as to why Mr Bs van wasnt ready for collection until 5 November. So I think its fair 
and reasonable to conclude there  was a delay of 25 days  between  12 September and
5 November.
Mr B had to return it to the garage until 16 November garage for further repairs as it was 
unsafe. Mr B shouldnt have had to do this and taking the van back  to the garage caused  
him the financial loss of hiring a replacement  van. I can also understand why Mr B needed to 
keep the hire van at this time as he didnt  think his van was safe to drive. So I think theres 
another delay  of 11 days here that Lloyds should  reimburse him for.
In total I think Lloyds caused an unnecessary delay of 71 days.  This equates  to 10 weeks  
vehicle hire that I dont  think  hed have had to pay for if Lloyds hadnt caused  delays. So I 
think the fair and reasonable  outcome is for Lloyds to reimburse Mr B for those  weeks  hire 
upon production  of the invoice for the hire. I wont require  Lloyds  to pay any VAT element as
Mr B will be able to recover this himself from [HM Revenue & Customs] HMRC.  Due to the 
time Mr Bs been without  the money  Lloyds should add interest  at a rate of 8% simple  from 
the date he paid the invoices to the date it makes payment.
Excess
Mr Bs policy  defines an excess as a contribution by him to a claim he makes under the 
policy. Its usual for insurers to charge an excess even when an accident isnt the 
policyholders fault.  So I dont think Lloyds  did anything wrong by charging this. An excess 
isnt something thats covered by the policy and is known as an uninsured  loss. Mr B can 
look to recover this from the other drivers  insurer directly but it isnt something  Lloyds  is 
required to recover on his behalf.
Storage costs
Lloyds wasnt responsible for moving Mr Bs van into storage and he didnt initially want it to 
deal with his claim. So I dont think Lloyds  had responsibility for the storage costs until it 
knew the other drivers insurer wasnt going  to deal with his claim on 20 June. I understand
Lloyds has tried to recover this from the other  drivers insurer for Mr B but I dont think it 
needs to pay this itself if its unable to recover them. I understand Mr B feels  he was duped 
into agreeing to pay for them  but I dont think hed have  had any other option in order for his 
van to be released. For these reasons I dont intend  to tell Lloyds to reimburse  the storage 
costs.
VAT
M will be able to look to recover any VAT it pays from HMRC. So I dont think theres  any 
financial loss here and I dont intend to ask Lloyds to pay the VAT.
Ref: DRN03724174Costs for getting the driver home
Not every loss a policyholder suffers following an accident is covered  by the policy.  The cost
Mr B incurred in getting his driver  home isnt something thats covered by his policy. I 
appreciate thats  frustrating for Mr B as the accident  wasnt his fault but I dont intend to ask
Lloyds to reimburse him for this.
Further repairs
I can see Lloyds said it would reimburse Mr B for the additional repairs if it was able to 
recover them from the other drivers insurer. However I dont think thats right. These  were  a 
cost Mr B incurred because Lloyds repairers didnt repair the van properly. Im pleased  to 
see Lloyds has now agreed  to pay for these.
Lloyds said it asked  Mr B to send a copy of this invoice in its final response letter of
January 2019  and hadnt received it. However  as this was a cost Mr B shouldnt have 
incurred Im satisfied hes been  without money he should have had as a result  of this. So
Lloyds should  add interest on the amount it reimburses Mr B for the additional  repairs at a 
rate of 8% simple from the date he paid for the repairs to the date it makes payment
Tax and insurance
Mr B would always have  had to pay his insurance  premium but hes said he could have 
declared the van SORN if hed known how long the repairs would take. However  I think hell 
be fairly compensated for any delays by Lloyds reimbursing the van hire charges. If I told
Lloyds to refund any tax or insurance  premium hed have the benefit  of both the use of 
another van which he wasnt paying separate  insurance for, and these  costs  back. So I dont 
intend to tell Lloyds to pay for these.
Inconvenience
Lloyds said the £500 it offered Mr B was compensation  for the delays  and not to reimburse 
any hire costs. On that basis Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for it to pay in addition to reimbursing Mr B for the financial losses  it caused  
him.
Mr B didnt make any further  comments. Lloyds asked for copies of Ms invoices along with 
the date they were  paid. It then confirmed it had paid Mr B in line with my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received any comments disputing my provisional findings I see no reason to 
depart from them.  So Lloyds should  resolve this complaint as I set out in my provisional 
findings. 
Ref: DRN03724175my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to (if it 
hasnt already done so):
pay M 10 weeks van hire (minus  VAT) plus interest at a rate of 8% simple from the
date Mr B paid the invoices to the date it makes settlement1;
reimburse M for the additional repairs  plus interest at a rate of 8% simple from the
date Mr B paid for the repairs to the date it makes payment;  and
pay M £500 compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  of 
M, to accept or reject my decision  before 15 November 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Society of Lloyds considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0372417