K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  wouldnt  reimburse  her for 
faulty furniture  which  she bought using  her Nationwide credit card. She brings  this complaint 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 April 2019, a copy  of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Nationwide said it would  accept my provisional decision.
Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that:
the use she had of the suite  in its faulty  condition couldnt be described as a benefit;
she didnt agree that it had been  reasonable for Nationwide to refuse her initial 
complaint in 2015. She also queried why Nationwide hadnt suggested a referral  to 
the Furniture Ombudsman  at that stage;  
she hadnt disposed  of the suite because  she couldnt afford to replace it; and
the faults in the suite became apparent  almost  immediately after delivery   the 
cushions were faulty when delivered  and the split in the fabric occurred  a week  later.  
So any use she had made  of the suite shouldnt  be taken into account, and she 
should receive a full refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered carefully the further comments Mrs S has made. I understand the strength of 
her feelings  that she has had to battle for more than four years  to reach this point, and the 
use she has made of the suite during that time has been unwilling.
However as I said in my provisional decision,  I cant take into account the way F handled the 
initial complaint she made  to it, which isnt within our jurisdiction. Also,  Mrs S didnt reject the 
suite from the outset. She wanted F to repair  the defects she complained  about.  Only when it 
became clear that F wouldnt do so did she ask for a complete refund. 
I have to consider  what compensation Nationwide  should  now pay Mrs S. All in all, I remain  
of the view that the redress I proposed  in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint, for the reasons I set out in that decision.
Ref: DRN00907522my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mrs S:
1.£275, in reimbursement of the cost of her obtaining the independent report;
2.£1,887.60,  being 60% of the cost of buying the suite  from F;
3.compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience Nationwides poor handling 
of her complaint  has caused her; and
4.interest on items 1 and 2 above  at the annual rate of 8% simple from the respective 
dates Mrs S incurred the expense until settlement.  In the case of item 2 above this 
should be taken  as 27 October 2014,  the date she paid the balance  of the cost to F 
using her credit card. (1)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)If Nationwide considers that its required  by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
_________________________________________________________________________________
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 12 April 2019
complaint
Ref: DRN00907523Mrs S complains that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) wouldnt reimburse her for faulty 
furniture which she bought using her Nationwide  credit  card.  She brings this complaint  under section 
75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974.
background
In June 2014,  Mrs S bought  a quality  brand of sofa and two arm chairs  for £3,146 from a well known 
high street department store which Ill call F. She paid for these  using her Nationwide credit card. 
The suite was delivered in October 2014, but because  she was moving house at the time she didnt 
unwrap it until she moved into her new house in December 2014.
Shortly afterwards she noticed a split in the arm of one of the armchairs. She also thought  the 
cushions on the sofa were  unsatisfactory   they became  flat and misshapen when sat on.
In January 2015 she complained  to F. It sent its own furniture  inspectors on two occasions. But it 
wouldnt accept there was any manufacturing fault and closed Mrs Ss complaint in May 2015.
In September 2015, Mrs S complained to Nationwide under section 75. Nationwide rejected  her claim 
on the basis that Fs internal reports said there wasnt a manufacturing complaint,  and Mrs S hadnt 
notified the issues to F within 72 hours of delivery as required by Fs terms and conditions.
Mrs S decided that the only way to get redress would  be to bring a claim against F in the small claims  
court. She was advised that to succeed in this she would need an independent report  about  the 
condition of the suite. She commissioned a report from a fully qualified  Master  Upholsterer at a cost of 
£275. She received  the report  in April 2017.
The detailed  report included the following information:
It confirmed the split in the arm of the armchair was the result of a running fault in the fabric 
which should  have  been noticed by the manufacturers quality  control section prior to 
dispatch, so wasnt caused by anything Mrs S had done;
It said the right hand side inner frame truss of the sofa had internally collapsed and was 
broken;
under the sofa seat cushions was a very poorly upholstered and loosely tensioned platform  
panel with an excessive amount of fabric slack: and
a total of 21 manufacturing faults,  and 1 severe manufacturing fault,  had been found  in the 
two arm chairs and the sofa.
The report concluded by saying:
The types  of faults found  will now only worsen  and exaggerate  the problems with progressive use 
and will continue to prematurely wear  and age the look of the fabric suite left in this condition.  
The majority of these finishing faults should have been noticed and corrected by the manufacturers 
quality control  division  prior to the initial  delivery  to the customer.  
The condition  of this premier line upholstered  suite is very poor indeed with an alarming amount of 
quality and finish related  faults identified. Clearly the suite is not as described or fit for its intended  
purpose as a seating  application within the home.
Armed with this report,  in June 2017  Mrs S complained again to Nationwide. In January 2018, 
Nationwide issued its final response to Mrs S. It said the reports from Fs inspectors and the 
independent report Mrs S had obtained came to vastly different conclusions. It didnt think, taken  
together, they were  enough to prove a breach  of contract by F sufficient  to support  a section 75 
claim.
Ref: DRN00907524Nationwide said it needed  Mrs S to obtain a further  report on the suite  from the Furniture 
Ombudsman on;
what faults there were  with the suite,
what had caused these, and
what could be done to remedy  these.
It said it would pay for this report, and would  also reimburse her the cost of the report  she had 
already obtained. Mrs S thought that in view of the time that had already passed  since she bought 
the suite, and the independent report she had produced to Nationwide, it was unreasonable of it to 
require another report. So in March 2018 she complained  to us. She wanted:
a refund of what she had paid for the suite;
reimbursement of the cost of the independent report; and
compensation for the stress she had suffered for the delays in dealing with her complaints 
since she bought the suite and for the suggestion, at one stage, that she had caused the 
damage.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that the 
independent report Mrs S had obtained was compelling  in regard to the manufacturing  faults it 
described, indicating the suite wasnt fit for purpose, mainly from a structural point of view.
She thought  the evidence was enough to support Mrs Ss section 75 claim, and there wasnt any 
need for a further report just because  the independent report revealed  more information than Fs 
earlier two reports.
Nationwide had already  agreed  to reimburse  the £275 Mrs S had paid for the independent report. 
Because Mrs S had had the use of the suite for the last four years, the investigator didnt  think it 
would be fair for her to receive  a full refund of the cost of the suite. She thought  a refund  of 40% 
would be appropriate.
She said that any delays by F in dealing with Mrs Ss complaint to it were outside the jurisdiction of 
this service. We could only look at the conduct of Nationwide in dealing  with Mrs Ss complaint  to it 
under section 75. She said Nationwide had contacted Mrs S about her complaint in June 2017. It told 
her in October 2017 that it would require  a further report. So the investigator didnt  think Nationwide 
had unnecessarily delayed matters, given  the time frame  of Mrs Ss complaint.
So the investigator  recommended that Nationwide  pay Mrs S £275 to reimburse  her for the 
independent report, and 40% of the cost of the suite, plus, in each case, interest from the dates  of 
payment by Mrs S.
Nationwide accepted the investigators recommendation. Mrs S responded to say, in summary,  that:
the investigator had acknowledged the independent report was evidence of breach of contract 
by F, and that the suite  wasnt fit for purpose. The investigator also said this usually would  
mean returning the consumer to the position they would  have been in before the breach, 
which could mean a full refund of the purchase price. 
In this case the investigator said Mrs S should only receive a refund of 40% of the cost of the 
suite, because she had used  it for four years. However the evidence was that the faults were 
present at delivery, and the fact she had used it for four years was because of the difficulty in 
getting first F and then Nationwide to accept responsibility  for the faulty suite.
Ref: DRN00907525So she said Nationwide should reimburse the full purchase  price.
she disagreed  that Nationwide hadnt  caused unnecessary delays. She said Nationwide had 
prevaricated from early  September  2107 until it issued its final response in January  2018 
about the evidence  it needed to support her claim. This, on top of the treatment she had 
already received from F and Nationwide  increased the stress  she had suffered as a result of 
the faulty suite.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering Mrs Ss complaint, I need  to consider  the following three questions:
1.Was there a breach of contract by F in relation to the sale of the suite  for which Nationwide  is 
liable to Mrs S under  section  75?
2.If so, what  is it fair and reasonable for Nationwide  now to pay Mrs S?
3.Should I require Nationwide to compensate  Mrs S for the way it handled her claim?
1.Was there a breach  of contract  by F in relation to the sale of the suite  for which Nationwide  is liable 
to Mrs S under section 75?
As the investigator has said, F doesnt fall within  the jurisdiction  of this service. So while I have read 
all Mrs S has said about the way F handled her initial  complaint to F, I cant  consider this as part of 
this complaint. 
Mrs S bought what the independent report described as a premium brand  of suite from a reputable  
high street department store. Having read the report, I agree that the number and nature of the 
manufacturing defects were such that it wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose when it was 
supplied. So I find there was a breach of contract by F for which Nationwide is liable to Mrs S under 
section 75.
2.What is it fair and reasonable for Nationwide  now to pay Mrs S?
I understand that Mrs S wanted the issues she had raised to be sorted much sooner. It wasnt  her 
choice that it would take more than four years to reach this stage, and in the meantime she would 
continue to use a suite that wasnt of the standard she was entitled to expect.
She says that because of Fs breach of contract in supplying a suite that was faulty and not fit for 
purpose at the time of delivery, she should be put in the position  she would have been in if the breach 
hadnt occurred, which means  she should receive  a full refund.
If four years  ago she had stopped using  the suite and put it in her garage,  or in a skip, I agree that she 
would have had no benefit from it. So it would  have been reasonable for me to require Nationwide  to 
refund the whole cost of the suite. However  she has continued to use the suite for the past four years, 
even though it wasnt  as she wanted.
The investigator recommended  that Nationwide refund 40% of the cost with Mrs S having  to stand  the 
remaining 60%.  I think the refund should be higher  60%. There  isnt a precise  formula for working  
this sort of thing  out. However I cant ignore,  and must take account  of, the use Mrs S has had of the 
suite (although I accept  it isnt as she hoped it would  be).
Id expect a good quality suite to last some  ten years or so before it needed to be recovered  or 
replaced. Im sure Mrs S hoped she would  have use of the suite for that sort of length of time. But 
Ref: DRN00907526shes only had four years  use up till now. So I think she should only have to pay 40% of the cost of the 
suite, with Nationwide refunding 60%.
Given her general dissatisfaction with the suite, I think its likely  Mrs S will want  to dispose of it once 
this dispute is settled.  So I think my revised award fairly reflects her use of the suite  to date. 
3.Should I require Nationwide  to compensate Mrs S for the way it handled her claim?
Nationwide rejected  the first section 75 complaint Mrs S brought to it in September 2015. I cant say it 
acted unreasonably  at that point because the only reports available  then didnt indicate  any 
manufacturing faults.
Mrs S complained again in June 2017. This time she had a full independent  report which  found 
serious manufacturing  defects  present in the suite. As manufacturing defects they would  have been 
present when  the suite  was delivered to Mrs S. 
I see from Nationwides file that in September 2017 it sent F a copy  of the independent report  and 
invited it to refund  the cost of the suite, but it appears F didnt respond. Nationwide then seems  to 
have had internal discussions about whether the independent report  was enough  to say the suite  was 
faulty when delivered.
It told Mrs S that it wanted  a further report from the Furniture Ombudsman. There was then further 
correspondence with Mrs S which didnt  get anywhere before it issued its final response  to her in 
January 2018.
Nationwide said to the investigator:
This suite was purchased  from [F] and therefore should have  been of a good quality. We are asking 
for a report from the Furniture  Ombudsman to clarify exactly what  is wrong  with the suite and to get 
an unbiased opinion.  We need to be sure that the issues  are purely down to manufacturing and not 
wear and tear.
The independent report  was in my view just that  independent  and so an unbiased opinion. And it 
said the defects it found were down  to manufacturing  not wear  and tear. So it isnt clear  why 
Nationwide asked for the further report. If it was determined it was necessary,  it could have issued its 
final response to Mrs S much earlier  in September or October 2017.
So I dont think Nationwide handled Mrs Ss second complaint as well as it should have,  and this 
caused her further distress  and inconvenience  at that time. I think  Nationwide should pay Mrs S 
compensation of £200 for this.
Ref: DRN00907527my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mrs S or from Nationwide by 26 April 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint  in part. I intend to 
order Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs S:
1.£275,  in reimbursement of the cost of her obtaining the independent  report;
2.£1,887.60, being 60% of the cost of buying the suite from F;
3.compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience its poor handling of her complaint  
has caused her; and
4.interest on items 1 and 2 above at the annual  rate of 8% simple from the respective dates   
Mrs S incurred the expense until settlement.  In the case of item 2 above this should  be taken 
as 27 October 2014, the date she paid the balance  of the cost to F using her credit card.(1)
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)If Nationwide considers that its required  by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0090752