K820x#14complaint
Ms Y complains  that Nationwide Building  Society acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  
discussing a possible porting application  (transfer of a mortgage to a new property) and then 
dealing with that application.  She wants more compensation.
background
Ms Y had a mortgage with Nationwide, which could  be ported to another property even after 
being redeemed  for a period of time after sale. Ms Y did sell her property and wanted to buy 
her relatives property and put it in her sole name with a trust in place. Before applying to 
port her mortgage  to buy the property,  Ms Y spoke to Nationwide and said that she was told 
this would be possible, subject to application. Ms Y made the application.  About a month  
passed, but it wasnt until the day before Ms Y was due to exchange contracts  to buy the 
property from her relatives that Nationwide said the application was outside its lending 
policies and couldnt go ahead.
Ms Y complained to Nationwide. It explained that the issue  was the lifetime  tenancy within  
declaration of trust between Ms Y and her relatives   Ms Y wouldve had the property in her 
name but her relatives wouldve had a beneficial  interest in it. Nationwides  policies didnt 
allow it to lend when  there was a lifetime tenancy  in place. It accepted that it shouldve  done 
more to check the position  when  Ms Y first mentioned the plan for her relatives  to live in the 
property indefinitely and that it had made a mistake  when processing the application. 
Nationwide offered £150 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused,  but refused  to 
refund the early  repayment charge Ms Y paid when she sold the original property as her 
porting application was never going to meet the lending policies due to the lifetime  tenancy. 
It also pointed out that Ms Y didnt receive a mortgage offer,  so it was unlikely she couldve 
exchange contracts or completed when she planned.
Ms Y complained to us. The adjudicators view was that there  wasnt really a dispute about 
what had happened. He thought that Nationwide couldve asked earlier in the process  to 
check the declaration  of trust met its lending policies, but the early  repayment charge was 
always going to be due as the mortgage couldnt be ported to the new property, given Ms Ys 
plans and arrangements  with her relatives. Equally, he thought Nationwide didnt have to pay 
for the declaration of trust as a legal  agreement to set out Ms Ys position and that of her 
relatives was likely to be required.  The adjudicator said the offer of £150 compensation by 
Nationwide was fair and reasonable.
Ms Y disagreed. She said compensation of less than £1000  was insulting and Nationwide 
shouldve told her that the wording of the declaration  of trust had to be acceptable  to it to get 
the mortgage ported as the wording couldve been  amended to be acceptable. The 
adjudicator said that his view hadnt  changed.  Nationwide had told Ms Y that the application 
wouldnt be straightforward when  it spoke to her, which was why it took longer  than usual to 
process her application. The adjudicator also explained that compensation for trouble and 
upset reflected the impact on the individual,  and wasnt considered on the basis  of the 
number of errors. He noted such awards  were  generally modest and it wasnt  for this service 
to punish businesses. Ms Y still wanted  the costs of the declaration of trust paid by 
Nationwide as she said she only did it to progress her porting application; Nationwide 
pointed out that from an early  stage Ms Y had told it that solicitors had been instructed to 
deal with the declaration of trust. The investigator didnt agree with Ms Y.
Ref: DRN01859802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing with the issue of the declaration of trust and its contents first, I dont agree with Ms Y 
that Nationwide is at fault. Its important to step back and look at this matter within its full 
context. Ms Y wanted to buy effectively part of her relatives property and needed  a 
mortgage to do so. The relatives would  live in the property but it would  be moved into Ms Ys 
name. Everyone involved needed to be protected. The best way to do so legally was with a 
declaration of trust. So in any event, Ms Y and her relatives needed a declaration  of trust,  
regardless of Nationwides position.
And it isnt fair or reasonable to expect  a lender to advise or comment  on a trust document 
being prepared  for Ms Y and her relatives. Doing  so could lead to one of the people  involved 
suffering a loss or a disadvantaged position.  A trust should be negotiated  on the basis of 
what has been agreed by those involved. Ms Ys relatives wanted the protection of a lifetime 
tenancy for understandable reasons; I think whatever happened they wouldve wanted that 
protection as its what was put in the declaration of trust and was fundamental to the whole 
arrangement. Due to its lending policies, I dont  think its likely there was a form of wording 
which wouldve been acceptable to Nationwide, without putting  Ms Ys relatives  at risk and 
potentially under duress. In short, I think it was for Ms Y and her relatives to decide  what  
their agreement was and to put that in place without reference to Nationwide.
I dont think its fair or reasonable  in all the circumstances of this case for the early 
repayment charge  to be refunded as Ms Y agreed  to pay it if she repaid the mortgage early 
and the application was in my view likely  to fail because of the need to protect Ms Ys 
relatives position  it couldnt meet Nationwides lending policies.
What about the handling  of the application by Nationwide? I think it did act unreasonably  it 
shouldve asked to see the declaration of trust at a much earlier stage in the process.  But 
given Ms Y was buying the property  from her relatives, I dont think finding out that the 
application had failed the day before contracts  were to be exchanged caused as much upset 
as if third parties were  involved; Ms Y ended up buying a share  of the property anyway and 
the property wasnt  lost.
I also note that while  Nationwide told Ms Y that the application could be considered despite 
the trust arrangements, it never guaranteed that the application would succeed. Ms Y was 
told that she would need to apply  and that the position wasnt  straightforward. This proved to 
be correct, but apart from the delay in asking  to see the declaration  of trust, I dont think  
Nationwide caused  unnecessary delays.  Not all lending policies are disclosed to the public  
and I dont think Nationwide  acted unfairly  or unreasonably by not discussing every single 
possible issue with Ms Y at the outset.
As the adjudicator has explained, compensation for the trouble and upset suffered by Ms Y 
(not her relatives as they werent the potential consumers) is awarded  on the basis of what 
the evidence indicates she suffered. Such awards  arent generally high-value and money 
cant truly put matters  right. Having considered  all the evidence available to me, and the 
circumstances, I accept  Ms Y was upset and frustrated by being told a month into the 
application process that it would fail, and this was caused by Nationwide  not asking to see 
the declaration  of trust earlier.  But I think £150  compensation  is fair and reasonable to reflect 
the trouble and upset suffered by Ms Y in relation to this failing.
Ref: DRN01859803my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Ms Y whether to 
accept the offer of £150 compensation from Nationwide Building Society. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or reject  my decision 
before 2 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0185980