K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
December 2001.  Mr A says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr A bought the policy in December 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  The 
sale took place  by way of a postal application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr A says he wasnt given an option of having  the credit  card without the PPI. He says that 
had he been given a choice, he would  have declined it. So, Ive thought about what hes said 
alongside the additional information Ive seen from Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland has provided  us with a copy of Mr As credit agreement. This shows Mr A 
was given the option of adding the PPI to his account. Under the section  Payment 
Protection Mr A was asked to sign if he wanted the PPI. Looking at Mr As credit agreement, 
I can see he signed next to the statement YES I want  you to arrange Credit Care  Insurance 
to protect  my repayments.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not Mr A would have understood 
the PPI was optional. And I dont think he would have signed  for the cover  if he didnt want  to 
take it out.
Mr A says the PPI was recommended to him. Bank of Scotland  on the other  hand  says it 
didnt make any recommendations  to Mr A about the PPI at the time of sale. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Bank of Scotland assessed Mr As individual needs, such  as his 
employee benefits and made a formal recommendation for PPI, so I think  its unlikely that it 
did. 
As I dont think Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A, it didnt have to check  if 
it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr A got the information  he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN05086452Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr A chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical  conditions  so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr A has told us he didnt need PPI as he would have received generous sick pay from his 
employer. He says he would have been entitled  to at least six months  sick pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. Having thought about what  Mr A has said about his 
sick pay, I dont think  this means he wouldnt  have  found the policy  useful. I say this because 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to the sick pay Mr A would have received from his 
employer and would have paid out for longer. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr A 
was ever made redundant
So overall, I think Mr A could have found  the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better  information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means 
Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr A about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Mr A, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0508645