K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Stonebridge International Insurance Ltd turned down part of her claim 
for hospitalisation benefit  under her personal accident policy. 
background
In July 2017, Ms B had an accident  and fractured her pelvic  ring. She was admitted to 
hospital on 1 August  2017. She remained in that hospital (Hospital  A) for a few days, before 
being transferred  to a different hospital  (Hospital B). Ms B remained in Hospital  B for around 
three weeks, before she was transferred to a third hospital (Hospital  C). She remained in 
Hospital C for just under three weeks. 
The policy pays €300 daily hospitalisation benefit,  so Ms B made a claim under the policy  for 
her three hospital stays.  Stonebridge accepted that Ms Bs admission to Hospital A was 
related to her accident, and paid the claim for this hospital stay.  However,  it turned down 
Ms Bs claim for the other two hospital stays as it thought these  were  for rehabilitation, which  
isnt covered under the policy. Unhappy  with this, Ms B brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part. He thought Ms Bs 
admission to Hospital  B was directly related to her accident, and so recommended  that 
Stonebridge pay the hospitalisation benefit  for this admission. However, he agreed  with 
Stonebridge that Ms Bs admission to Hospital C wasnt covered under the policy. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy  explains that hospitalisation  benefit isnt payable  for rehabilitation. Stonebridge 
says that Ms Bs admissions to Hospital  B and Hospital C were  both for rehabilitation. Ive 
therefore considered  the medical  evidence.  
Admission to Hospital  B
Hospital B provided  a medical certificate that gave  Ms Bs diagnosis as multifactorial gait 
abnormality. The first reason given for that was non-dislocated pelvic  ring fracture  left and 
multiple contusions  following  a fall However,  it also listed  several other reasons, which  
appear to be previous  medical problems Ms B had experienced. 
Hospital B then provided a further  medical certificate  which  said Ms Bs diagnosis was non-
dislocated left pelvic ring fracture and multiple bruises after fall(conservative  management) 
associated with gait disorder.
Stonebridge therefore wrote to Hospital B to find out if Ms Bs hospitalisation was due to 
acute treatment of injuries caused by the accident.
Hospital B responded to say that Ms Bs admission was for geriatric  early  rehabilitation due 
to limitations in her mobility and self-care capabilities following the pelvic  ring fracture  that 
she sustained after a fall. It confirmed that after Ms B received initial treatment of her injury 
in Hospital A, she wasnt able to return  to her previous care structures and so it was decided 
to refer her to geriatric early rehabilitation with Hospital  B. Although  Ms B made some good  
progress, due to persisting  issues  with her mobility and independence, she was transferred 
to Hospital C for further rehabilitation. 
Ref: DRN05478252Based on Hospital Bs further explanation, I think it was reasonable for Stonebridge to 
conclude that Ms Bs admission to Hospital B was for rehabilitation rather than active  
treatment relating to her accident. That being  the case, I disagree with our investigator that 
Stonebridge should accept Ms Bs hospitalisation claim for this admission. Im satisfied that 
Stonebridge was entitled to turn down Ms Bs claim for her admission to Hospital B. 
Admission to Hospital  C
As Ive mentioned  above, the information  from Hospital B is that Ms B was transferred to 
Hospital C for further rehabilitation. 
I see that Ms Bs treatment costs at Hospital  C were covered by her health insurer   their 
letters all refer to the treatment as being  rehabilitation.  
Also, a medical  report written by Hospital C says Ms B had inpatient rehabilitation. And a 
discharge document says measures for medical rehabilitation.
Based on this evidence,  I also think it was reasonable  for Stonebridge to conclude  that 
Ms Bs admission  to Hospital C was for rehabilitation, and therefore not covered under the 
policy.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make, however 
neither party  responded  with anything further they wanted me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, as neither party has provided 
me with any further  comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12  March  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0547825