K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains about problems she had with a used car supplied by Specialist Motor 
Finance Limited  (trading  as Specialist Motor Finance) (SMF)  under a finance  agreement.  
background
Ms G got this car with a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) from SMF in October 2018. She 
noticed some minor damage to the paintwork, a scratched alloy and missing wheel caps  at 
the outset, but the dealer  agreed to fix these and she took the car home.  Ms G expected the 
dealer to carry out the repairs fairly quickly but she found he was hard to get hold of. She 
took the car to a local car wash a few weeks after supply and more  damaged  paintwork 
appeared when the car was cleaned. Ms G lost faith in the dealer and complained  to SMF.  
SMF asked for a repair estimate so Ms G took the car to a third party (that Ill call E) who 
provided a quotation for the job. Then SMF said Ms G had to give the dealer the opportunity 
to fix things first. Ms G took the car back to the dealer where some repairs  were undertaken - 
she accepts the alloy was fixed and the missing wheel caps were supplied  - but she thought  
the paintwork  repairs were of a very poor standard. Ms G took the car back to E who agreed 
the work  was substandard and took photographs. Ms G contacted SMF  again  but it wouldnt  
pay for repairs. Ms G says thats unfair  and she wants to reject the car and cancel the 
finance. 
SMF says the car was six years old at the point of supply  so it couldnt be expected  to be in 
perfect condition. It accepts some paintwork was flaking  and scuffed  when Ms G saw the car 
initially but considers the dealer fixed that along  with other issues.  It says the dealer went  
beyond what could  reasonably be expected by agreeing to repair  the paintwork - as some  
scratches were new - and Ms G accepted the repairs so it shouldnt  have to do anything  
further.
One of our adjudicators considered the evidence. Hes satisfied, from photographs E 
supplied, that the paintwork has multiple blemishes.  He spoke to E who said this was 
probably there when  Ms G got the car and its unlikely to have been  caused after supply. E 
thought the dealer probably  touched up the paintwork but this was stripped away when the 
car was cleaned. 
On balance, our adjudicator thinks the car was probably of unsatisfactory quality  when it was 
supplied and hes satisfied the dealer failed to put things right. He recommends the 
complaint should  be upheld.  He says Ms G should be allowed to reject the car and cancel 
the HPA with no adverse impact on her credit file. He thinks  it is fair she should be paid £100 
compensation for associated inconvenience and upset. But hes not persuaded that any 
monthly payments  should be refunded - given the use she had of the car. 
SMF didnt accept our adjudicators recommendations  so the matter was passed  to me for 
review. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 1 May 2020 where  I said (in summary):-
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I must  have regard to relevant law and 
regulations - amongst other things. Im satisfied that includes  the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
Ref: DRN06017752(CRA) here. SMF supplied  this car under a HPA so theres an implied  term (under the CRA) 
that it would  be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The quality of goods includes 
things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects and safety  
and durability. And goods are of satisfactory  quality  if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would expect taking  all of the relevant circumstances into account  - such  
as the price paid as well as the age and mileage (amongst  other things), in the case of a 
used car. 
According to the HPA this car cost £4,800.  The HPA doesnt say when the car was 
registered or what the mileage was at the point of supply. Ive checked the cars MOT  history  
and this says the car was first registered in September 2012 and it had over 76,000 miles on 
the clock (at an MOT in September 2018)  shortly  before it was supplied  to Ms G. I think  a 
reasonable person would accept that a car of this age and mileage wasnt  going to meet  the 
same standards as a brand new car- as some parts would be worn and need to be replaced 
sooner or later and the exterior  probably wouldnt be perfect  either. This is generally 
reflected in the lower price paid for a used  vehicle.  
Im satisfied that Ms G raised some issues with the dealer when she first saw the car and 
there seems to be no dispute  that the dealer agreed  to put those  right. I think Ms G accepted 
the car on that basis. Ms G has confirmed the alloy was fixed and wheel caps were  supplied 
so I dont need to consider those issues any further  and I think  the crux of the complaint 
relates to damaged paintwork. 
Ms G says she became  aware of more  substantial damage to the paintwork when more 
blemishes appeared  (on doors and the bumper) a few weeks  after supply after she took the 
car to be cleaned. Ive seen SMFs customer contact notes and Im satisfied Ms G contacted 
SMF about  this at the relevant time and SMF said she should provide some evidence.  As far 
as I can see, Ms G then approached E, an independent bodywork specialist, and E checked 
the car. E told our adjudicator that the paintwork was damaged and the nature of the 
damage suggested it was probably present when Ms G got the car but this had been 
touched up so that she didnt see it. 
Ive got no reason to doubt  what E says about  the nature  of the damage present and the 
repairs needed. On balance, I think it is likely this damage was present at the point of supply 
but it was not obvious to Ms G when  she carried out her initial inspection because  it had 
been touched up as E suggests. Given the other issues  Ms G raised at the outset, I think 
shes unlikely to have  failed to notice this damage  - if it had been discoverable on 
reasonable inspection. And Im satisfied the car was probably of unsatisfactory  quality when 
it was supplied. 
Under the CRA SMF has one opportunity to put things right in this situation.  And I think  it 
was reasonable  of Ms G to give the dealer the opportunity to fix things. Ive seen nothing to 
show what the dealer  may have told Ms G about  the nature of those repairs. But, I dont  
think it was unreasonable of her to assume that the paintwork would be brought  up to a 
reasonable standard. E says the work  carried out was poor.  And, looking at the photographs 
E took after the dealer  carried out the work, Im inclined  to agree. I am satisfied that Ms G 
contacted SMF soon  after the dealer repaired the car - and she took the car to E again to be 
checked. I am not persuaded that she accepted the workmanship at the time - as shes  
unlikely to have  taken these steps  if she was happy with the repairs the dealer had done. 
The CRA says (broadly speaking)  consumers retain  a final right to reject  when goods are of 
unsatisfactory quality  on supply  and not fixed within a reasonable time without undue 
Ref: DRN06017753inconvenience to the consumer. Looking  at the photographs, and the estimated cost of 
repairs, I think the paintwork damage seems fairly substantial. Ms G says this was a 
relatively expensive  car for her and she was particular  about the choice of vehicle. I think  
thats supported  by the evidence and shes  unlikely  to have  accepted this car and taken out 
the finance if she had been  able to see this damage at the outset. 
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account,  I am minded to agree with our adjudicator 
that it is fair Ms G should be allowed to reject  the car now. So, I intend to require SMF to 
take the car back  at no cost to Ms G and cancel the finance. We would usually require a 
lender to refund any deposit  paid in this situation but theres no deposit recorded  in the HPA 
and Ms G has confirmed she didnt pay one. I dont know if Ms G had to pay E to check  the 
car. If she did, I think it would be reasonable for SMF to refund the cost of that provided 
Ms G supplies proof of payment. 
Ms G says shes  been able to drive the car throughout  - albeit shes driven  it less than she 
otherwise would as she didnt  enjoy  driving  a car with such  blemished paintwork. Looking  at 
things in the round, I am minded to agree  with our adjudicator that its fair for SMF to retain 
the payments  made under the finance.  But, I think Ms G has probably experienced a good 
deal of distress and inconvenience here. Im satisfied she had to contact the dealer and SMF  
numerous times to try and get things resolved. She also had to take the car to E a number of 
times and back to the dealer for repairs. I think it would be fair and reasonable overall for 
SMF to pay Ms G £200 compensation  to reflect that. 
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
submissions by 1 June 2020. 
my final decision
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
SMF is disappointed with my findings  but it has nothing further to add. Ms G accepts my 
provisional conclusions  and she has confirmed that she did not pay E to check  the car. 
In light of the responses received from the parties,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions.  And I find SMF  should take the car back,  cancel the finance and pay 
Ms G compensation for associated distress  and inconvenience as set out below.    
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and require Specialist Motor Finance Limited (trading 
as Specialist Motor  Finance) to 
1.cancel the finance with nothing  further  owing and mark the agreement as settled on 
Ms Gs credit  file; 
2.arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Ms G; and
3.pay Ms G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN06017754Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0601775