K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the settlement offer made by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) for two damaged  mattresses under his Insure Your Move (IYM)  policy.
background
Mr A and his family moved from the UK to America in 2017. He took out an IYM policy  with 
RSA to cover him for damage  to his household goods and personal effects in transit.  The  
policy terms and conditions didnt  require Mr A to provide a full itemised  and valued list of his 
household goods and personal effects,  but he was required to list any items, or collection of 
items, valued in excess of £1500.  
The majority of Mr As household goods  and personal effects were delivered  to his new 
home in 2017.  A large number of items were damaged and he made a claim under his IYM 
policy which  was dealt  with by RSA. But two mattresses were missing  from the delivery and 
when they finally arrived, in 2018,  they were damaged, dirty and infested with scorpions. 
Mr A submitted a further claim to RSA under  his IYM policy.  RSA made Mr A an offer of 
£3153.05 for the replacement value of the mattresses which he accepted on 21 June 2018. 
And he made arrangements to dispose of the mattresses. But on 25 June  2018  RSA 
contacted Mr A to advise  him that, as he hadnt  declared the mattresses  were  worth more 
than £1500, this was the limit of his cover under the policy.
Mr A complained to RSA as he felt they should  honour the initial offer of £3153.05. RSA 
werent prepared  to reconsider their decision, although they apologised that the initial offer 
didnt take into account the policy limit. Mr A then complained to our service.  Our investigator 
recommended RSA pay Mr A £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
RSA didnt agree so the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has suffered losses arising  from damage caused during the transportation of his 
household goods and personal effects  from the UK to America. Although  RSA provided 
cover for such damage, its important to remember they werent responsible  for causing  the 
damage. That responsibility rests  with the removal company. RSAs  responsibility is to deal 
with Mr As claim  for damage to his belongings  in accordance with the terms and conditions  
of his policy.
The policy states  that any individual item or collection of items, with a value of more  than 
£1500, should be listed on the application form and should form part of the overall value 
declared. And unless  such  items have been  declared RSA will only pay a maximum of 
£1500, regardless  of the value of the items. I think this policy  term is clearly  set out on RSAs  
website and dealt  with in the FAQs sent to Mr A as part of his policy  pack.
I think Mr A was aware of the need to listed items  valued at more  than £1500,  as hed listed  
items of clothing and furniture worth more than this.
Ref: DRN03368062When Mr A made his claim for the two damaged mattresses this was assessed by RSA and 
he was sent an email on 21 June 2018  making  an offer of £3153.05 in settlement of his 
claim. He was told this would be paid into his bank account and RSA would be closing their 
file. Mr A has told us he was happy  with this offer and arranged to dispose of the mattresses. 
But on 25 June 2018, four days after the original offer was made, RSA sent a further email to 
Mr A saying the mattresses hadnt  been  declared as a high value  item,  so the policy  limit of 
£1500 applied, he should disregard the earlier settlement offer, and theyd be making a 
payment of £1500.
When an insurer makes an offer to settle a claim, the insured has a reasonable expectation 
that if he accepts that offer, the insurer will then pay that amount. So I have sympathy when 
someone is later told by the insurer that their initial offer was incorrect  and in fact they would 
be paying a lower amount than previously offered. However this doesnt  automatically mean 
the insurer is bound to pay the initial offer, even  if that offer has been accepted. It will 
depend on the individual circumstances of the case.
In this case four days after RSA made  an offer of £3153.05,  they contacted Mr A to advise 
him a mistake had been made, and as the policy  limit hadnt been  taken  into account theyd 
be making a payment of £1500. 
RSA withdrew its initial offer four days after making  it. Mr A has told us if hed known  RSA 
wouldnt be covering  the full replacement  cost of the mattresses,  hed have looked into the 
possibility of having them professionally cleaned, rather  than replacing them.  So he says 
hes been denied  the opportunity to do this as he arranged to dispose  of the mattresses 
once he received RSAs  initial offer. 
Mr A first contacted RSA about making  a claim for the mattresses on 17 April 2018. He 
described them as arriving  in a terrible state  and on the delivery note he was given its 
stated mattresses severely damaged and dirty.
I can see two quotations for cleaning the mattresses were  obtained  in April 2018, before 
Mr A submitted his claim to RSA. These werent  obtained by Mr A.
On 22 May 2018 Mr A sent RSA photographs of the damaged mattresses. Hed already 
replaced the double mattress,  so hed sent a copy of the purchase invoice and details of the 
replacement cost of the super king mattress. In his accompanying email  he told RSA he was 
concerned the mattresses were infested  with scorpions and he was anxious to dispose of 
them and get his home fumigated.
So when RSA sent the revised offer for the mattresses one of them, the double mattress  had 
already been replaced. But, I need  to consider  whether its likely Mr A would have had the 
super king mattress cleaned, had he known RSA wouldnt pay the full replacement  cost. 
Given all the information Mr A had provided  prior to RSA advising  him the claim would be 
limited to the policy limit of £1500 Im not persuaded that he would have. 
The mattress was delivered in a dirty and damaged condition, in such  a poor condition  that 
this was noted on the delivery form by the driver who delivered it. Mr A believed the mattress 
was infested with scorpions and in May 2018 hed told RSA he was anxious  to dispose of 
both mattresses and have his house fumigated. Mr A has told us that had he known RSA 
were going  to renege on their original offer, despite  the horrendous condition  of the 
mattresses he would have looked  into getting them deep cleaned. But the mattresses  
werent just dirty, they were damaged and infested with scorpions,  according to Mr As own 
Ref: DRN03368063evidence. Based on such evidence Im not persuaded cleaning  of the mattresses to restore  
them to a usable condition would have been possible. And RSA had already dismissed the 
possibility of cleaning,  saying the mattresses needed to be replaced.
So while I appreciate his disappointment that he didnt receive the original amount offered, I 
dont think Mr A would  have had the mattresses  cleaned if RSA had initially offered him 
£1500. So I dont think Mr A has been prejudiced  by RSAs  mistake. 
But just as RSA say Mr A should have been aware of the policy limit of £1500,  I think  they 
should have considered this before making a settlement  offer to him. And as a result of 
RSAs mistake Mr A suffered distress and inconvenience and for this they should  pay him 
£100.
my final decision
So my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance  Plc and 
to put things right I require  them  to pay him £100 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0336806