K820x#14Complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Premier packaged bank  account. In summary  they say that Lloyds shouldve  provided 
clearer information when  it was sold to them as they were led to believe that Mrs B would 
also be covered by the benefits it provided,  even though she lived at a different address.
Mr B and Mrs B have also complained that, when Mrs B went to rely on the Premier account  
home emergency cover, she was initially told that she wasnt covered. They say that after 
various telephone calls and visits to a Lloyds branch, it was eventually established that she 
was covered. 
Mr B and Mrs B say theyre unhappy  because Mrs B was left without heating  or hot water for 
four days  in November  2018.
Background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she didnt  think that the Premier  
account had been mis-sold. And she didnt  think that Lloyds was responsible for the 
difficulties that Mrs B experienced when she went to claim on the home emergency cover.
Mr B and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment and asked for an ombudsman  
to consider the complaint.
Findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website. And Ive used that to 
help me decide  this case.
Firstly Ive considered whether the Premier account was mis-sold. I understand that Lloyds 
recommended Mr B upgrade to the Premier  account. This meant  it had to check that it was 
right for him. And looking at his use of the various  benefits it came with, Im satisfied that 
Lloydss recommendation was appropriate in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr B believes it to be mis-sold because he shouldve  been given clearer  
information about it, as he was led to believe that Mrs B would also be covered by the 
benefits if he added her to the account. However,  Mrs B was covered by the account 
benefits, including the home emergency  cover, despite living at a different  address. So I 
dont think the information Lloyds gave  him and Mrs B about the account was misleading or 
incorrect.  
So, whilst I understand  Mr B and Mrs Bs frustrations when Mrs B went to claim on the home 
emergency cover, Ive not seen anything  to suggest that the Premier account  was mis-sold.
Turning to Mr B and Mrs Bs concerns about the claim, I think it will help to explain that as 
this complaint is against Lloyds, I can only consider whether Lloyds did anything  wrong  or 
caused unnecessary  delay  in relation to Mrs Bs claim. In other words, as much  as Mr B and 
Mrs B may want me to, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for any mistake or failing made by the 
home emergency benefit provider. As such, I am limited  to considering to what  extent, if any, 
Lloyds was responsible for the delay  and distress caused when Mrs B was unable  to claim 
on the home emergency benefit.
Ref: DRN07656632Firstly, I note that Mr B and Mrs B raised  another complaint against the home emergency 
benefit provider.  And they (the home  emergency provider) admitted to incorrectly  saying, 
more than once,  that Mrs B wasnt covered   when she was. With this in mind, Ive looked 
carefully at Mr Bs and Mrs Bs recollection of events surrounding the claim and the 
supporting information theyve  been able to provide.
Mr B and Mrs B say that they called  Lloyds a number of times, on two different telephone 
numbers, and were told multiple  times that Mrs B wasnt covered. Mr B has helpfully 
provided an itemised phone bill, so I dont doubt  that they did call up about the claim on 
those numbers.
The numbers Mr B called were the Premier  account  helpline and a Premier account  home  
emergency claims line. When  calling  the helpline, you are presented with an automated  
menu, whereby  you select a number depending on which  account  benefit you want to use. 
However, once you dial the number for the relevant  benefit, the caller  is actually  put through 
to the benefit provider   as they (and not Lloyds) are responsible for dealing with any claims 
the account holder wants to make. 
Mr B says they spoke  to Lloyds several times using those telephone numbers. Yet Lloyds 
says it has no record of receiving those calls. And in Mr B and Mrs Bs other complaint, the 
benefit provider  says it did receive a number of phone calls about this matter from them.  
Importantly, it admits  to saying that Mrs B was not covered during telephone calls it received 
on 6 and 7 November 2018.  And they say that - after a number  of telephone calls - they 
eventually logged the claim on their system on 8 November 2018  and an engineer was sent 
out on 9 November 2018. Therefore, whilst Mr B and Mrs B may well have spoken to Lloyds 
at some point during  the various telephone  calls that were made, based on all of the 
evidence that has been provided, I think it was most likely the benefit provider who - 
repeatedly - incorrectly told them that Mrs B was not covered. 
Mr B also says that he raised  a complaint with Lloydss complaint department, and it 
confirmed the following  day that Mrs B was covered. Lloyds has not provided  evidence of 
this earlier  complaint. But if that was the case, then I think Lloydss complaint department 
were able to look into their concerns and confirm Mrs B was covered  within  a reasonable 
time frame. 
Because of this, I dont think Lloyds is responsible for the times Mr B and Mrs B were told 
over the phone that Mrs B wasnt covered by the home emergency  cover.
Mr B has also given  detailed recollections  of them  visiting a Lloyds Branch. Lloyds has no 
records of these visits, so I only have Mr Bs and Mrs Bs recollections to go by to establish 
what I think was likely  to have happened. Unfortunately, Mr B and Mrs B have given us 
differing testimony  about when exactly they visited the Lloyds Branch.
In a recent  email to our service, Mr B has provided  notes which suggest that on the day 
Mrs Bs boiler broke down, she went to a Lloyds Branch and was told she wasnt  covered.  
Mr B says he then attended  branch with Mrs B later the same day and was then told they 
(i.e. the branch staff) werent sure if Mrs B was covered  or not as she lived at a separate 
address to him.
Ref: DRN07656633But in a letter Mr B sent to our service (that we received  on 8 July 2019) he says that on the 
day Mrs Bs boiler broke down, Mrs B made a call to claim on the home emergency benefit 
and was told she wasnt covered. And it was following that call that she attended the Lloyds 
branch and was told by the staff that they werent  sure if she was covered, and suggested  
she call the benefit  helpline again  to check.  Mr B says that Mrs B called again and was again 
refused cover. He says that Mrs B went back to the branch and was assured Mrs B was 
covered.
Given the differing  recollections that have  been  provided regarding branch visits, I cant say 
that its more likely than not that Mr B or Mrs B were  told by branch staff that Mrs B wasnt  
covered. 
It does appear that the staff at the branch may not have initially known for sure whether 
Mrs B was or wasnt  covered. And although  Mr B is clearly  unhappy  that the branch staff 
may not have initially known  for sure, I think that directing Mr B and Mrs B to call the benefit 
provider (via the Premier account benefit  helpline) was not an unreasonable  thing to do - as 
the benefit providers should know the intricacies of how their own policies work and who is 
and isnt covered  by them. 
As such,  whilst I think it is unfortunate if the branch  staff did not initially know for sure if 
Mrs B was covered (although it looks like they did go on to confirm  that she was), all the 
information Mr B, Mrs B, Lloyds  and the benefit  provider  has given us points to the wrong 
information being issued by the benefit provider  rather than Lloyds. And as far as I can see, 
it was the benefit  provider  repeatedly saying that Mrs B wasnt  covered that caused the 
delay  and subsequent distress and inconvenience - in her home emergency claim not 
being dealt with when it shouldve been. 
Therefore, I think it would be inappropriate to require  Lloyds to pay Mr B or Mrs B 
compensation for the delays and subsequent  distress that they suffered, because of the 
failings of a third party. And as Ive said above,  I dont  think  the Premier account was mis-
sold either.
I appreciate that this decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr B and Mrs B, and I can 
see that they feel strongly about  this matter.  But I hope my decision explains the reasons 
why Im unable to uphold their complaint  against Lloyds.
Final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0765663