K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains about how Tesco Personal Finance PLC managed her credit  card account.
background
Mrs R had a credit card account with Tesco. She felt it had been charging her unfairly, and it 
had raised her credit limit without her asking.  She said shed asked it to refund charges, and 
complained about it increasing her limit. She said she told it then that shed been diagnosed 
with depression, and had been struggling  to make her payments. But she said Tesco  told 
her that it thought  the charges were fair, and it promptly  increased  her credit limit again. 
Tesco wrote  to Mrs R about her complaint on 20 June 2018.  It thought  that the fees it had 
applied were fair and justified. It said it would always assess the affordability of any new 
credit limit for Mrs R, before it offered an increase. It said that her credit  limit was now 
£5,700. She could contact it to opt out of increases if she wanted to, or to reduce the limit. 
And Tesco pointed  out that Mrs Rs next minimum payment, due by 30 June, was for more 
than her direct debit was set to pay. It said she would need to make an additional  payment.  
Tesco said that if Mrs R was having difficulty making  this payment, she could contact its 
customer support team.
Tesco has written to our service a number  of times about this case. Ill summarise briefly 
what it has told us.
Tesco told us Mrs R had opened  her card account  in June 2015, when her credit  limit was 
£4,700. It said she paid no charges up until June 2016, although she paid some  interest. 
Tesco said that Mrs Rs credit limit was increased on 10 March  2017, to £5,700. Between 
June 2016 and June 2017 she had paid £72 in charges. Between  June 2017 and June 2018, 
she had paid £96 in charges. 
Tesco also told us that Mrs R rang it on 14 February  2017, to say that she was over her 
agreed credit limit, and couldnt pay the full amount to bring  her account back within the limit, 
in one go. Shed rung again on 16 February about this problem, but Tesco said then that her 
credit limit had been increased to £5,700. Tesco later told us that the 2017 increase took 
effect from 17 February. Internal documentation  sent by Tesco about a credit limit increase 
rollout to multiple  customers  in early 2017  says increases were made on 17 Feb 2017.  (So 
Tesco has given us three different dates for when this credit  limit increase took effect.)
Tesco didnt  draw  our attention to a second  credit limit increase in 2018,  but it sent us 
statements showing it increased  Mrs Rs limit again, just after she made this complaint. 
Tesco said that it didnt  know before  Mrs R made this recent complaint, that she had been 
diagnosed with depression. 
Tesco also told us Mrs R had held her account since June 2015.  It said during this period 
she had never paid her account late or missed  a payment. And it said Mrs R had never  
contacted it to say that she was struggling to make payments or would struggle in the future. 
Tesco also sent us Mrs Rs statements, which did show late payments, and instances of 
Mrs R being over her credit limit, sometimes for a prolonged period. 
Ref: DRN00708712Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Rs complaint.  She didnt  think Tesco  had wrongly applied  
charges to Mrs Rs account.  She didnt think that it had done anything  wrong  when it raised 
her credit limit. And she didnt think Tesco knew before 14 June 2018 that Mrs R was in 
financial difficulties. She said that Tesco had already taken a decision to increase Mrs Rs 
credit limit at that time. Our adjudicator didnt think Tesco had treated Mrs R unfairly.  
Mrs R didnt agree with that. She said that she hadnt requested the credit limit increases, 
and hadnt been given  the opportunity to refuse them. She didnt think that her ability to pay 
had been taken into account. Mrs R wanted  her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Tesco gave us conflicting information  about  Mrs Rs account. And it shared with our 
service a number of assessments of how Mrs R has conducted her account, which didnt 
seem to me to be supported by the account  statements that it showed  us. 
-The statements Tesco  sent us showed  Mrs R was over her credit  limit on her 10 January 
2017 statement. From  earlier statements, it appeared as if she went over her limit in mid-
December 2016, not long after her December statement was issued.
-Tesco sent us internal  documentation about  a credit limit increase which  took effect for a 
number of its customers on 17 February  2017. Although Tesco also mentioned other 
dates, I thought this was likely  to be when  Mrs Rs 2017 credit limit increase took effect. 
-According to Tescos internal documentation  covering  that 2017 credit  limit increase, 
Mrs R was sent a direct mail on 13 January 2017, offering her a limit increase. 
-Tescos internal documentation says it then retracted some of the offers of credit  limit 
increases that it had made to customers,  on 10 February 2017. But there was no 
suggestion that it retracted Mrs Rs offer, despite the fact that she was over her limit on 
the previous statement, and her direct debit which was due on 30 January, had failed. 
-Mrs Rs minimum payment was due on 30 January. She paid £100 by card on 6 
February. That was late, and well below the minimum payment required. Her direct debit 
was retried on 8 February. This showed as a credit on her statement dated 10 February.  
This credit brought this account  back within its limits.  
-But her March statement showed  that this direct debit was reversed. So, although  the 
statement issued on 10 February  2017 showed Mrs R as back within  her credit limit, she 
wasnt. The direct  debit  payment  which had brought her back within her credit limit was 
unsuccessful. It had been immediately  reversed, and she was back over her limit again.
-Mrs Rs credit limit was increased  by £1,000 on 17 February 2017. She was over her 
credit limit when this increase was offered and when  it was applied.
-The FCA handbook  sets out circumstances  where a credit card company  should not 
offer a credit card increase. The specific examples given there  didnt fit Mrs Rs 
Ref: DRN00708713circumstances at the time of the 2017  credit limit increase. But our service also has 
regard to the guidance on credit  limit increases produced by the UK Credit  Cards 
Association. That guidance is clear  that unsolicited credit limit increases should  not be 
offered by issuers  where the balance currently exceeds the credit limit.
-Mrs Rs card balance was over her credit  limit when the 2017 increase  was offered, and 
when it was applied.  So I thought  that Tesco made a mistake  when  it offered Mrs R that 
credit limit increase  in January 2017, and when  it didnt then retract that offer.  
-Mrs R went  over her new,  larger credit  card limit again on statements for July, August 
and September  2017. Her July 2018  statement showed a limit increase to £6,700.
-The UK Cards Association  guidance suggests  a number  of risk indicators that a credit 
card company should have regard to, before making  an increase. One of those is 
instances of exceeding  credit limits. Mrs R had been  over her credit limit on three  of the 
twelve statements issued in the year before her credit limit was increased again. 
-Most  worryingly,  Tesco apparently received a call from Mrs Rs husband in June 2018. 
(Mrs R was present, and asked  him to represent  her.) The call was to complain about the 
fact that Mrs R had been offered another credit  limit increase. Tesco  then received an 
email dated 14 June complaining about the offered  increase, and saying Mrs R was on 
medication for depression. But Tesco went ahead with the offered increase. 
-Tesco wrote  to Mrs R in response  to her complaint on 20 June. It said then her credit 
limit was still at its previous level of £5,700. It said she could always reject a credit  limit 
increase, or ask for it to be returned to its previous  level. But it wasnt  clear why Tesco  
didnt treat either Mr Rs call (made with her permission and while  she was present) or 
the later email as a request  to do just that. It was difficult to understand, after this 
complaint and Tescos  response,  why Mrs Rs statement of 10 July 2018 showed  an 
increased limit of £6,700.
-I thought Tesco made  another  mistake  when it increased Mrs Rs credit  limit in July 
2018. It had acted against Mrs Rs clearly  and repeatedly expressed wishes.
-Because I didnt  think Tesco shouldve increased Mrs Rs credit limit from £4,700  on 17 
February 2017, I thought Tesco should  pay Mrs R back all the interest shed paid on 
debts above this amount since then. And it should pay her back  any fees or charges she 
has paid during this period. 
-I thought Tesco had caused  Mrs R some distress by raising her credit limit in 
circumstances where  it wasnt appropriate to do so. And in particular I thought it mustve 
been extremely distressing for Mrs R to find, after she told Tesco she didnt want  any 
more credit limit increases, and about the illness she attributed to her financial problems, 
it then raised her credit  limit again  by £1,000  almost  immediately. So I thought Tesco  
should pay Mrs R some compensation.  I thought  that it should pay Mrs R £500.  
-In the light of Mrs Rs concerns about the level of her debt to Tesco,  I thought  Tesco 
should use both the refund and the compensation payment to reduce Mrs Rs debt to it. 
-I said that Mrs R might then wish to reduce her credit limit to a lower level.  I would expect 
Tesco to action that request promptly, if it is made.
Ref: DRN00708714I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs R got in touch to say that she accepted my decision. Tesco wrote to object.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Tesco looked at each of the increases  in turn. Ill respond to what it said on the first, before 
considering the second.
Tesco referred to a call recording in which Mrs R didnt  object to the first increase on her 
account in February  2017. And it said that an instance of going over a credit limit is a risk 
indicator, but not necessarily a sign that Mrs R was experiencing financial difficulty. Tesco  
said Mrs R had had no issues with the account  before  she went  over her limit in December 
2016. So this instance of being over limit was out of character  for Mrs R, and was only one 
factor of many that it used  to make a decision.
Tesco said the increase was due to take effect on 17 February 2017, but it actually 
happened on 16 February 2017.  Tesco said when the increase was applied,  Mrs R wasnt  
over the limit and hadnt been  for several days. So it said it had complied with the guidelines.
I dont think thats  right.  Firstly, the increase was offered at a time when Mrs R was over her 
credit limit, which in itself breaches  the guidelines. And secondly, I dont accept that Mrs R 
wasnt over her limit when the increase was applied. 
Tesco argued that the limit increase actually took effect on 16 February.  Thats presumably 
because it wasnt until 16 February  that a direct  debit which had been  wrongly  credited to 
Mrs Rs account, was removed. 
Ive considered the argument Tesco is making, but even if the limit was raised on 16 
February, Mrs R was only not over her limit at that time because Tesco hadnt promptly  
reversed a failed  direct debt. I wouldnt accept that Tescos failure to accurately record  the 
position of Mrs Rs account at that time means  that it complied with the relevant guidelines. 
I still think Tesco made a mistake when it increased  Mrs Rs credit  limit in February  2017.  
Tesco said before the second increase in 2018, Mrs R had been  maintaining  her account 
well. It said Id referred to an email from Mrs Rs husband on 14 June 2018,  but it wouldnt 
be able to make any changes to an account without being able to identify  Mrs R. Tesco said 
it asked Mrs R to call the customer  service  team if she wanted her credit  limit reduced. 
Tesco said Id also referred  to a call that took place before this email  with Mrs Rs husband,  
but it had no record  of this. It showed  us its note of calls it has taken from Mrs R, so I could 
see theres no record. Tesco said that if it had been able to complete  security with Mrs R on 
a call, then it wouldve  reduced the credit limit at her request.
Mrs R hasnt shown us evidence of a call. She has shown us an email  that summarises  the 
call. I think Tesco read that email,  because its letter to Mrs R notes that your husband 
explained the outstanding  balance has caused you a great  deal of worry and you are 
unhappy we have considered increasing your credit limit. 
Ref: DRN00708715Tesco said it didnt know about  Mrs Rs illness. But the email  Mrs R showed us told Tesco 
about that. And that seems  to me to be the same  email  that Tesco referred to in its letter to 
her. So I think its more likely that it did know she was unwell, and that she blamed that on 
financial worries.
Tesco also said it couldnt agree that it had been asked to stop the increase or reduce the 
current limit. But its own letter clearly states that its been told about Mrs Rs concerns. 
Because I think Tesco was aware  of Mrs Rs concerns about a limit increase, I think  it had 
two options, when it wrote to her. It couldve  said there that it had taken  steps to stop the 
limit increase on Mrs Rs account.  Or it couldve explained to Mrs R why it hadnt  been able 
to do that and then set out for Mrs R how she could  stop the increase.
Tesco didnt  do either of those things. It issued  a letter on 20 June  2018,  that didnt make  
clear the proposed increase was going  ahead. It just said your credit limit remains  at 
£5,700. Mrs Rs limit was then raised by £1,000  less than three weeks  later.  
I still think Tesco made a mistake when it did that. And for those reasons, I continue  to think 
that the award I proposed  in my provisional decision is appropriate in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC must  refund onto Mrs Rs card 
account all the interest  that has been  accrued on debts above £4,700 between 17 February  
2017 and the date of this final decision.  And it should pay her back  any fees or charges that 
have been accrued between 17 February 2017 and the date of this final decision.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC must  also pay Mrs R £500 in compensation. 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC must  use both the refund and the compensation payment to 
reduce Mrs Rs debt to it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0070871