K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
 
background
Miss B was given 11 loans by QuickQuid between June 2015 and April 2018. Loans 4, 
6, 7 and 10 were topped up. Miss B was unable to repay the last loan and a balance 
remains outstanding.  
Miss Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  that 
QuickQuid should  have agreed  to lend to Miss B after,  and including,  the top up to loan 6 
that she was given on the 28 October 2016. So she asked QuickQuid to pay Miss B 
some compensation.
QuickQuid didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of 
our process. If Miss B accepts my decision it is legally  binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  
to complaints about short-term lending - including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website  so I dont need to repeat it in full in my decision. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Miss B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN00244092There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to 
establish whether  Miss B could sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be 
able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well 
as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows  that a lender should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments  
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
The repayments on Miss Bs first four loans were relatively modest  compared  to the 
income that she declared to QuickQuid. And although she was late making a repayment  
on her second loan I dont think that should  necessarily have given QuickQuid significant 
concerns about  her financial  situation. So given Miss Bs repayment  amounts, what  was 
apparent about  her circumstances at the time,  and her history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for QuickQuid to ask her for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss B provided or the information 
QuickQuid shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think QuickQuid was wrong to give these four 
loans to Miss B.
At the point of loan 5 I think QuickQuid should have carried out some  further  checks to 
verify what Miss B was saying about her income  and outgoings given her pattern of 
borrowing. But as Miss B hasnt been able to provide  her bank statements from this 
period I cant say that these checks would have revealed anything  that meant the 
lending should  not have  been given.
But, looking  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids  lending history with Miss B, I think by 
the time Miss B asked  to top up loan 6 the lender should reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have 
realised that it shouldnt provide any further  loans.  
I say this because:
By the time Miss B asked for the top up to loan 6 shed been borrowing from 
QuickQuid for a lengthy period and she wasnt making any inroads to the amount 
she owed the lender.  
Ref: DRN00244093From  loan 5 onwards  Miss B was borrowing regularly  and repeatedly from 
QuickQuid. So QuickQuid  ought  to have realised  by the time Miss B asked to top 
up loan 6 it was more likely than not Miss B was having to borrow  further to cover 
the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances  and that Miss Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Although there were  some gaps, between  Miss B repaying a loan and asking to 
borrow again, I dont  think it would have been reasonable for QuickQuid to 
conclude these  were  any indication that Miss Bs finances had moved on from 
whatever situation had required  her previous loans. 
I think that Miss B lost out because  QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from the 
top up to loan 6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an 
extended period  of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Miss Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the top up to loan 6 and all subsequent loans and 
QuickQuid should  put things right.
putting things right
I dont think QuickQuid should have agreed  to lend to Miss B after, and including, the 
loan that she took on 28 October  2016 (the top up to loan 6). So for each of those loans 
QuickQuid should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss B on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from the top up to loan 6 onwards means any information  
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about the top up to loan 6 through  to 
11 should be removed  from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. 
QuickQuid must give Miss B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
If Miss B still owes QuickQuid any of the principal balance she borrowed on her final 
loan, QuickQuid may deduct this from the compensation  that is due to her. But, to be 
clear, that outstanding  balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and 
charges, but taking  account of any repayments Miss B has made  on that loan as though  
they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
Ref: DRN00244094my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct CashEuroNet  UK 
LLC to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0024409