K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that services  he paid for using  a credit card financed  by MBNA Limited were 
misrepresented. He brings  his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and 
wants a full refund of payments.
background
Mr K tells us that in 2015 he paid a company  Ill call G to help him with a visa application. 
Mr K says he made four payments totalling  £1,440 using his credit  card.  He states hes now 
been told that his application  failed - without consideration  - as time limits  expired.  Mr K feels 
that G misrepresented its services as he says it promised his application would be approved 
within six to twelve months.
MBNA told us it did not think there had been  any misrepresentation. It said the contract Mr K 
had signed with G had clearly stated  that there was no guarantee of a final decision or a 
successful outcome.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said she didnt 
think thered been  a misrepresentation. She said the reference to six to twelve months  
related to how long it would  take if an application was approved. And it was the relevant 
authority which  would make the decision - G was only there to assist  with the application. 
Mr K didnt accept this and said he still thought G had made a false  statement to induce  him 
to use its service. As its not been  possible to reach a resolution an ombudsman has been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr K was disappointed with the service he received when applying for a visa. 
At the time it would have been major  change  in his life - and I can understand why he 
wanted to try to make sure his application  was put forward in the best possible light. Im 
pleased to note that - despite this disappointment - he appears to have moved  on and 
improved his circumstances and is now happily settled  in the United Kingdom. I wish him 
well.
As Mr K has brought this complaint under Section 75 I should explain our approach  to such  
cases. Mr Ks complaint  is about the way in which MBNA handled his claim - so Im not 
dealing directly with the merits of any underlying  claim he may have against G. Im deciding 
if I think MBNA dealt fairly with his claim. I should also explain  that whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. And where  evidence is unclear or incomplete as 
some of it is here I have  to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Section 75 potentially applies where a consumer uses  certain  types of credit  to purchase 
goods and/ or services.  And it says that where theres a breach of contract  and/or 
misrepresentation a consumer  has a like claim against the supplier of finance  as they 
would against  the supplier  of the goods and/or services.
Ref: DRN06097282A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact - on which the consumer relies  - and is 
thereby induced into entering into the agreement. Mr K is alleging  G made false  statements - 
so its important to look at what was said beforehand as well as what was written down in the 
agreement.
Mr K received an email  from G in November 2015  prior to entering the agreement.  This 
contained details  of the requirements for applying for the visa and the benefits. 
Under the heading HIGHLIGHTS  OF THE PROGRAMME reference was made to various 
features including:
:
6-12 months  approval
Ive also read the contract and the terms and conditions of business  relating to the service 
offered by G and which was signed  by Mr K. It includes  the following:
We cannot  give exact time duration  of the outcome of your case  once it has been  submitted 
to the authorities. G do not guarantee a final decision  on your case,  although we work  with 
you to submit the strongest possible case for you.
Taken as a whole I think its clear  that G is making  it clear that it has no control  over time 
limits and theres no guarantee an application will be successful.  And I think  anyone using a 
service such as that offered by G would know, or ought reasonably to know,  that its the 
authorities of the country to which application  is made - and not G - that determines  the 
outcome and the time any decision takes to make. So the reference  to 6-12 months  approval  
does not, in my opinion,  amount to a statement of fact that the process will be completed 
within this period. It merely refers to a timescale in which a successful application would 
typically be completed.
Although I dont think there was a false statement of fact, for completeness, Ill consider  
whether the reference to the 6-12 months  approval induced Mr K into entering the 
agreement. I dont think it did and Ill explain why.
Mr K has said he wouldnt  have entered  into the agreement if G had told him the approval 
time could  be longer.  But Im not aware  he told G that his entering the agreement was 
contingent on his application being  resolved  within a specified time limit. Had he done so its 
likely G would have re-emphasised that it could  not offer any such guarantee.
I think its highly probable that at the relevant time Mr K had decided that he wanted  to apply 
for a visa - and wanted  to ensure his application  was put forward  in the best possible 
manner. So I suspect  it was the quality of his application that would  be uppermost in his 
mind - not the time it would take to process.  And given what seems to me to be his 
determination at that point  to seek a visa, I think its more likely than not hed have entered  
into the agreement  anyway. And I think he knew  that once the application had been 
submitted G would have  no influence on the time factor.
I also note that Mr K first complained to MBNA  in April 2018.  Given he says he thought  his 
application would have been processed in twelve months or so from the time it was 
submitted - Id have  expected him to raise  the issue much earlier if time had been of the 
degree of importance  he now attaches to it.
Ref: DRN06097283Im aware that Mr Ks situation  has changed  significantly  since the application was made. 
And I accept  he probably wouldnt  have  made  a visa application  - or entered the agreement - 
if hed been aware  how his circumstances  were going to improve.  But that sort of reflection is 
made with the benefit of hindsight.
In summary,  I think MBNA has dealt with Mr Ks claim fairly. It sought an explanation from G 
following which, in my view, it reasonably concluded  thered been no misrepresentation. As 
such it was entitled  to decline to further  consider Mr Ks claim under Section 75.
So whilst I know my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr K Im not upholding this 
complaint. My decision does not affect  Mr Ks right to take such action as he may wish to 
consider against  G.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0609728