K821x#15Complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a finance  agreement with Marsh  
Finance & Commercial Ltd (MFC).
background
Mr T entered  into a hire purchase  agreement  with MFC in March  2018 to acquire a seven 
year old car. The mileage on the car was 43,156.  Mr T experienced problems within  a month 
of acquiring it. He took it to a garage  and the ignition coil was replaced on 5 May 2018. All 
the ignition coils and spark plugs were replaced  on 10 May 2018. The mileage of the vehicle 
at this point was recorded as 46,156.
Mr T still had problems  with the car. He took it back  to the garage.  It could  not find the 
problem. It advised Mr T to have diagnostics completed. The mileage at this point was 
46,987.
Mr T had a diagnostic test on 15 June 2018. However, this test was inconclusive  and 
further diagnostics  were required. The recorded  mileage  at this point was 47,235.  Mr T 
had completed a total of 4,079  miles since point of purchase.
As Mr T did not want to pay for any further diagnostics to be carried out, he asked MFC  if he 
could reject the vehicle.  MFC would not agree  to this as the car had passed  an MOT  before 
sale and a pre-delivery  inspection report did not find any issues with the vehicle.
Mr T brought  a complaint  to us to consider. 
The investigator asked  Mr T to have further  diagnostics  to be completed. The diagnostics 
found that the catalytic converter was blocked. As the vehicle had completed less than 5,000  
miles since the point  of purchase,  the investigator considered the issue would have  been 
present or at least developing at point of sale.
The investigator  noted Mr T has not used the car since June 2018. He recommended that 
MFC should allow Mr T to reject  the car and refund monthly payments since  June 2018.  
MFC should refund Mr T £441.70  for the failed repairs and diagnostics  that have been 
carried out on his vehicle.  MFC  should  compensate Mr T in the sum of £500 for the distress  
and inconvenience this matter has caused him, his loss of enjoyment and for the further 
inconvenience of Mr T having to look for finance  elsewhere. 
MFC was not happy to accept the investigators recommendation. It said,  in summary, a pre 
delivery inspection  was carried out on the car which was comprehensive. No issues  relating 
to the catalytic converter  were identified. There was no loss of acceleration or misfire during 
the road test. The car was serviced at 42,000 miles on 24 May 2017.  The mileage  on 
handover was 43,156. No issue with the catalytic converter was noted during the service. 
The car was inspected in September 2017  and no issue was found then. 
The car was used without problem until May 2018. The garage  did not identify a blocked 
catalytic converter when other repairs were carried out. The issue  could have  arisen when 
the garage  did not diagnose a problem with the converter. The fault developed or was 
exacerbated by incorrect diagnosis. Several garages inspected the car and did not identify 
the problem. 
The investigator responded to say that 1,156  miles were covered between the cars last 
service and when  it was handed over to Mr T. Although there  were no comments from 
Ref: DRN02609882the servicing record  that noted issues with the catalytic  converter, it was possible  that 
the issue  would have become  present during this period.
The investigator  noted  that an advisor  from the dealership  had said the issue  would  
have  been  developing  at the point  of sale.  The investigator  considered  that the 
specialist  dealership  was best positioned  to comment  on the problems  with the type of 
car it dealt  with. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T acquired a used  car through a hire purchase agreement  with MFC. Under the 
regulations, MFC can be held liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account  factors  such  as the age and mileage of the 
car. At acquisition the car was seven years old and had a mileage of around 43,156.
Mr T says that he experienced problems with the car shortly after acquiring it. Repairs were 
carried out on two occasions. Problems with the car continued. I note that Mr T took it to 
several garages but they could not find the reason for the issues.  The fault was not 
diagnosed until detailed diagnostics were  carried out. The specialist dealer considered  the 
fault with the catalytic converter  would have been  developing at the point of sale. 
MFC points out that the car had a pre delivery inspection and a service before the car was 
passed to Mr T. No issue with the catalytic converter  was identified.  Several garages also 
could not find a problem  with it when  they inspected  the car in May 2018.  The detailed  
diagnostic test did however find a fault. Given this, and the fact the specialist dealer  
considers the issue  would have  been  present  at the point of sale,  I find the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when  it was supplied to Mr T. The fact that the fault was not apparent  
from the initial checks and inspections of the car does not mean it was not present when Mr 
T acquired the car. Some faults  may only become  apparent  after specialist testing. Given  
that the fault was not apparent until detailed testing, it is not surprising it did not show up on 
the pre inspection delivery  checks. The car was driven for over 1,000  miles after the service 
before the car was passed to Mr T. I find the problem  started  after the service. 
Mr T has not been able to drive the car since June 2018. I consider it is fair that Mr T should 
be allowed  to reject  the car. MFC should  refund the monthly payments Mr T has made under 
the agreement since June 2018.  MFC should  also refund Mr T £441.70 for the failed repairs  
and diagnostics that have  been  carried out on his vehicle.  MFC should compensate  Mr T in 
the sum of £500 for the distress and inconvenience this matter  has caused  him, his loss of 
enjoyment and for the further inconvenience  of Mr T having to look for finance elsewhere.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement of it, Marsh  Finance & Commercial 
Ltd should:
Allow Mr T to reject the car and collect it at no cost to him if Mr T is still in possession  
of it. 
Refund the payments Mr T has made under  the finance agreement since June 2018.
Refund the cost of repairs  in the sum of £441.70
Pay Mr T £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN02609883Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0260988