K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited refused to make repairs  to his 
car under his roadside assistance insurance  policy. He wants  a refund of the repair costs.
background
Mr Ms car wouldnt  start due. He contacted Acromas breakdown service and told it this was 
due to a problem with the battery. An engineer attended and got the car started. Mr M asked 
him about a noise under the bonnet. The engineer  said he should  take the car to a garage.  
Mr M did this but Acromas declined to pay the subsequent repair  costs. It said the policy  only 
covered parts that caused  the car to break down.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
policy excluded faults that werent the cause of the initial  break down.
Mr M replied that the engineer had told him to take the car to the garage.  He said he didnt 
know the cause  of the initial break down.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M is £535 out of pocket due to Acromas decision. He said that the repair  
should be covered  as the engineer included it on his job sheet and he had parts  and garage 
cover. He said hed taken  the car to a garage recommended by the engineer.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive looked at Mr Ms breakdown repair cover policy. It states that its not a warranty  and 
doesnt replace  servicing. I can see that it covers  parts which  had caused the car to break  
down. This is defined as a sudden and unexpected event.  It specifically  excludes  any 
additional faults identified by the attending patrol that are unrelated  to the initial break down.   
Mr M first reported a problem  with his battery. He said he didnt know  what had caused the 
break down.  But I can see from the job sheet that the radio  was draining the battery  and the 
engineer advised turning the engine off and on again to correct  this. 
Mr M then asked  the attending  engineer  about  a noise under the bonnet.  He diagnosed this, 
added a note on the job sheet and advised  Mr M to take his car to a garage  for repair. Ive 
seen Acromas technical teams view that this was unrelated to the initial break  down, the car 
not starting.  Ive not seen any evidence to challenge  this view. So I think it was reasonable 
for Acromas to apply  the exclusion and decline to pay for this further repair.
Mr M said the engineer  had recommended  a specific  garage.  But I cant see this on the job 
sheet. There is a link to a list of local garages. So I cant say the engineer told Mr M to take 
his car to a specific garage for repair and that Acromas should be responsible for this. 
Ref: DRN03106052As it happened, the garage  called Acromas for authorisation which was declined because  
the repair was unrelated  to the initial break down. Mr M then had to pay for the repairs 
himself. But I cant  say this caused  Mr M any loss as he would  have had to pay for the 
repairs in any case.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0310605