K821x#15complaint
Miss S and Mr R complain about  how Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.  
background
Miss S and Mr R were  insured under a travel  insurance policy  provided  by URV.
Miss S was on holiday when, unfortunately, she was injured. URV were notified  about what  
happened and Miss S was admitted to a public hospital later the same day. 
Miss S was diagnosed with a pubic  bone  fracture and was issued with a certificate 
confirming shed be fit to fly (FTF) by air with a stretcher on board  three  days later.  Miss S 
was told by the hospital to remain lying flat and take painkillers,  and was advised against 
returning to her hotel  in the meantime. 
Miss S and Mr R raised concerns with URV  from the outset  about  the conditions  in the public 
hospital. They repeatedly asked URV to arrange for Miss S to either  be moved to a private 
hospital or repatriated  as soon as possible, and also provided a letter  from a consultant  
orthopaedic surgeon in the UK setting out his thoughts on how Miss S should be repatriated. 
Three days after the accident  the same day Miss S had been  certified  as being FTF from  
URV agreed  for her to be transferred to a private  hospital for nursing care while her pain 
settled. 
The transfer to a private hospital happened  five days after Miss Ss accident. Miss S then 
stayed in the private hospital for two days before being repatriated  to the UK in a road 
ambulance. The ambulance journey took nearly  36 hours. 
On her return to the UK, Miss S was admitted to hospital where  she remained for a number 
of days. 
Unhappy, Miss S and Mr R complained to URV. URV didnt respond to their complaint so 
they brought the matter  to this service.
URV offered to pay a total of £1250 compensation to Miss S for the customer service failings 
she experienced. Miss S didnt think this was a fair offer so our investigator  looked into the 
complaint in more  detail  and recommended that URV should pay Miss S a total of £4000  
compensation. She also recommended that URV should pay Mr R £100 compensation. 
Miss S subsequently provided our investigator with another letter  from the consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon in the UK dated 14 January 2019. Our investigator didnt think this letter  
changed her opinion of Miss S and Mr Rs complaint.  
Miss S and Mr R accepted our investigators  recommendations  but URV  didnt.
I made  my provisional decision about this complaint in April 2019. In it, I said;
Ref: DRN01152552I think, broadly, there are two parts to Miss S and Mr Rs complaint.  The first is the 
treatment Miss S received in the public hospital, the length of time Miss S was in the public 
hospital and the impact  this had on both her and Mr R. The second  is the delay in and 
manner of Miss Ss repatriation and the effect of this on her. Ill address both of these issues  
in turn.
Miss Ss stay in the public hospital
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ss policy say URV will only cover the cost of private
treatment if its assistance  service has agreed to this and if there are no adequate public
facilities available.
An insurer  doesnt  have  any control  over the standard of healthcare available  abroad  and
conditions can vary considerably from country  to country.  URV  has said their experience
with the facility in question  is that it provides effective treatment and they have had no
instances of medical  problems  caused  by inappropriate or insufficient care.
I accept what URV  has said about this, and I understand they sometimes have concerns
with private facilities having unregulated staff.
Its clear from the information  Ive seen that Miss S and Mr R were repeatedly raising
concerns with URV about the standard of care being provided from the day of Miss Ss
admission. In particular,  Miss S and Mr R mentioned issues  such  as cleanliness, safety, the
condition of the beds and the level of nutrition being  provided to Miss S. So, Id expect URV
to have given  some thought to whether Miss S was in an adequate hospital which was
suitable for her needs or whether it wouldve been  more appropriate to transfer her
elsewhere.
URV have  now accepted  the aftercare provided by the public hospital was inadequate. They
agreed for Miss S to be transferred to a private hospital three days after her admission to the
public hospital.  I think this was a reasonable decision for URV to make in the circumstances
 but I think it could have taken steps to consider what Miss S and Mr R were  telling them
about the quality of care in the public hospital at an earlier point. If URV had done this, I think
its likely  it couldve  been agreed  for Miss S to move sooner and I think this would have
reduced some of the worry  and upset both she and Mr R experienced.
URV has mentioned  Miss S wasnt forced to stay in the public facility  and could  have moved
anytime she wished. However, I dont  think this is a fair expectation to put on a policyholder
in Miss Ss situation.  I think Miss S was entitled to expect a reasonable level of assistance
from URV when in a vulnerable position,  having been injured and in hospital  abroad where
she was unfamiliar with the healthcare system.
The transfer to a private hospital, once agreed, took a further two days to arrange.  But,
based on the information Ive seen, it seems URV was doing what it could to arrange the
transfer during  this time. So I dont think URV unreasonably delayed Miss Ss transfer.
Miss Ss repatriation
Ive considered all of the comments  URV  has made in response to our investigators  opinion.
URV has said the remit of this service isnt to make  assessments on clinical decisions. My
role isnt to substitute  the medical judgment of any of the medical professionals involved in
Ref: DRN01152553the case with my own. But in making  my provisional  decision, Ive weighed  up all of the
medical evidence  available  to me to decide whether  I think  URVs decision on how to
repatriate Miss S was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The medical evidence  Ive seen from the first treating doctor  says Miss S was FTF by air
with a stretcher on board from three  days after the accident. And, for the reasons Ive
outlined below, I dont  think  URV  have adequately explained why they didnt rely on this
medical evidence  in the circumstances of the case.
URV has pointed to a lack of experience in aviation medicine on the part of the treating
doctor. Im not aware of what specialised knowledge, if any, this doctor has in air repatriation
but I see no reason  not to give considerable weight to a contemporaneous medical  report
from a doctor who examined and treated  Miss S.
Ive also had regard  to the comments of the consultant orthopaedic surgeon,  who has
provided two letters.  The first letter, from the time of the incident and based on a review  of 
xrays, seems to be in support of a stretcher  type transfer by air.
The second  letter  which I appreciate  is dated the year after the incident  - says a short
three hour flight would  have been of very minimal risk to Miss S, especially as she was
already taking certain medication. This letter goes on to say the option of keeping  Miss S on
bedrest abroad  and then arranging a land ambulance  transfer would have been the very
highest possible risk for a thrombosis and subsequent pulmonary embolism.
Ive also considered Miss Ss discharge  report from the private hospital which  says the
patient is aware of the increased  thromboembolism  risk with broken bones and extensive
travelling, as well as flying.
URV says repatriation by air was not a safe option and they relied  on advice from their
experienced medical repatriation team in deciding on the manner and timing of Miss Ss
return to the UK.
URVs notes from the morning after the incident indicate there were three options available,
including an air ambulance (AA). These  notes say;
1) European Medical  Very long trip.. 2) Wait and see how pax improves  over the
next few days and then see if sheimproves sufficiently to tolerate sitting and
transferring such that she can return on commercial  in about 7-10 days  with 3 seats
3) AA I would not advise considering repatriation to UK for a minimum of at least 3
days to allow  pain to decrease.
In a note later the same day, after URVs medical team had spoken  with Mr R, the options
were set out as;
1)AA after 72 hours  to return to UK 2) Pax remains where  she is until FTF
commercial 3) Pax is moved to a private hospital  for 1-2 weeks  and reassessed  for
FTF commercial 4) Road ambulance which would be at least  30 hours.
At this point, AA was recorded as being Mr Rs preference.
The next day  one day before Miss S was certified  as FTF from  URVs notes say:
Ref: DRN01152554The get out of jail card would be if could stretcher  home  on commercial rather than
AA?
This is followed  by an entry to say ..we cannot repat at this stage and this cannot be
considered yet. But theres no explanation  as to why this was the case. And the treating
doctor had certified  Miss S as being FTF from the following  day.
Two days later, URVs medical team spoke to a road ambulance  company  to begin
repatriation arrangements.
Overall, I havent seen any medical  advice from URV or any medical information recorded  in
URVs notes which  would  suggest it was unsafe to repatriate Miss S by air, or that
transportation by road ambulance was a safer  option.
So, Ive placed  more weight on the medical  evidence from the first treating doctor and the
consultant surgeon. I think this is more persuasive  than the information which URV has
provided. This means,  based  on the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied URV acted fairly or
reasonably when it chose to repatriate Miss S by road ambulance.
The impact  on Miss S and Mr R.
When considering  what level of compensation I think URV should pay Miss S, Ive taken into
account the fact that I think URV  couldve considered  whether  the conditions  in the public
hospital were adequate  sooner.
Ive also taken into account the level of information  given to Miss S by URV while she was
abroad. URV  have already acknowledged they didnt  provide enough  explanation  and
expectation management.
Furthermore, Ive had regard to the impact of how Miss S was repatriated on her  and the
circumstances which she has described  leading up to her return to the UK.
Miss S says, during a conversation with one of URVs medical team,  land transfer was
advocated. Miss S says she was told shed have to wait abroad for four to six weeks if she
wanted to fly and that stretcher transfer  would be too risky. Miss S says she agreed to the
ground repatriation  because she, understandably, was anxious to leave hospital and get
back to the UK. She says URV told her the alternative would be to make arrangements to fly
back herself uninsured.
Theres a note on URVs file from the day Miss S was transferred to the private facility
querying whether  the repatriation could be delayed by 12 hours and amended  to incorporate
a hotel stop. But theres no indication as to whether this was considered  by URV, and based
on what Miss S has told us, her 36 hour journey by road was virtually  non-stop.
Miss S had what she describes as a gruelling journey when she was already mentally and
physically weak. And Ive borne in mind that Miss S was worried about the effect of land
repatriation on her health and she made the journey alone.
Overall, Im satisfied the level of discomfort,  upset and stress Miss S suffered because  of
URVs actions  in this case falls into the category  which  our service would consider severe.
So I think an award of £4,000 compensation  for Miss S would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Ref: DRN01152555I understand Miss S feels her long-term  recovery may have been impacted because  of what
happened. But, based on the medical  evidence  Ive been provided  with, I dont think I can
fairly say its likely URVs actions did affect her recovery.  So this isnt something Ive factored
into my intended compensation award for Miss S.
I also think URVs delays in agreeing the transfer  to a private hospital and the level of
information provided while the claim was ongoing impacted on Mr R. Mr R has outlined  how
he had to help care for Miss S and I think his frustration was clear  from the content of his
contact with URV while Miss S was in the public hospital. I think Mr R experienced
inconvenience and worry at a level which this service would consider moderate. So I intend
to recommend that URV should pay him £100  compensation  to reflect this.
As a final point, as I understand  it, Miss S and Mr Rs claim for hospital benefit and
curtailment costs has been paid. So I dont intend  to address these issues  any further.
URV offered to pay the redress  I proposed as a gesture of goodwill, on the basis that I revisit 
the reasoning  set out in my provisional decision and confine myself solely to commenting on 
the customer service issues Miss S and Mr R experienced rather than commenting on the 
medical decisions made by URV. Specifically, URV  has provided additional comments on; 
its rationale behind  the choice of repatriation method; 
the opinion  of the consultant orthopaedic surgeon; and
Miss Ss transfer from the public hospital.   
Miss S and Mr R responded to my provisional findings with comments about; 
the adequacy of the facilities in the public  hospital; 
the impact on Miss Ss long-term  recovery; and 
URVs failure to respond  to their original complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill firstly  address the comments URV  has made in its response.  
I wont be revisiting the reasons for upholding this complaint which I set out in my provisional 
decision. As Ive already explained,  I havent made any assessment of the medical decisions 
made by URV. What Ive done  is weigh up all the medical evidence  Ive been provided  with 
to decide whether I think URV handled this claim and Miss Ss repatriation  in a way that was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I should  add that this decision isnt precedent  
setting; Ive reached my opinion based on the specific  and unique facts of this case. 
URV has repeatedly  emphasised that its medical  decisions  are made  with medically qualified 
rationale behind  them but I havent seen any evidence from a medically qualified  person 
which explains why URV opted for repatriation by road ambulance over any available 
alternatives. Ive taken  into account  what URV has said about air travel being medically 
unsound following  an injury such as this but again, I havent seen any evidence from a 
medically qualified  person  to challenge  the evidence of the first treating  doctor  that Miss S 
was fit to fly by air. 
Ref: DRN01152556URV says its notes recording various possibilities  for repatriation  options were made by a 
junior medical staff member who listed all conceivable options. I accept what  URV says 
about this but I havent seen any medical  advice which sets out the medical basis  behind  
URVs reasons for choosing one of these options over the others. I also havent  received any 
explanation from URV  about the get out of jail card comment which  is set out in its notes. 
So in the absence of any evidence from a medically  qualified person at URV,  Ive placed 
more weight on the opinion of the first treating doctor and the consultant orthopaedic 
surgeon. The surgeon hasnt made  any comments about his own knowledge of or 
experience in aviation medicine and I havent  seen  any medical  evidence  to support URVs 
contention that his opinion  is wholly and factually wrong. 
URV now says Miss Ss transfer from the public hospital wasnt  medically necessary and the 
treatment being  administered there  was appropriate.  There  arent any reasons recorded  in 
URVs claim notes as to why the move to a private  facility was agreed.  Ive considered what 
URV has said about formal government advice  given about facilities  in the country in 
question but this is generic advice rather than specific to the hospital in question  so I dont 
think its particularly persuasive.  URVs initial submissions to this service were that the 
aftercare in the public hospital was inadequate and so it was therefore  agreed that URV 
would pay for private treatment prior to repatriation. Wed usually take the first version  of 
events given as being the most plausible and based on the evidence  Ive been provided 
with, I see no reasonable  grounds for departing from the conclusions  I reached  in my 
provisional decision on this point. 
URV has also commented on the compensation figure Ive proposed.  The amount of 
compensation which Ive said I intend  to award  is based on what  I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to compensate Miss S and Mr R for the distress, upset and 
worry they experienced as a result of URVs actions in this case.  Ive reached the figures Ive 
proposed following an independent and impartial  review of the complaint, having taken into 
account our published guidance on the payment of compensation as well as awards  made 
by this service in other cases  involving similar issues.  
Turning to the additional comments  Miss S and Mr R have made,  I wont be amending my 
findings about the adequacy of the public hospital.  Im aware of the evidence theyve 
provided about this point  but its not for me to determine whether or not URV should  have 
been aware of broader concerns about the hospital in question. What I need  to decide is 
whether URV acted  on Miss Ss specific concerns  about whether the facility  was appropriate 
for her own individual needs.   
Were an informal dispute resolution  service and we assess complaints based on the 
evidence provided  to us. While I dont doubt  Miss S had an extremely difficult experience, I 
dont think theres enough  medical  evidence for me to fairly say its likely Miss Ss long-term 
recovery has been affected by URVs actions in this case. 
I can appreciate Miss S and Mr Rs frustration at URVs failure to respond to their original 
complaint. But, according to the rules we operate under, the Financial Ombudsman Service 
can only consider  complaints about  regulated activities  (for example, the carrying  out of a 
contract of insurance). Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity  so this isnt something I 
can comment on any further as I dont have the power to do so.  
In summary,  I dont intend to change my provisional  findings. 
Ref: DRN01152557my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss S and Mr Rs complaint. 
Union Reiseversicherung  AG must;
pay Miss S a total of £4000 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she 
experienced;
pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2019. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0115255