K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy that he couldnt cancel an order and associated finance through  
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers  Retail Finance, for a private  number plate 
he bought online. 
He says he also never completed  the online application for the fixed  sum loan that was set 
up.
background
Mr Rs father  has represented him on this complaint.  But, to keep things  simple,  Ill only refer 
to Mr R in this decision.
In June 2018 Mr R applied to purchase a private number plate with a company Ill call F. 
Mr R applied for a fixed sum loan with Close Brothers to finance the purchase.
The next day Mr R emailed F and said hed changed his mind and didnt want to go ahead 
with the purchase. He also got in touch with Close Brothers and said he didnt require the 
finance.
Mr R then contacted  his bank and requested no payments  be made towards  a direct debit to 
Close Brothers. Mr R hasnt made  any repayments towards the loan, which  will have been 
recorded on his credit file.
Mr R also says he never clicked  on a link contained in an email that was sent after he 
applied for the finance. He believes this means the application for the loan wasnt  completed.
F got in touch with Mr R and explained  that the order  couldnt  be cancelled.  It pointed to its 
terms and conditions which explained  no cooling off period was permitted for the purchase.
Mr R complained to Close  Brothers and it issued its final response letter in July 2018. This 
pointed out the same part of the terms and conditions that F showed Mr R. It also said the 
purchase couldnt be cancelled. And, it said the application for credit  was completed when 
Mr R signed the loan agreement.
Mr R was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to this service.  He says he believes 
Close Brothers shouldve  allowed  him to cancel  the order.  And, he thinks  the loan should 
never have  been  set up.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He thought Mr R did agree to take the loan out. But, 
he thought the private plate couldnt  be considered  personalised goods  so he thought 
Mr R shouldve been able to cancel the order and the finance  agreement.  He said 
Close Brothers should cancel the finance  agreement, remove any adverse information from 
Mr Rs credit file about the agreement  and pay him £100 to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Close Brothers disagreed.  It said the number plate was personalised, so Mr R didnt have a 
right to cancel the purchase or the finance.  So, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN03118752When the complaint  was passed to me for a decision, I asked Close Brothers  to provide 
some further  details of Fs sales process  and any loss involved by the cancellation of the 
order. 
Close Brothers confirmed  F ordered the number plate from the DVLA  the day Mr R 
purchased it. The associated certificate arrived  a few days  later and was sent on to Mr R. 
After Mr R said he wanted to cancel the order, F resold the plate and said it didnt suffer a 
financial loss.
I sent Close Brothers and Mr R a provisional decision on 29 July 2020. Ive included  my 
findings from this decision below:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I initially  think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mr Rs complaint is in two parts. So Ill consider each  in turn. The first part of the complaint  
concerns whether Mr R agreed to take out the finance. The second  part concerns how Close  
Brothers handled things when Mr R requested to cancel the purchase  of the plate and the 
credit agreement. 
I think that when  Mr R told Close Brothers  he no longer wanted the finance, he effectively 
asked for a refund. This meant Close Brothers  couldve  considered  this request under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (S75). So, Ill consider how it handled  this 
claim.
Did Mr R agree to take the fixed sum loan from Close Brothers?
Mr R says he never completed the online application so he thinks the loan should never 
have been set up. He says after he applied, an email came  through  that contained a link he 
needed to click on to complete the purchase. But, he says he never clicked  this link. 
Ive seen the email  from Close Brothers  that Mr R mentions. This email  contains a link that 
says Please click here to complete your purchase.
Close Brothers have sent us details of the process Mr R had to follow  to apply for the loan. 
After Mr R had gone  through  the application and entered  his details, it appears he was 
presented with a credit  agreement. This contains details  of the loan and contained  a section 
for Mr R to electronically sign. Above this, it says Only sign this agreement if you want  to be 
legally bound by its terms. I can see Mr R electronically signed  this form.
Looking at the timestamp on the electronic signature  and the time the email Mr R refers to 
was sent, it appears  Mr R signed the form a couple  of minutes after receiving this email.  So, 
I dont think its most  likely Mr R received this email  after hed completed the application.  But, 
even if he did, I still think the loan was agreed  to at this point. Im satisfied Mr R agreed to 
the finance when he electronically  signed the credit agreement. When the email was 
received, or whether  or not Mr R clicked the link, doesnt change my opinion on this. 
Thinking about  everything, Im satisfied Mr R agreed  to take out the loan with 
Close Brothers. So, it follows  I dont  think it did anything  wrong  by processing and setting 
this up.
Ref: DRN03118753Did Close Brothers handle Mr Rs S75 claim as it should?
Mr R has said he should have been  able to cancel the agreement  with F as the order was 
placed online. He says he believes he had 14 days to do this - and as he tried to cancel the 
purchase the next day the order and finance  shouldve been cancelled.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I have regard  to relevant law and regulations. 
S75 is relevant  to this complaint. This says,  in certain circumstances, the borrower under a 
credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier of goods or services.
Ive considered the details of the purchase and Im satisfied  a valid debtor  creditor   
supplier (DCS) link exists. The plate cost £464.79   Im happy this is within the financial 
limits detailed under S75. This means Im satisfied Mr R had a valid S75 claim.
The Consumer Contracts (Information,  Cancellation and Additional Charges)  Regulations 
2013 (CCR) are also relevant to this complaint.  These explain certain contracts  made from 
distance  which this as an online sale would  be  can be cancelled for a period of 14 days 
after they start.
Fs terms and conditions say the purchase  doesnt  count  as a distance  sale and is excluded 
from the CCR. Part of these terms say:
4. Under  the Consumer Contracts (Information,  Cancellation and Additional Charges) 
Regulations 2013, if a buyer does not proceed with the transfer of the registration mark after 
paying the full/part payment, or fails to supply the full documentation required by DVLA, then 
no part of this payment  is refundable, whatsoever, as the service  period commences 
immediately. Ordered  registrations cannot  be refunded  or exchanged, nor will and 
cancellations be accepted. If a balance  payment  is not received, a debt recovery  company 
will be employed to recover any payments outstanding. There will be additional charges for 
their services. Please  note there  is no cooling off period permitted.
F says this is because bespoke and personalised goods  are excluded from the regulations. 
Close Brothers say Fs understanding that the plate was a personalised item is correct so F 
is right not to offer any cancellation.
I think its important to point out here that for the purposes of considering the CCR, I think 
the contract  that Mr R entered into with F was a contract for goods, rather  than services.  I 
say this as I think the main purpose of the contract  was to supply a number plate  to 
Mr R.
The CCR  says the cancellation rights dont  apply to the supply of goods that are made to 
the consumers  specifications or are clearly personalised. So, I need  to consider if this 
definition applies to the number plate Mr R bought.
The number plate  Mr R ordered was selected from a number of plates that were already  
available from the DVLA. Close Brothers said that the plate had already been used on 
another car. So, Im satisfied this means it wasnt made to his specifications. Ive considered  
whether the plate was clearly personalised. But, I dont think it was. The plate was for sale 
in the same state as it wouldve been supplied to Mr R. Nothing  was edited or altered with 
the plate when Mr R bought it. So, Im satisfied it wasnt personalised.
Ref: DRN03118754Close Brothers said that only a very limited number of people  would  buy the plate if the 
purchase was cancelled. I think the intention behind the exclusion about personalised goods 
in the CCR is to prevent retailers suffering a financial loss by having  to take back goods 
which have been  personalised  or altered and so would be very difficult  to resell. But I dont  
agree with Close Brothers that only a very limited number of people  would buy this plate. Ill 
explain why.
This particular registration is a variation  of a popular name  in the UK. The plate was in use 
before Mr R acquired it. And, F confirmed that the plate was resold after Mr R said he no 
longer wanted  to go ahead with the agreement.  So, Im still satisfied there  was a market for 
the plate to be resold and this doesnt  go against  the spirit of the CCR.
Close Brothers told us F had said Trading  Standards had informed it that private plates are 
personalised goods. But, I asked it to provide some  evidence  of this and it has been unable 
to do so. So, this doesnt change my opinion
So, Im satisfied that Mr R had a right to cancel this contract. Looking at the communication  
between Mr R and F, Im satisfied Mr R validly exercised this right within the cancellation  
period.
There is an implied term in the contract  that if Mr R validly  exercised  his cancellation rights 
under the CCR,  which Im satisfied he did, then any ancillary contracts  which would include 
the point of sale loan  should be automatically terminated. Close Brothers  didnt terminate 
Mr Rs finance agreement. Im satisfied  this was a breach  of contract. So, I think  Close  
Brothers shouldve  upheld Mr Rs claim under S75.
I did consider whether  it would be fair and reasonable for some  money  to be retained for any 
significant services provided by F.
I asked Close Brothers  to give details of the Fs sales process and what  it meant by a 
commission based sale  as F described the transaction. F confirmed to Close Brothers 
that the sales process was for it to buy the plate  from the DVLA, then pass  the certificate 
onto Mr R. It didnt provide any further  details of costs or time involved. And it specifically 
said that the plate was later sold on without any loss. 
Ive also considered that F confirmed that the certificate for the plate arrived after Mr R had 
told it he no longer wanted it. Assuming the plate wasnt bought at auction, which neither F 
nor Close Brothers have mentioned, the DVLA allows cancellation of any purchases  within  
10 working days. So, it appears  F couldve asked for a full refund from the DVLA  if it didnt 
want to resell the plate.   
Thinking about  all of this, I dont think Mr R is responsible for the cost of any work F did to 
source the number  plate.
In summary,  Im satisfied  the number plate Mr R bought doesnt meet the exclusion for 
personalised goods in the CCR. Im satisfied the contract Mr R entered  into was for goods 
rather than services. I think this means  F should  have let Mr R cancel his purchase. And 
when he cancelled the contract  with F, Close Brothers shouldve also cancelled the 
associated finance.
Ref: DRN03118755Ive considered that Mr R hasnt made  any repayments towards  the finance, so no refund is 
due. Mr R has had no use of the plate he purchased. So, I think the simplest and fairest way 
to put things right is to cancel the credit  agreement with nothing  further to pay.
Mr R has said this has affected his credit rating which he has found very stressful. I also 
think it wouldve been upsetting for him to be told he couldnt cancel the finance. Mr R 
wouldnt have the negative information  on his file had the order  been cancelled as I think it 
should have been. So, I think Close Brothers  should remove any adverse information from 
his credit file and pay him £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  
caused.
Finally, Mr R says he was recently declined a mortgage because of the negative  information 
on his credit report from Close Brothers. But, having reviewed the credit  report he sent in, I 
can see other issues which would  affect  his credit  rating. So, I havent  seen  enough to make 
me think he was declined a mortgage  because of what Close  Brothers did, rather than for 
some other reason.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond to my provisional decision with any further 
comments or evidence for me to consider. 
Mr R got in touch and said he was happy with the decision. Close  Brothers responded and 
said it would  put things right by doing what I set out in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same  reasons I explained  in my provisional decision and which  are detailed 
above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Close Brothers Limited  trading  as 
Close Brothers Retail Finance to do the following:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
remove any adverse information  about  the account from Mr Rs credit  file
pay Mr R £100 for the trouble and upset  caused  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0311875