K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as CashFloat)  irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about eight payday  loans CashFloat provided to Mr C between June 2016 
and June 2018. Mr Cs borrowing  history is as follows: 
Loan 
numberStart dateDate 
repaidPlanned 
number  of 
instalmentsPrincipalHighest 
planned 
instalment  
1 18/06/2016 28/09/2016 3 £300.00 £160.84
2 02/10/2016 25/01/2017 4 £500.00 £195.22
3 25/01/2017 28/04/2017 3 £350.00 £178.17
4 28/04/2017 30/08/2017 4 £450.00 £183.76
5 30/08/2017 30/11/2017 3 £450.00 £224.24
6 01/12/2017 30/01/2018 2 £500.00 £432.53
7 17/05/2018 25/06/2018 1 £250.00 £328.00
8 25/06/2018 2 £350.00 £238.57
The account  for loan 8 is still open  and so it appears there may be an outstanding balance. 
CashFloat said that when  it decided to lend to Mr C, it carried  out several checks. It 
considered his income and expenditure and conducted a real time check of his monthly 
credit commitments.  Following those  checks,  CashFloat  said that the loans appeared 
affordable to Mr C. It noted that save for loan 8, he had repaid his borrowing in full and on 
time. 
In his complaint,  Mr C said that he was in a poor financial position and he repaid his loans on 
time only by borrowing from other  high cost short-term lenders.  His credit file was very poor.  
He said that his pattern of borrowing was not of someone who relied  infrequently on payday 
short-term lending. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld in respect of loans 4 to 8. He said by 
loan 4, CashFloat  should have realised that Mr C was persistently reliant on short term 
loans. 
CashFloat didnt agree with that view. It said that in its view,  a loan was unsustainable when 
a customer could not get by without resorting to short  term credit  and that this could only be 
determined by reference to his income  and commitments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN00088132CashFloat needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that CashFloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that CashFloat was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern 
of the lending history, with a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which CashFloat should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If that 
point was reached, CashFloat should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.  
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs 
case, I dont think  CashFloat should  have provided  loans 4 to 8 to Mr C. 
As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, CashFloat was entitled to rely on what  Mr 
C said in his application. In this case,  I can see that CashFloat  undertook a credit  check.  So 
it should have  considered  that when it was deciding  whether to lend to Mr C. 
Ref: DRN00088133For loans 1 to 3, I think CashFloat did just about  enough when it agreed  to lend to Mr C. It 
relied on the monthly income and expenditure he provided. However, it would have  also 
been aware at that time that Mr C had a number of unsatisfied  defaults on his credit file, 
which should have  indicated that Mr C may be having financial difficulties. That of itself 
would not necessarily stop CashFloat  from lending  to Mr C at this stage. And given that their 
lending relationship was in its early  stages, I cant say CashFloat was wrong to agree Mr Cs 
loans at that point.  
However, by loan 4, CashFloat should  have realised that Mr C was in financial trouble. For 
example, I can see that borrowed loan 2 a matter of days  after repaying  loan 1. He applied  
for loan 3 on the same day he repaid loan 2. Loan  4 was also applied for on the same day 
loan 3 was repaid. According to the income details  Mr C provided  at loan 4, he was earning 
£1,000 more per month than when he applied for loan 1.  It is unclear to me why he was 
continuing to regularly borrow from CashFloat if his earnings had increased so substantially 
in that time. 
I can also see from the credit report that CashFloat obtained at loan 4 that Mr C continued  to 
have several credit  accounts in default. He had a payment arrangement  on one account, 
indicating difficulties keeping to his scheduled  repayments. Another of his accounts was in 
arrears. The outstanding amounts in default  were not consistent with someone  who had a 
significant disposable income. 
Putting that into context  alongside the frequency with which  Mr C borrowed from CashFloat, 
it ought to have realised  that he was having  financial  difficulties and he could  not sustainably  
afford to repay his loans. By loan 4, CashFloat should have reasonably  realised that it was 
more likely than not that Mr C was borrowing further  to cover the hole repaying his previous 
loan was leaving in his finances  and that his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Moreover, Mr Cs first loan was for £300 and loan 4 was for £450. At this point CashFloat 
ought to have known that Mr C was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need. Mr C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he 
owed. Loan 8 was taken  out over two years after loan 1. And it was for a larger  amount.  Mr 
C had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to CashFloat over an 
extended period.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments CashFloat made in its response to our 
adjudicator. Looking particularly at its point  that unsustainability could only be established if 
a customer could not get by without resorting to short  term loans, I think the fact that Mr C 
took out further borrowing  the same day as he repaid his previous loan shows very clearly 
that he was reliant  on high cost short-term lending. 
CashFloat also argued there was evidence Mr Cs financial situation had improved 
considerably. I disagree. As I said above, he told CashFloat that his income had increased at 
loan 3. However, the manner in which he managed his finances following that apparent rise 
of some considerable significance did not change. He continued to have  accounts  in default 
and his pattern  of borrowing shows,  in my view, that he was reliant on this type of lending  to 
meet his needs.  
With all of this in mind, I think that Mr C lost out because CashFloat continued to provide 
borrowing from loan 4 onwards because:
Ref: DRN00088134these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time; 
and
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans and CashFloat must put things right.
putting things right  what CashFloat  needs to do
CashFloat shouldnt have given Mr C loans 4 to 8. 
As I said above, there appears to be an outstanding  balance on loan 8. If CashFloat has sold 
this outstanding debt, it must buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the steps set out 
below. If it is not able to buy the deb back,  it must  liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below:
a)CashFloat must add together  the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  it has already  refunded; 
b)CashFloat must calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made by Mr 
C which were  considered as part of paragraph  (a). This must be calculated  from the 
date Mr C originally made the payments to the date the complaint is settled;
c)CashFloat must remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr C as though  they 
had been repayments  of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr C 
having made overpayments,  those overpayments must be refunded  with 8% simple 
interest* calculated and paid from the date overpayments would have arisen to the 
date the complaint is settled. It must then refund the amounts calculated  in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) and move to paragraph (e);
d)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in (a) and (b) can 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan and any principal 
that has already  been written off. If that results in a surplus, then the surplus must be 
paid to Mr C. However, if there  is still an outstanding balance, CashFloat should  
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr C. It must  not pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal it has already written off;  
e)The overall pattern  of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 4 to 8 means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse. CashFloat must  remove those loans entirely  from 
his credit file. It does not have  to remove loan 8 until it has been repaid. But it must 
still remove any adverse information  recorded  about these loans. 
*HM Revenue and Customs requires CashFloat to deduct tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax has been  deducted  if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Western  Circle Ltd must 
comply with the above putting things right  section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Ref: DRN00088135Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0008813