K821x#15complaint
Miss N has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unreasonably refused to pay her claim 
under her pet policy for the vet fees for her cat.
background
Miss N took out her policy  on 22 March 2019. Earlier  that day she had taken her cat to the 
vet. Later in April 2019, Miss Ns cat was found  to have a blocked  bladder and required 
surgery. And then Miss N made a claim to Pinnacle.
Following receipt of the vet history, Pinnacle refused to pay Miss Ns claim as it considered 
the cats illness was began on the day Miss N took out the policy.  Claims are excluded from 
illnesses, which occur in the first 14 days of this policy.
Miss Bs vet explained  that the cats illness didnt begin until April 2019  but Pinnacle  wouldnt 
change its stance. Miss N said on this basis she put her cat to sleep on 13 May 2019.  
As Pinnacle  wouldnt pay her claim, Miss N brought her complaint to us. The investigator  
was of the view that it should be upheld and that Pinnacle should  pay her claim. He also 
thought Pinnacle  should  pay Miss N £2,000 compensation because she said she put her cat 
to sleep because  Pinnacle wouldnt pay her claim.
Pinnacle didnt  agree so Miss Ns claim was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 May and I said the following:
Having looked  at the Miss Ns vet history and considered what the vet explained to 
Pinnacle, I think on the balance of probability that the illness Miss Ns cat suffered 
from didnt begin  until April 2019. Ive also paid specific regard to what  Pinnacles vet 
views were, but I put more weight  on the opinion of the vets who actually examined 
Miss Ns cat.
Miss Ns vet explained the errors  made on the claim form to my satisfaction and also 
explained the results  of the examination on 22 March 2019. I dont consider that a 
normal small comfortable bladder plus NAD on an abdominal examination indicates 
the sort of bladder issues this cat later suffered from later in April. I consider its also 
usual to monitor indoor  male cats urine  output  if possible, which  the vet explained 
was all that was told to Miss N on that day. I consider  Miss Ns vet has reasonably 
explained things,  which I consider more  than likely shows that Miss Ns cat didnt 
begin this illness on the day this policy started.
Therefore, I consider  Pinnacle should  now pay Miss Ns claim with interest from the 
date she made the claim.
I dont know what Pinnacle actually said in its email to Miss N when it declined  her 
claim and imposed the exclusion  as it only forwarded us a copy  of its final response 
letter and not a copy of the email. However, its system notes tell me that it declined 
to pay Miss Ns claim on 10 May 2019. The system  notes also tell me that Miss N 
immediately launched  an appeal again this decision and that she chased  it on 16 
May 2019 asking  why it was taking too long and she wasnt happy with the refund 
Ref: DRN08053322after she had cancelled the policy on 14 May 2019. The vet history also shows the 
vet had emailed Pinnacle to support  Miss Ns appeal on 10 May.
The vet history shows that on 7 May, Miss Ns cat was discharged following his 
bladder operation.  Whilst the costs of the treatment had now exceeded Miss Ns 
policy limit, the vet explained to Miss N how they had tried to keep the costs of 
treatment down. The vet history noted  that Miss Ns cat continued to recover quite 
well and was eating, drinking and urinating.  On 10 May, the vet history shows  a copy 
of the email sent to Pinnacle and records a phone conversation with Miss N noting 
that she was very pleased  her cat was doing  well and that she had appealed 
Pinnacle decision to decline  her claim.
However, on 11 May, Miss N brought her cat to the vet and was very upset, as she 
didnt think her cat was doing well. The vet asked  her what  medication she had given 
the cat that day and Miss N replied none as she had stopped them  because  the cat 
was doing well. The vet history shows an exclamation mark and two question marks 
beside this note. So Miss N was sent home with the plan to restart the medication. 
On 13 May, the vet history details that Miss N was very upset, as she didnt think  her 
cat was doing well at all. She also said she couldnt  give her cat one of the 
medications as the cat refused it. The vet said they would re-admit the cat and do 
some more blood tests  at no extra  charge. The vet recorded the results of those 
blood tests and said they were very pleasing.
But later that day, Miss N called the vet saying she wanted her cat to be put to sleep. 
The vet history notes  she said this was due to serious personal situations at home.  
The vet explained  that her cat was improving but was just suffering setbacks, but 
Miss N remained  resolute that she had gone  as far as she could with her cat and 
wanted him put to sleep. 
Theres no evidence here in my view to show that Miss N was so upset with 
Pinnacles decision to decline  her claim that she had to put her cat to sleep, the 
appeal was in and her vet was fully supporting it and she was still awaiting the 
outcome, which  came  via the final response letter of 21 May 2019.  Further  Miss N 
was already aware the vet costs  had exceeded  her policy limit so it was obvious that 
even if her appeal  was successful, she would be responsible  for the shortfall in vet 
fees. Therefore,  I dont  consider Pinnacle should  be required to pay compensation to 
Miss N for the fact she decided to put her cat to sleep.
Pinnacle didnt  agree that the claim should be paid on the basis that I considered  it was 
more unlikely the illness of Miss Ns started  within the first 14 days  of the policy  starting. 
Miss N didnt agree that she should  be paid no compensation as she maintained she did put 
her cat to sleep because  Pinnacle didnt pay her claim. And that because of that she couldnt 
get her insured elsewhere. She provided  a further  email from her vet discussing the health 
situation of her cat at the time, confirming her cat required further on going  intensive care at 
the time and confirming  she made  the kindest decision  possible. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08053323I maintain my view that the evidence most especially from Miss Ns treating vet is balanced 
in favour  of the fact that this cats illness more likely didnt start on the day Miss N bought  her 
policy. It started later in April. Therefore, I maintain that Pinnacle should  pay Miss Ns claim 
with interest. 
As regards  the compensation previously  suggested  by the investigator, Im afraid  the 
evidence in the vet history  doesnt  adequately point to the fact that Miss N put her cat to 
sleep because Pinnacle hadnt paid her claim. This is because  Miss N had already appealed 
Pinnacles decision and the outcome of that appeal wasnt known at the time Miss N decided 
to put her cat to sleep. 
I can only award compensation  on the evidence that it was because  of Pinnacles decision  
that Miss N put her cat to sleep. However from what her vet has said now (which Miss N 
forwarded to me with her response to the provisional decision), the reason her cat was put to 
sleep was because  it was unfair  to keep pursuing treatment options when he was obviously 
not responding to this, and his welfare  was compromised. That has nothing to do with 
Pinnacles decision not to pay Miss Ns claim.  Thats a clinical decision,  sadly based on her 
cats illness  at the time. 
I can quite understand  it was severely  traumatic given her cat was so ill, but it wasnt 
Pinnacles fault he was so ill and theres no evidence Miss N put her cat to sleep due to 
Pinnacles decision not to pay her claim.  There is instead only evidence that she decided  to 
put her cat to sleep,  as it was the kindest thing to do in the circumstances of his health. 
Therefore, I maintain  it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require Pinnacle  to pay 
compensation for that.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to do the following:
Pay Miss Ns claim,  in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date Miss N submitted her claim to 
the date it pays  it. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest,  appropriate 
documentation should be provided  to Mr B for HMRC  purposes. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN08053324
Ref: DRN0805332