K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ms complaint is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) gave her and her husband 
a consolidation  loan that wasnt affordable for them.  Shes  also unhappy with the service 
shes received following  her change of circumstances and financial difficulties.  
background 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs M took a loan with RBS. This was to consolidate a previous loan on a 
higher interest  rate, and credit card balances. 
After this, sadly Mr M became ill and subsequently died. Mrs M was unhappy  with how RBS 
dealt with these  changes of circumstances, as well as the fact that she felt the 2017 loan had 
been inappropriate and unaffordable,  and left her in financial  difficulty.
Mrs M, represented  by Mr and Mrs E, wanted the loan to be written-off.  
A complaint went to RBS, and it said it didnt agree the loan was mis-sold, and that Mrs M 
was now paying  less interest than before, with reduced monthly  payments.  
A payment plan was subsequently  agreed between the parties.
However, it did agree that its service hadnt  always been to the standard expected, and paid 
£120 compensation for this. 
Mrs M remained unhappy, and complained  to this service.
Our investigator considered all of the evidence,  and concluded that the consolidation loan in 
2017 hadnt been mis-sold, but that the complaint could be partly upheld on the service 
issues. She noted that £120 had already been  paid for this. And RBS was offering an 
additional £200 to resolve matters, which she felt was fair. 
But Mrs M didnt think  this was enough, and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigator that the complaint should be partly  
upheld and that RBSs offer of £200,  in addition to what its already paid, is fair and sufficient 
to resolve matters.
I appreciate that Mrs M, and her representatives,  dont  think  this is enough to compensate  
her for the poor service  shes received. But the awards our service  is able to make tend to 
be modest, and dont reflect what a court might perhaps direct.  Comparing the 
circumstances of this case with others that are similar, I can confirm that an award of £200  is 
in the correct range. Particularly  when  taking into account the £120 thats already been paid. 
Had I been able to uphold the full complaint, then of course the overall financial award would 
be greater. But I dont  think  the consolidation loan was mis-sold, and therefore  Im not 
including that element  of the complaint in my calculations. In saying this, I note that Mrs Ms 
Ref: DRN01342422asked for an ombudsmans decision on the compensation  on the upheld part of the 
complaint. So what Im looking at is RBSs  general service to Mrs M, and her 
correspondents, and the stress and inconvenience this caused her. 
Given the very sad circumstances, involving the illness and loss of Mrs Ms husband, theres 
no doubt shes had a very difficult time.  And Id like to offer my sincere condolences. Its 
clear RBS did make some  mistakes, and failed  to provide the service  it should have on more  
than one occasion. I can see how this would have  made an already difficult  set of 
circumstances feel even  worse. However,  I cant say that it ever acted in malice, or with 
sheer recklessness. Some  mistakes  were made by human error, and others via business  
processes. But none  of these were deliberate. Overall though, I do accept  they would have 
been very upsetting, and I dont seek to diminish  that.
So while I understand Mrs M doesnt  think  the £200  is enough, when looking at all thats 
happened, and noting that the principal part of the complaint (the mis-sale of the loan)  isnt 
being upheld,  and £120 compensations already been paid, I think  its fair and proportionate. 
So I wont  be asking RBS to increase  it. 
Im sorry  this will be disappointing for Mrs M, but hope Ive been able to explain why I think  
this is a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and to resolve matters Im asking The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay £200  additional compensation to Mrs M. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134242