K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way Amtrust Europe  Limited handled a claim on his legal 
expenses policy and the legal advice he was given by the policys helpline. 
I refer throughout  to Amtrust Europe Limited, as the responsible insurer.  Except where  I 
state otherwise,  this includes the agents and claims handlers who acted on its behalf.
background
Mr C has legal expenses insurance  policy added to his home insurance. The policy  is 
underwritten by Amtrust and administered by its claims handlers. The policy gives  him 
access to a legal helpline. 
Mr C contacted the helpline as he wanted  some advice about a dispute  with his local council.
When he subsequently made a claim  on the policy, Amtrust instructed one of its panel  
solicitors to assess it. The panel solicitors advised  that the claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success,  so Amtrust said it wouldnt  provide  cover. Mr C disagrees with the 
panel solicitors  assessment and feels he has provided enough evidence  to prove he has a 
valid claim. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said our service  cant look into the actions 
of solicitors or the quality of their advice; we could only look into whether Amtrust had dealt 
with the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. And he was satisfied  it 
had done this. 
Mr C didnt agree, and hes raised  the following points:
1.His complaint is about the business  who he holds his home  insurance  policy  with as 
thats who he pays his premiums  to. He doesnt understand why our investigator has 
looked into Amtrusts handling of the claim when  Amtrust  hasnt been involved in the 
process whatsoever.
2.He doesnt  understand  why our investigator  has said this complaint is outside the 
scope of the financial ombudsman because its a legal matter. It has always been  a 
legal matter as it arises out of a claim on a legal  expenses  policy. 
3.He wasnt given  any contact details for Amtrust  and was continuously  told he had to 
go through the helpline. This resulted in him being given negligent advice because 
the helpline  adviser  relied  on the wrong  legislation. He was told to complain  to the 
local government ombudsman (LGO) about  the council but this wasnt  upheld 
because of the helplines incorrect interpretation  of the law; 
4.When he tried to complain, he was told to go to Amtrust to make a claim. It took a 
long time for his claim  to be considered and he missed the deadline  to pursue a 
judicial review of the LGOs decision. No action was taken by Amtrust about the 
damage done to his case.
5.The panel solicitors  opinion that his claim wasnt likely to succeed is wrong. So the 
decision to decline his claim was wrong. 
As our investigator has been unable to resolve this complaint,  it has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN00014312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C may have  taken out his policy with his home insurer, but the legal expenses insurance 
is a separate part of the contract and is underwritten by Amtrust. So Amtrust is responsible  
for the services provided by the policy and the decisions made  on claims. 
Amtrust has appointed clam handlers  to deal with claims on its behalf.  And the legal helpline 
is run by a firm of solicitors. Those firms act as agents for Amtrust, who is ultimately  
responsible for their actions - even  though  it may not have been in direct contact with Mr C. 
Since Amtrust  is responsible for arranging the helpline, I can look at the service  provided by 
that helpline. But that doesnt  mean  can look into the quality of the legal advice  given. 
Mr Cs legal expenses policy sets out how to make a claim. It says;  as soon as you have a 
legal problem that you may require assistance  with under this insurance you should 
telephone the legal  helpline. 
The policy document gives the following information about the legal helpline:
You and your family can use the 24 hour helpline service to discuss any legal problem 
occurring within the United Kingdom,  the Channel Islands and Isle of Man.
Specialist lawyers are at hand  to help you. If you need a lawyer  to act for you and your 
problem is covered under this insurance,  the helpline will ask you to complete and submit a 
claim form online. Alternatively they will send a claim  form to you.
This section  gives the website address  for Amtrusts claims handlers, where a claim form 
can be completed online. And the claim handlers address details are included  within  the 
complaint procedure section of the policy.
From what  Ive seen, it was the correct procedure for Mr C to contact  the legal helpline in the 
first instance. The helpline is designed to give general legal advice over the phone.  They 
dont review documents, draft correspondence  to other parties  or represent  the policyholder. 
If Mr C required  representation, the policy explains that hed need to submit  a claim form. 
And Im satisfied the policy  sets out how to do this and gives  the relevant contact details. 
I appreciate Mr C feels the advice given by the helpline harmed his claim. But Im only able 
to look at how Amtrust (and its agents) dealt with the insurance claim  and this doesnt 
extend to commenting on the quality of legal advice  or judging  whether that advice was 
negligent. 
Mr C complains that the process  took so long he missed  his deadline to issue a judicial 
review of the LGOs  decision. I havent  seen  anything  to show me he was prevented  from 
doing that at the same  time as pursuing his claim with Amtrust. In any event, it was 
ultimately his responsibility  to protect  his position.
The role of the claims handler is to handle claims and complaints under the policy  on 
Amtrusts behalf. Mr C made  a claim against  his local council so that is the claim they would 
consider. He subsequently  complained about  the helpline and the panel  solicitors.
Ref: DRN00014313It isnt generally for Amtrust or its claims handlers  to look into complaints about the panel 
solicitors, who will have their own complaints procedure. Amtrust is responsible for 
complaints about  actions  taken on its behalf in administering the legal helpline.  I can see the 
claims handler denied responsibility for this and referred Mr C to the solicitors directly. I think  
they should have looked into how the helpline dealt with Mr C. But ultimately, they couldnt  
review the quality of the legal advice either. So while it will be very disappointing for Mr C, 
there was a limit to what  could be done about this.
Amtrust did consider  Mr Cs claim and it was passed to the panel solicitors  to assess  the 
prospects of success.  The policy  terms say cover will only be provided if its more likely  than 
not that the claim will be successful. Thats a standard term in this type of insurance and I 
think its reasonable  I wouldnt expect an insurer to pay the costs  of a claim  that is not 
likely to succeed. So Amtrust would need  to decide  whether  Mr C was likely  to win his case. 
Id expect an insurer to take legal advice  on this. Amtrust did obtain legal advice. And as that 
was a properly  written, reasoned advice  from a suitably qualified lawyer,  it was entitled to 
rely on it. 
I can appreciate Mr Cs disappointment and I know he thinks the legal advice is wrong. But it 
was reasonable  for Amtrust to make its decision based on legal advice. Mr C says the 
advice is flawed because  the solicitors wrongly said he didnt own the land. But I note the 
solicitors reviewed the matter following challenge from Mr C and addressed  his concerns. 
And in that review,  it was noted the dispute was about a right of way over the footpath  which 
is within your property  Mr C refers to comments about the Land  Register.  But it seems to 
me these  are legal  points  which  the assessment covered. Im satisfied these points were 
considered and its not for me to say whether the advice was correct.  
If Mr C disagrees  with that advice, the way to challenge it would be to get his own legal 
opinion on the merits of his claim. If he provides an opinion that supports his position  then Id 
expect Amtrust to consider the claim again.  But as it stands Im satisfied Amtrust has dealt 
with the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0001431