K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled  a claim on 
Mr Ds car insurance policy. Mrs D is a named driver  on the policy and has dealt with much  
of the correspondence from UKI and this service.
background
Mr D was driving near his home, with Mrs D as a passenger. He was waiting  on the main 
road to turn right into a side street. As he was waiting, two emergency service  vehicles 
approached and passed him on the other  side of the road, in quick  succession. Both 
vehicles had lights and sirens on and Mrs D says the environment was extremely loud as a 
result.
Shortly after the emergency vehicles passed, Mr D began to turn his car. However,  a third 
emergency vehicle  was coming  from behind  him, overtaking the traffic behind Mr D. The 
emergency vehicle  collided  with Mr Ds car, resulting in damage to both vehicles.
Mr and Mrs D were bruised and understandably shaken by the incident,  which  theyve said 
continues to have  an impact on their health  and wellbeing.
Mr and Mrs D reported the incident  to their insurer, UKI. Their initial report  was that their car 
had been stationary and the emergency vehicle had swerved into them in order  to avoid a 
head on collision with an oncoming car. UKI therefore proceeded on the basis  that the 
emergency vehicle  was wholly at fault.
The emergency vehicles  driver, through their insurer, challenged Mr and Mrs Ds account  
and said Mr D had turned into their path.  Mr and Mrs D strongly disagreed  with this and 
provided CCTV from a nearby building that showed the collision.
Unfortunately, after watching the CCTV, UKI decided it was unlikely it could successfully 
defend a legal claim against Mr D for the incident. It said the emergency vehicle had 
emergency lights on and was entitled to overtake  on the wrong  side of the road. It accepted  
Mr D hadnt intended  to turn into the emergency vehicle but said he should have been aware 
of its approach. It therefore accepted  the claim, holding Mr D at fault, although it did so 
without prejudice   which means  Mr D can undertake  his own legal proceedings without 
being prejudiced by UKIs admission of liability.
Mr and Mrs D are extremely upset by this decision, which  they feel is unreasonable.  Mrs D 
has shown the CCTV to a number of other  parties,  including traffic police officers,  and says 
the unanimous  opinion  is that Mr D wasnt at fault.  She says the emergency vehicle was 
being driven unsafely and without due care and attention.
Mrs D has also complained about  the way UKI dealt  with her during  the claim. In particular 
shes upset that it was assumed Mr D didnt check his mirrors, and by a comment that she 
would have wanted the emergency vehicle to travel  in that way if it were coming to her. This 
last was particularly  upsetting as she and Mr D have previously  lost a close relative  in an 
emergency situation  and an ambulance wasnt able to attend in time.
Mr and Mrs D would  like UKI to change its decision and handle the claim on the basis  that 
Mr D wasnt at fault.
Ref: DRN09925132One of our investigators  looked at this complaint and thought  that UKI had made a 
reasonable decision to accept liability. However,  they thought there had been  problems with 
the claim handling process that had caused Mr and Mrs D further distress. So they 
recommended UKI pay £150 in recognition of this.
Neither Mr and Mrs D nor UKI accepted the investigators findings, so the complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision. On 3 May 2019 I issued  a provisional decision explaining 
why I didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should  be upheld.
UKI didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision, while Mrs D sent a letter with some  further  
points. Ive considered  these and my findings  are below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
The policy terms for Mr Ds insurance policy say that UKI may take over the negotiation, 
defence or settlement of any claim  made  on the policy. This means that UKI can make  its 
own decision  about whether to admit  liability on Mr Ds behalf,  even  if he disagrees. This is a 
common term in motor  insurance policies and I dont  consider it unreasonable.
Id like to be clear that my role is not to decide who was at fault in the collision between 
Mr Ds car and the emergency  vehicle. Thats better  decided in a court. Instead Ive 
considered whether UKI acted  fairly  and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms, by 
accepting liability based on all the circumstances and evidence  available.
Having looked  at everything both Mr and Mrs D and UKI have provided, I think  it did.
Having watched  the CCTV footage of the collision, I dont think  UKIs decision to admit 
liability was unreasonable. Mr Ds car clearly starts  moving into the turn as the emergency  
vehicle (which has blue lights flashing)  is overtaking  the queue  of traffic behind  him.
I understand what Mrs Ds told us about the immediate environment and not expecting 
another emergency vehicle so soon, especially after seeing  two others going in the opposite  
direction. But I agree  with UKI that it appears Mr D had time to see and hear the emergency 
vehicle before he began the turn.
In responding  to an emergency, an emergency  vehicle is entitled to overtake a queue  of 
traffic. The Highway  Code requires drivers to look out for emergency  vehicles and allow 
them to pass.  The insurer representing the emergency vehicle  in this case has quoted this 
section of the code and UKI doesnt feel it could successfully  defend Mr D if that point were  
taken to court. Looking  at all the available evidence, I think thats a reasonable view for UKI 
to take.
Ref: DRN09925133I appreciate what Mrs Ds said about  the emergency  vehicle  driver  not attending an 
emergency. She says he told colleagues at the time he was going  to get the vehicle 
serviced, although its not clear whether he meant  that was his immediate destination or he 
had a service booked in the near future.  But I havent seen  any other evidence about this 
conversation. And the emergency  services  have since confirmed that the driver  was 
responding to an emergency call. So I think, on the balance of probabilities,  its reasonable 
to say the driver  was on his way to an emergency.
Mrs D has been adamant  that the emergency  vehicle was being driven unsafely. Shes 
referred to a point on the CCTV where  she believes the emergency vehicle clipped the wing 
mirror of an oncoming car. Ive watched  this footage at a slow speed  and I can see the 
moment she means. But I cant  say for certain whether there was any contact between the 
two vehicles. And even  if there were, I dont  think  that means UKIs decision to accept 
liability was unreasonable. A court might take details of another collision into account. But 
that doesnt mean Mr D would win any legal action  concerning the collision between his car 
and the emergency vehicle. And UKI, which has also reviewed the video, has said it doesnt 
think it could successfully  defend Mr D at court.
Mrs Ds also referred  to conversations with traffic  officers whove viewed the footage and say 
Mr D wasnt at fault. UKIs said it hasnt taken  this any further  as the traffic  officers didnt 
witness the collision.  Again,  while  I understand  Mrs Ds strength of feeling on this point, 
I dont think thats  unfair. I note that the officer Mrs D spoke to said theyd charge the 
emergency vehicle  driver  had he not been  responding  to an urgent call. But in this situation  it 
seems the driver was on a call  so I dont  think  the traffic officers opinion is enough to 
make UKIs decision to accept liability an unreasonable one.
Ive also considered the way UKI handled  Mr Ds claim, in particular how some  of its claim 
handlers spoke  to Mrs D. Ive listened  to some of the phone calls between UKI and 
Mr and Mrs D. And its clear to me in each call that both Mr and Mrs D were extremely 
distressed by the incident and by UKIs  decision. I dont think  UKI is to blame for this  the 
collision was traumatic and understandably caused upset. But Ive thought about how it 
handled the calls in light of their obvious  emotion.
In its final response letter,  UKI acknowledged that Mrs D had been  told Mr D shouldve 
checked his mirrors and that shed want the emergency vehicle travelling in this way if [it] 
were coming to you. I appreciate that both comments  (which  UKI now says were taken out 
of context)  would have  appeared insensitive in the circumstances. But Ive also considered 
that UKI were trying to communicate a difficult message, which Mr and Mrs D 
understandably found hard to understand or accept. Listening to the calls between 
Mr and Mrs D and UKI, I dont think that the comments  were flippant or intended to cause 
further distress. I think they were made by case handlers trying to further clarify UKIs 
decision when Mr and Mrs D hadnt  accepted the initial explanations.
Given that, I dont agree  that UKI dealt with Mr and Mrs Ds claim so badly as to warrant 
compensation. The accident was clearly a shocking and upsetting event and dealing  with the 
aftermath was always going to be difficult for Mr and Mrs D. But I dont think  UKI was the 
cause of their distress,  however  much they disagree  with the liability decision.
Overall I think  UKI made a fair and reasonable decision to accept  liability, in line with the 
policy terms. Im not recommending it take any further action.
Ref: DRN09925134In her response, Mrs D has queried  how Mr D could be expected to be aware  of an 
emergency vehicle  coming from behind when  two others had recently passed and a 
combined total of three sirens were  on at full volume. She also says the crash happened  so 
quickly (as the emergency vehicle was being  driven at speed) that Mr D had no time to see 
or hear the emergency vehicles approach.
Id like to reiterate that my role here is not to decide  who was at fault for the crash.  Rather, 
the decision I need to make  is whether  UKI has acted fairly  and reasonably in accepting  
liability on behalf of Mr D (which its entitled to do under the terms and conditions  of the 
policy). I have a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs D have  found  
themselves in. But that doesnt mean UKI has acted wrongly.
The CCTV clearly shows that Mr D began  his turn into the side road before the collision  
effectively turning into the path of the emergency  vehicle. I appreciate the events were very 
quick and Mr Ds car had moved only a very short distance. But the emergency vehicle, 
travelling with lights and sirens on, was entitled  to overtake traffic in the way it did. The 
Highway Code requires  other road users to allow emergency vehicles to pass  in such  
circumstances. In this particular case,  UKI didnt feel it could successfully defend  the claim at 
court. And I still think that was a reasonable decision.
Mrs D has made reference again  to the traffic officer she spoke to, and a driving instructor  
who has also offered their opinion. But as I said in my PD, I dont think  its unreasonable that 
UKI hasnt  considered the viewpoint of those  who didnt witness  the crash. I think  its fair to 
base its decision on the CCTV evidence plus eyewitness accounts.
In her response, Mrs D mentioned deterioration in Mr Ds health following the accident, 
which she believes is in part caused  by UKIs  liability decision.  Im sorry to hear of everything 
Mr and Mrs D have experienced during what I know has been a very difficult  and stressful 
time. 
But while I do appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ds strength of feeling in this matter, I cant say UKI 
has done anything  wrong. Having reviewed  the footage, it thinks its unlikely  to be able to 
defend Mr D in court. So its accepted  liability on a without prejudice basis   meaning Mr D 
can still take legal action or defend  himself  in court. Its entitled to do this. And from 
everything Ive seen, I dont think thats  an unreasonable decision.
Mrs D hasnt mentioned the service  provided  by UKI in her response to my provisional 
decision. So I dont  think I need  to revisit my findings on this point. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and am not asking UK Insurance  Limited to take 
any action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.  
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0992513