K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  misled him about the cover hed have after 
it took over his private medical insurance policy from his previous insurer. 
background
Mr L held a private medical  insurance policy with an insurer. That insurer  then sold its private 
medical insurance business to AXA. When Mr Ls policy was due to renew in 2016, AXA 
offered him a new policy. Mr L accepted  this and his cover switched to a policy  with AXA.  
Mr L then made a claim under the policy.  He was told that the hospital he wanted to use 
(which had been covered under his previous policy) wasnt on AXAs list of approved 
hospitals. Under the terms  of his policy, AXA would only pay 60% of the charges and Mr L 
would need to make up the shortfall. Unhappy  with this, Mr L looked into taking out 
alternative cover. He was unhappy  to learn  that he could  take out cheaper cover  elsewhere. 
He complained to AXA about this. 
AXA didnt uphold  Mr Ls complaint. It thought it had given him sufficient  information  about 
his cover under the policy before the switch  took place. Mr L remained unhappy. He thought 
AXA had misled him about the cover hed have under the policy, and also thought  AXA 
should have offered him a more  cost effective policy than it had done. He brought  a 
complaint to this service.  
During our investigations into Mr Ls complaint, it transpired that AXA had made an error in 
calculating Mr Ls premium. It agreed to refund this, plus interest. Our adjudicator thought  
this was fair. She didnt think AXA had misled Mr L about the cover he would have  under  the 
policy. 
Mr L disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In 2015, Mr Ls previous  insurer wrote to him to explain  that it had sold its private  medical 
insurance business to AXA. It said AXA would contact him to offer him a replacement policy,  
which would include continuation of cover without  further medical underwriting. 
In February 2016,  AXA wrote to Mr L about continuing his cover from the next renewal. It 
said it had carefully chosen  the best match for his cover from its range of products. The letter 
said it was enclosing a pack to give him all the information he needed, including  some 
options if he wanted to change his cover. It also confirmed it had included a key differences 
document.
Ive looked at the key differences  document, and this said the following regarding  hospitals:
We have relationships  with a large number  of hospitals and medical facilities  across  the UK; 
however, there may be a few differences to the hospitals available to you on your new plan. 
Please call us before  starting any treatment so that we can confirm which hospitals you can 
Ref: DRN09438982use. If you choose to use a hospital that is not in our Directory of Hospitals only limited cover  
will be available to you.
Mr L was also provided with a membership  guide and membership statement, both of which 
explained how he could  access the hospital  list. 
Im satisfied that the information AXA sent Mr L made him aware  that the hospitals which 
were covered under his previous policy were not necessarily the same as those that would 
be covered under the AXA policy. I think Mr L could have looked into this further if he 
wished. 
Mr L says hes recently  become aware  that AXA operates two hospital  lists. One list is 
limited to covering  150 hospitals - which is the list that applied to his policy.  The other list 
covers 250 hospitals, including Mr Ls preferred hospital. He thinks  he should have gone 
onto the policy which covered 250 hospitals. 
As I understand it, Mr Ls previous insurer offered  three  hospital  networks,  whereas  AXA 
offers two. It seems AXA transferred Mr L to a policy with the more  limited hospital list 
because this most closely matched the cover  he had with the previous insurer. This seems 
reasonable to me. 
Mr L complains  that he had a £400  excess with the previous insurer, yet AXA gave him an 
excess of £500.  He thinks this wasnt made clear. He also says AXA offers  excesses of £0, 
£250 and £500, and he thinks  it didnt  give him the best match.
The key differences  document  said that AXA would transfer Mr L to its nearest equivalent 
excess, and he should see his membership  certificate for his new excess amount.  
I see the £500 excess was clearly  highlighted within Mr Ls membership certificate. Im also 
satisfied that AXA did transfer Mr L to its nearest equivalent excess,  as £500 was the 
nearest excess to £400 that it offered. 
Mr L also makes  the point that he thinks moratorium  underwriting  would have been suitable  
for him, which would  have  made  his policy cheaper.
AXA has explained that the policy was arranged using  the same  medical  underwriting as 
Mr L held with the previous insurer. He didnt have moratorium underwriting  with the 
previous insurer, and so it says it wouldnt  have  changed this unless hed specifically 
requested it do so. 
I think AXAs explanation  is reasonable. If it had changed Mr Ls method of underwriting  to 
the cheaper option of moratorium, then the policy  wouldnt have covered any pre-existing 
conditions Mr L may have had.
Whilst our adjudicator was looking into Mr Ls complaint, AXA realised it had mistakenly 
overcharged Mr L for two policy years. Its offered to refund the overpaid premiums, plus 
interest. I think  this is fair. 
Mr L has now left AXA and taken  out cover elsewhere. However, hes recently obtained a 
quote from AXA and he says its willing to offer him the same cover  as he previously held, 
but for significantly less cost. He questions the fairness of this. 
Ref: DRN09438983We asked AXA about this, and it explains the difference in cost is because Mr Ls AXA policy  
was arranged on a continued medical underwriting basis (in other words, it carried over the 
underwriting from the previous policy), whereas Mr L was re-underwritten  for the new quote 
and so existing  conditions would be excluded. Having a policy  newly underwritten made it 
much cheaper. Im satisfied by this explanation.  
Overall, whilst I appreciate Mr L thinks that alternative options would have been more 
suitable for him, I think  the policy was sold fairly and AXA didnt mislead Mr L about the 
cover it was offering  him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
to refund the overpaid premium of £748.94. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date the premium was paid to the date of settlement*. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0943898