K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs J took out with a store  card in 1998. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why below.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Js application  form for the store card.  This included a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if she wanted to take it out. The box has been ticked  
and Mrs J signed at the end of the form to say she agreed with it.
Based on this, I think FICL made  it clear  to Mrs J that she had a choice about the PPI, and 
that Mrs J chose to take it knowing she didnt have  to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs J any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs J. But it did have to make  sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs J about the costs, benefits and main  exclusions 
of the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out 
for longer than Mrs J has told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And Mrs J has 
told us she didnt have  any other  means she couldve  used to make her repayments if she 
wasnt earning. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful to her. And so I dont think 
better information about the PPI wouldve put Mrs J off taking it out.
Ref: DRN09717492my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0971749