K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr P was given three loans by Satsuma between January  and June 2016. Each of the loans 
was scheduled  to be repaid in weekly instalments  the first two loans over 13 weeks and 
the final loan over 21 weeks. Mr P repaid his first two loans early, but a balance  remains  
outstanding on the final loan. A summary of Mr Ps borrowing  from Satsuma is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 24/01/2016 12/03/2016 £ 100
2 15/04/2016 29/05/2016 £ 100
3 06/06/2016 - £ 200
Mr Ps complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She thought that the checks  
Satsuma had done before lending to Mr P had been sufficient. And since those checks  
suggested that the loans  were affordable for Mr P she didnt  think Satsuma had been wrong 
to lend them. So she didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Satsuma was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr P 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr P was borrowing, and his lending history, but 
there was no set list of checks Satsuma  had to do.
Satsuma has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr P. Before each loan it 
asked him for details  of his income  and his normal expenditure. It says that it validated  what  
Mr P said about his income  with a credit  reference agency. And it says that it used some 
industry standard data, and the results of its credit  check, to ensure what Mr P declared for 
his expenditure  was realistic. On each occasion  it applied a higher level of expenditure than 
Mr P declared when assessing the affordability of the loan.
Generally, the information a consumer might  see, when they request a copy  of their credit 
file, might be very different to that seen by a lender.  A lender  might only see a small portion 
of the credit  file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up 
to date. Here, although Satsuma says it used the credit  check  to make  sure Mr P had 
reasonably declared  his current  credit expenditure, I dont know  whether  the checks  
Ref: DRN01780262extended to a more detailed review  of Mr Ps credit  history. I can see that Mr P had defaulted 
on a telecoms account around a year before he took his first loan. But even if Satsuma  had 
seen that information, I dont  think that default, given its nature and timing, would be enough 
for me to conclude  that Satsuma  should have done more  checks.
For each of the loans the amount Mr P asked to borrow was relatively  low compared to the 
income he declared to Satsuma. He was scheduled to repay  the loans over an extended 
period, so the repayments he needed to make were much lower than if hed taken a normal  
payday loan. And even  allowing for the increased expenditure that Satsuma calculated those 
repayments appeared to be easily affordable.
I have considered that for the final loan, Satsumas estimate of Mr Ps disposable income 
was £154 per month. And the repayment  he needed  to make was approximately £71 per 
month. That didnt  leave much for Mr P should  he face an unexpected  emergency. But Ive 
also considered  that Mr P told Satsuma that he had £570 per month  left over.  So I think 
when it applied its increases to Mr Ps expenditure Satsuma was already taking account of 
the possibility  that his expenditure  would be higher than expected.
I appreciate that Mr Ps finances  were  in poor shape, and that he was borrowing regularly 
from a number of other short term lenders. But that wasnt  something he told Satsuma when 
he asked for the loans,  nor do I think it is something Satsuma should have discovered from 
proportionate checks. I think it was reasonable here for Satsuma to rely on the information  
that Mr P provided about his finances  when assessing the affordability of the loans. I dont 
think it would  be proportionate to expect Satsuma  to have  gone  further  and sought  to 
independently verify what  Mr P had said. And as the information  Mr P provided  suggested  
that the loans  were  affordable for him I dont think that Satsuma did anything  wrong  when it 
agreed to lend.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0178026