K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Polesworth Garage Limited refused to let them reject a car 
which was bought with a conditional sale agreement.
background
In June 2017 Mr T bought a second hand  car from Polesworth. Mrs T, who is Mr Ts mother, 
is also party  to the agreement. The car was some  nine years old and had done 57,539 miles. 
He had a number of problems which arose in the first few months which Polesworth says 
were addressed. In November 2017  an engine management light came on and Mr T 
contacted Polesworth. He was asked to bring  the car and in and the employee  suggested  
that the outstanding issues could be addressed when he brought  the car in for its service.  It 
wasnt inspected by the garage  at this point. He says he as told he would  have to pay for any 
repairs as the car was outside the three  month warranty.
The issues  which  I gather  remain unresolved  are the engine management light issue, a 
faulty CD player, a water  pump problem, faulty  washers and a smell coming from the air 
vents. He also says that a scuff on the bumper and the leather gear gaiter hadnt been fixed 
as Polesworth  claimed.  He says that he was told that the cam belt would be replaced, but 
this hasnt been done.
Polesworth say that they addressed the minor faults  and Mr T didnt bring  the car to it for a 
service so the other matters couldnt be addressed. It said they were minor  issues  that would 
be dealt with in the service.  Mr T complained  and said that under consumer law the garage 
should address  the problems he had encountered  in the first six months.  It pointed  out the 
car had exceeded  the service mileage limit.
It said he didnt respond to an email and in the meantime it had contacted the previous  
owner about the cambelt. Mr T brought his complaint to this service  and the matter  was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.  During our enquiries 
Mr T said the engine lost power and some months later in August 2018 he took off the road 
and bought an alternative car. However Mr T made  significant use of the car and by August 
2018 he had done almost  18,000 miles. He also had it serviced elsewhere and it passed a 
MOT. 
The investigator noted the car was bought with a conditional  sales agreement and that under 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 if a consumer discovers a fault within  the first six months  of 
having the product, it's presumed to have been there since the point of sale,  unless there's 
sufficient evidence to contradict  this.
It's the retailers responsibility  to prove  the fault didn't exist at point of sale.  If an attempt at 
repair or replacement  has failed, the consumer  has the right to reject the goods for a full 
refund, or price reduction if they wish to keep the product.
He said Mr T had provided evidence that not only did he ask for the scuff  on the bumper and 
gear gaiter to be repaired, but he also asked  if the cam belt and CD player  could be 
repaired. 
It was accepted by all that Mr T contacted  Polesworth again regarding the engine 
management light in November 2017. The email  exchange  indicates Polesworth told him he 
would have to pay for any repairs as the car was out of warranty  by that point. The 
Ref: DRN02505072investigator said that under consumer legislation Polesworth had a duty to inspect  the car for 
faults. As this issue was raised within six months, he concluded  the garage should  have 
reviewed the issue  without charge.
The investigator noted there was a break in communication at the beginning of 2018  and 
Polesworth didnt  hear from Mr T. He says he didnt get the emails it claimed to have sent. 
However the investigator didnt think this was central  to the complaint. He believed  the car 
had problems within six months and it was incumbent of Polesworth to address  these  rather 
than leave them for the service.
He didnt think the lack of servicing was a key issue. He considered that Polesworth  had 
been made aware of faults within six months and he thought it would be reasonable a car 
costing some £10,000 not to come with the faults  Mr T had identified. 
He suggested  Polesworth should  do the following:
arrange collection of the car at no inconvenience to Mr T,
pay £300 compensation for the loss of enjoyment,
refund  the deposit if applicable,
refund  payments from April 2018  as this is when  the Polesworth should've looked 
into the faults properly,
apply 8% simple interest  from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Polesworth didnt  agree and said there  was no evidence  of the engine management light 
problem and if it had failed the car wouldnt have passed the MOT. It said the scuffs  and 
minor cosmetic issues had been fixed. It also believed the CD and washers had failed due to 
lack of servicing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Polesworth is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible  
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN02505073Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mr T identified a number of problems with the car, but the key one appears  to be the engine  
management light coming on. He contacted  the garage and took it in, but no inspection was 
undertaken. It seems  the garage decided to note the outstanding issues  and suggest that 
these be addressed during the next service. I find that rather  odd given  there may well have 
been a serious  problem.  
It seems  that the garage wasnt fully aware  of its responsibilities under the Consumer Rights  
Act 2015 and presumed that as the car was out of warranty  that any repairs  were  the 
responsibility of Mr T. I note that in recent correspondence it said that what it regards as 
routine issues would have been  done free of charge when the car was serviced. However 
that presumes  Mr T was under an obligation to have it serviced by Polesworth garage.
I think the garage didnt  address Mr Ts complaint properly and failed to inspect the car when 
it could have done so. I also note a lack of detailed records from Polesworth. It has supplied 
some emails, but no internal contact details or records of work done on the car. 
I agree  with the investigator the apparent lack of servicing by Mr T doesnt affect the matter. 
The question is whether the car was of suitable quality at the point of sale taking into 
account its age etc. I believe on balance Mr T has demonstrated that it wasnt  of acceptable 
quality. 
Set against  the issues which Mr T has identified I have to take into account  that he was able 
to drive the car for some  18,000  miles  and it passed its MOT. He has said the light came  on 
intermittently and so it didnt cause a problem  with the MOT. He also had some work done  to 
it by another garage prior to the test at his own cost.
So even though he made use of the car I dont consider Polesworth addressed the faults  as 
it should have  done and didnt establish  what needed to be fixed when the problems were 
brought to its attention. It may be that it could  have effected repairs easily, but it chose not to 
do so and on balance  I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. 
I direct  Polesworth Garage Limited  to:
unwind the agreement,
arrange collection of the car at no inconvenience to Mr T,
pay £300 compensation for the loss of enjoyment,
refund  the deposit,
refund  payments from April 2018  as Polesworth should have looked  into the faults 
properly by this time,
apply 8% simple interest  from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN02505074my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Polesworth Garage  Limited  to 
compensate Mr T as set out above.  Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0250507