K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr G says MBNA Limited mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think MBNA made it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because  
Ive been given a copy of the script the representative was supposed  to follow  at the time 
and I can see that the representative was supposed  to only add the cover if they got the 
consumers agreement. And in asking for that agreement they were supposed to do so in 
a way that made it clear the cover was optional. I havent  seen  sufficient evidence  to find 
that this guidance was not followed in this case.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But he chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time it seems  he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover.  And 
Ive considered that Mr G told us he couldnt recall  with accuracy  what his sick pay 
benefits were and that he had only modest other means  to rely on in the event he was 
too ill to work, or if he lost his job. This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in 
the event Mr G lost his job. In the event Mr G was too ill to work, this policy could have  
paid out until the balance  was repaid.  So as that may have  spared  Mr G from having to 
sell his car, and would have reduced  Mr Gs reliance on any help his partner may have 
been able to provide him, I think the policy would have  been  useful to him if something 
went wrong, even at this low level of benefit. So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI and its cost would have put him off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against MBNA  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01250542
Ref: DRN0125054