K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say they were mis-sold a regular  premium  mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a joint mortgage with BOS  in 2001. At the same  time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to covering Mr S should he be too sick to work or lose his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They say they didnt need  the policy and didnt know they had it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that they had a choice  in taking the policy and 
that they agreed to buy it. Mr and Mrs S havent provided any real specific details about the 
sale which is understandable considering the amount  of time that has passed. But BOS have 
given us a copy  of the MPPI application form signed  by both Mr and Mrs S and have 
confirmed not long after the policy was taken out Mr S had a successful unemployment claim 
on the policy. 
So I think its likely that Mr and Mrs S were aware  they had the policy  as they made a claim 
on the policy and they agreed  to take it by signing an application  for it because they wanted 
the cover. And I think they wouldve  understood  the policy was optional because  the policy 
only covered Mr S - despite both Mr and Mrs S being employed and jointly responsible  for 
the mortgage. I wouldve thought if the policy was compulsory both Mr and Mrs S would 
have been covered.
I can see from BOSs  internal records that the policy was sold during a meeting at a branch. 
So to put Mr and Mrs S in the best possible position Im treating the sale as if BOS advised 
them to take the policy. What this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so that Mr and Mrs S could make  an 
informed choice about buying  MPPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable
Ref: DRN04959652recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
He was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs S say that Mr S had some sick pay and had savings they could use to 
make their repayments if Mr S couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top 
of this and for potentially longer,  covering their mortgage payments for up to 24 
months if Mr S was unable  to work  due to accident or sickness  or if he lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs S in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve been  interested in protecting  them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs S at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel  it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr and Mrs S information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS  did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same  reasons  that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs S has told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd  been  
given all the proper  information. So this means  Mr and Mrs S arent worse off as a result of 
any wrong doing by BOS.
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  against  Bank  of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0495965