K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that NRAM Limited (previously Northern Rock) lent her money on a further  
advance that it shouldnt have done.  
background
In March 2004 Ms H made an application for a new mortgage with NRAM to buy a new 
house. According to the application  her existing  mortgage was on an interest only basis  for 
£262,500 with repayments of £822  a month.  The existing property was valued at £390,000 
and £37,000 of the equity  in the existing  property was to be used as a deposit  for the new 
property. 
The application recorded  Ms H as working  for her husbands law firm with earnings of 
£72,500 in 2001, £81,000 in 2002 and £83,400  in 2003. The application  was made on a self-
certified basis. Ms H was applying for a new mortgage for a new build property valued at 
£248,000 and needed a mortgage of £209,000. Interest rates  were  fixed  on the new property 
at 4.39% for two years.
The new mortgage  completed towards  the end of July 2004 and Ms H moved  into her new 
house the following month. That same  month  Ms H made another  application to NRAM for a 
£35,000 further advance.  Although  the application  form itself isnt available, Northern Rocks 
records show the purpose was debt consolidation.  The application was assessed; a desk  top 
valuation of the property carried out, and as the lending fell within NRAMs lending criteria,  
the further advance was granted.  The further advance completed  on 27 October  2004.  
Ms H tells us that at the time of both applications  she was in fact a house wife and not 
working for her husbands law firm; the deposit for the new house was borrowed from her 
parents. She also tells us that the mortgage and further advance  were arranged  through  a 
family friend and she just signed blank documents. At the time, Ms H says her husbands law 
firm was in financial trouble and unbeknownst  to her at the time of the further  advance, 
bankruptcy proceedings were being taken against him. He was subsequently made bankrupt  
in January 2005. Ms Hs husband  passed  away in 2012 following which  the property was 
sold. 
Ms H accepts she has benefitted from the original mortgage as she lived in the house. But 
she complains she never  benefitted  from the further advance as this went  straight to her 
husbands business. So she complained the further advance  was mis-sold. NRAM 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it as the mortgage wasnt arranged  through  it but 
an intermediary, so any complaint about that needed to be made to them.
Unhappy with the response, Ms H asked  us to look into her complaint. She was particularly 
unhappy as she believed the further  advanced  was granted after the regulation of mortgages  
and so more checks ought to have  been done by NRAM. She considers that neither the 
mortgage nor the further advance were affordable and shouldnt  have been granted, 
although she only wishes to complain about the further advance. She says this caused  her 
significant financial difficulty. And had NRAM carried out proper checks  it would have been 
apparent bankruptcy proceedings were taking place against her husband. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found the application process was 
completed by an intermediary and not NRAM and so any complaint about  the income figures 
and other  information  provided on which the mortgage was based should be directed to 
Ref: DRN06621802them. She concluded NRAM were entitled  to rely on the information  it was given. The 
investigator also said the mortgage  and further advance were  taken out prior to regulation  
and that Ms H husbands position wouldnt have come to light as any affordability 
assessment was only carried out on her as the sole applicant. 
Although initially  accepting the outcome, Ms H asked for a final decision. In summary, she 
said:
Its the date the mortgage completed and the money was drawn  down that 
determines whether  a mortgage is regulated or not and she checked this with our 
office and the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme.  The further advance was 
drawn down in November 2004 which means  it is regulated.  
NRAM should have  provided a KFI (key facts illustration), a cost illustration, the 
different repayment  options and discussed affordability.
A further  advance so soon after the initial mortgage application  should  have raised  
alarm bells. 
The further advance  was paid straight  into her husbands business  account which  
she didnt agree to.
Shes checked our website and we dont appear  to uphold many  complaints about 
NRAM. 
Shes very unhappy NRAM  wouldnt agree  to a further fixed rate on the mortgage 
when the two year fixed rate expired in 2006.
With regard to the complaint about  a new fixed rate, a new complaint has been set up for 
that as it is a separate matter occurring  two years after the further advance was granted. 
Since the matter  was referred to me I have asked  for and obtained some further information:
Ms H has confirmed  she is unable to provide evidence the mortgage was drawn 
down in November  2004 although she says this was confirmed by NRAM to a 
financial journalist.
I asked for a copy of the further advance  application but this hasnt been provided. 
I asked for NRAMs lending criteria applicable at the time, which  it has provided, but it 
hasnt been able to provide any of the credit checks conducted. 
I asked NRAM if it consented to this complaint being  considered  as it is late (Ms H has 
complained more than six years  after the event complained of and more  than three years  
after she ought reasonably to have  been  aware of cause for complaint).  It consented to us 
investigating this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 December 2018 explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint.  I said:
Although Ms H is only complaining about the further  advance, I consider it relevant to 
consider the circumstances  of the original  mortgage application when determining the 
complaint about  that.
Its important to point  out that NRAM didnt arrange this mortgage, it simply agreed  to lend. 
The mortgage was arranged by a mortgage  intermediary who was also a family friend. So in 
relation to the completing of the application  forms and the provision of information about  the 
mortgage and the further advance,  that was the responsibility of the intermediary not NRAM.
Ref: DRN06621803Having carefully considered the information provided and Ms Hs testimony, it appears the 
person directing the mortgage application and the further advance  was Ms Hs husband 
rather than Ms H herself. 
I accept Ms H signed blank documents and didnt knowingly mislead NRAM about her 
employment status or earnings. But by signing blank documents  she did leave herself  open  
to such abuse.  And NRAM was entitled  to rely on the contents  of the application  form in 
good faith. After  all, the application  had been  submitted  by someone who was a member  of 
the Mortgage Code Compliance Board at the time (a voluntary  standards scheme prior to 
mortgage regulation).  And Ms H had signed  the document which  included a statement that 
the information provided in the application was true. 
The application was on a self-certified basis. This meant the applicant was certifying they 
earned the level of income stated and evidence,  such as pay slips,  accountants records  etc, 
didnt need to be provided.  The mortgage application showed Ms H worked at her husbands 
law firm and earned between £72,000 and over £83,000 in the three years prior to the 
application. I accept  this wasnt true, but I dont  think there was anything  within  the 
application that would have caused  NRAM to question this further  or alerted it to that; many 
husbands and wives  work together and that level of earnings wouldnt have been considered 
unusual in that sector.
Although NRAM no longer  has evidence of the credit  searches it completed, which isnt 
surprising given this took place 14 years  ago, it has provided a copy  of its lending  criteria at 
the time.  This shows that Ms Hs stated level of income fell well within its lending range for 
this borrowing even  if she had a low credit score. And its records show it did an assessment 
at the time. 
Given the information it had, and that it was entitled  to rely on that in good faith, Im not 
persuaded NRAM did anything wrong  in relation to granting the mortgage.  
The mortgage completed towards the end of July 2004. Soon after, within August  2004 
although it isnt clear when, another application  was submitted for a further  advance  of 
£35,000. A copy of the application  for the further advance doesnt  appear to be available 
(again this isnt surprising  given the time that has passed). But NRAMs internal  records 
show the further advance was for debt consolidation.
Ms H believes this should have rung alarm bells and I have thought  about this carefully.  I 
can understand why Ms H makes this argument,  but there is nothing unusual  in further 
advances being  applied for soon  after mortgages have been agreed. Many people find 
themselves in the position of making  further  advance applications  for a variety of reasons 
and I dont think this, of itself, ought  to have given any cause for concern.  
Ms H is also unhappy that she never agreed  to the further advance  being paid into her 
husbands business account.  As mentioned above,  we dont have a copy of the further 
advance application,  but if she signed  blank documents then its likely this information  would 
have been input afterwards, so without  her express knowledge. But NRAM would  have 
received instructions for the further advance  to be completed in this way from the 
intermediary. And it would have done so on the understanding that those instructions came 
from Ms H.  
Ms H makes  much of the fact she didnt benefit  from the further advance and so she 
shouldnt have had to repay  it. Although  I think its arguable if she benefitted or not, given it 
Ref: DRN06621804was to help her husbands business, many types of loan for many different purposes are 
secured against  properties. And as mentioned  above, NRAMs internal records showed the 
application was for debt consolidation; I dont think the fact the money  went  to the same 
place as the mortgage, her husbands  business  account, would have given any cause for 
concern or prompted it to do further digging, particularly given Ms H has confirmed she did 
have other  debts at the time. Indeed,  as we dont have a copy  of the application form, it 
might not have been clear NRAM ought to have known the destination  account  wasnt  hers.
NRAMs records show it did a desk top valuation of the property to see if the further advance 
met its lending criteria. Such desk top valuations arent unusual in the mortgage industry; 
particularly where  further borrowing is applied for a short time after a mortgage has been 
granted. This valuation and further  assessment showed Ms H remained within  NRAMs 
lending criteria based on information it already had. 
Finally, I turn to Ms Hs points about the mortgage being regulated and the requirements that 
would have placed on NRAM. I do need  to explain  there have been  a number of changes  to 
the mortgage regulations since they first became  regulated on 31 October 2004. And it 
would only be the regulations that applied at the time that are relevant, more recent changes 
arent retrospective. 
NRAMs records show the mortgage was completed  on 27 October  2004,  prior to the 
regulations coming  into force on 31 October 2004.  Although she says NRAM said the 
mortgage was drawn  down  in November 2004, I havent been provided  with any actual 
evidence thats  the case. And although Ms H has been informed its when  the draw  down  
takes place that decides  whether  or not a mortgage  is regulated, having looked at the 
regulations its not clear  thats actually the case. The Perimeter  Guidance,  contained in the 
regulators handbook of rules and guidance, refers  to the date a mortgage is entered  into. But 
entered into isnt defined and I think  its ambiguous whats  meant by this. 
But even if I accept Ms Hs argument,  which I dont necessarily, this doesnt actually help 
her. Thats because the mortgage and the further advance were  still arranged through a 
mortgage intermediary.  Under the regulations introduced on 31 October 2004 it was for the 
business dealing  directly with the customer to ensure that all the requirements in relation to 
the giving  of illustrations  etc were met, there  was no obligation on a lender to ensure  that 
information had been provided  before accepting an application (MCOB 5.5.7 from 31 
October 2004). So there wouldnt have been any obligation  on NRAM to provide a cost 
illustration, a KFI or repayment options when it received the further advance application. And 
the same  regulations allowed  a lender to accept applications on a self-certified basis. 
I do understand Ms H feels very strongly  about this. But it seems both Ms H and NRAM are 
the victims  of what appears  to be a dishonest application. As I dont find NRAM has done 
anything wrong, Im not currently minded  to uphold this complaint  or ask it to refund to Ms H 
any of the repayments she made towards the further  advance.
In response Ms H has, in summary,  said:
NRAM only offered a standard rate after the fixed rated  expired  which  cost thousands 
more in interest. The rate issue doesnt  appear  to have been investigated at all. 
The ombudsmans inability to determine  the date regulation began or at least  know  
what entered into means is unacceptable, and she isnt prepared  to have this case  
decided by an issue which should  not be ambiguous.  It is for the ombudsman  to 
apply to the court to determine any ambiguity  in the wording of mortgage regulation. 
Ref: DRN06621805The ombudsman simply cannot throw up their hands  and say they cannot make up 
their minds.  Given  regulation was announced  many months  in advance then lenders 
should have policies and procedures in place  beforehand. 
Its a sham that businesses are not required to keep records for a long as a customer 
has the ability to complain and questions how some information can be provided  and 
not all of it. She considers this unfair. 
Other borrowing has been  challenged and written  off. 
Has NRAM been asked for statements  showing the lending being transferred. If the 
money was asked for on 27 October 2004 it would have taken three  working days  
and so it would have arrived the following Monday   1 November 2004. NRAM 
should be able to provide evidence of when the money was transferred or at least  
how long it took. 
The ombudsmans decision suggests  she has been the victim of a dishonest 
application and so she might have a case against the broker.  If this is the case why 
havent we acted in her best interests  and advised her of this. She doesnt feel the 
ombudsman service  is a body designed to protect the consumer.  
She has been told by NRAM  it has information going back  further than this and is 
able to provide  both application forms and credit  checks. 
NRAM had nothing further to add. 
Given the comments Ms H made  since my provisional decision, we have confirmed:
To Ms H that her complaint about  the rate change is being dealt with separately by 
this office. We also reminded Ms H that we had in fact pointed  out the mortgage had 
been arranged  by a broker earlier on in the process and that it was for her to decide 
whether or not to make  a complaint. 
We again asked  NRAM for a copy of the application form and credit checks given  
Ms Hs comments. NRAM explained  is doesnt  have  a copy of the further advance  
application or the credit checks. It explained  the call Ms H had with one of its agents 
was in relation  to a subject access request and it was explained that would include all 
the information it held on her. It further  said the agent wouldnt have known whether 
the application was on file as he wouldnt have had access  to that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I think it would be helpful if I explain to Ms H that we are not a consumer champion, we have 
no consumer protection  role per se. We are an independent, impartial, organisation that 
doesnt act for the consumer or the business  complained about. 
Ms H doesnt think its fair that business arent required  to keep records  as long as consumer 
can make  a complaint   she makes reference to a customer having three years to complain 
about a sale.
Businesses data retention obligations  are set by the relevant data regulations. At the time of 
Ms H applying for the mortgage and further advance that was the Data  Protection Act 1998. 
On 25 May 2018 that Act was replaced by the General Data  Protection Regulations (GDPR).  
As a general principle  businesses shouldnt keep data for longer  than necessary. I do 
Ref: DRN06621806understand Ms Hs point  that might  mean  records arent available when a complaint is made. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory I make my decision on the 
balance of probability  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened  given  the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
I would also add that our time limit rules  are completely separate to legislation  for the 
retention of records. And I have pointed out above  that Ms Hs complaint is actually late  it 
has been made outside of the time limits that apply as she ought  to have been aware 
something had gone  wrong with her mortgage many years  ago. But as NRAM consented  to 
the complaint  being considered I am allowed to investigate it. Because  of the length of time 
since the mortgage and further advance were granted  that will invariably mean  some  
documentation is no longer available. 
I disagree with Ms H that I have an inability to determine the date of regulation  I have very 
clearly said it was 31 October 2004.  And although I understand the sentiments behind her 
comments about advanced notification of the legislation, I am not aware of any requirement 
for lenders or brokers to have applied the requirements before they came  into force. 
I can see Ms H is very unhappy that I believe entered into is ambiguous. But it is for me to 
decide what information I need  in order to reach  a fair and reasonable decision. Ms H will 
see from my provisional findings that I did go onto consider whether it would advance Ms Hs 
case if I agreed the mortgage  was regulated and for the reasons  already given I didnt  think it 
did. It doesnt appear Ms H has read this part of my provisional findings,  which  clearly 
reached an outcome.
For the sake of completeness I will further  explain  this part of my decision. Ms Hs 
application was submitted  by a mortgage  broker;  the mortgage  wasnt applied  for directly 
with NRAM. Under the regulations introduced on 31 October 2004 (MCCOB 5.5.7) it was 
explained:
The firm dealing directly with the customer is responsible for ensuring  compliance 
with the content  and timing requirements, that is, a mortgage lender is not 
responsible for ensuring that a customer has received an illustration before accepting 
an application from a mortgage intermediary. [my emphasis]
So it was for the broker to ensure  that Ms H received  a cost illustration, a KFI or information 
about the repayment options when she applied for the further advance. There  was no 
requirement for NRAM to do this also, or to check it had happened.   
  
The same regulations allowed the acceptance of self-certification of income. MCOB 11.3.2 
says:
In taking account of a customers ability to repay  a loan for the purposes of MCOB 
11.3.1R (1), a firm may rely upon self-certification of income by the customer  in 
circumstances where  the firm considers is appropriate, having due regard to the 
interests of the customer, and where the firm has no reasonable grounds  for doubting 
the information provided. 
As set out in my provisional  decision  Ms H says she signed blank documents.  But the 
application NRAM received said she worked  for her husbands law firm earning between 
£72,000 and £83,000 in the three  years prior to the application. There  is a covering  form 
which does have both Mr H and Mrs Hs names on it. But the application for the mortgage, 
Ref: DRN06621807which was signed  and dated  by Ms H on 25 March 2004, is a sole application. It didnt 
contain any information about  her husband  and so the earning  information related to her. I 
cant see anything within the application  or the surrounding documentation  that ought  to 
have alerted NRAM to the information  being  incorrect. In such  circumstances, it was fairly 
entitled to rely on it in good faith.  
I dont have a copy of the further advance application, and although  I accept I dont know  for 
certain, I dont believe the information  would have been any different. And so again  NRAM 
would have been entitled to fairly  rely on it. As set out above, the regulations,  if they applied,  
allowed lenders  to accept self-certified income where the lender  had no reasonable grounds 
for doubting it. 
Given the regulations  in place, if they applied, NRAM  was only responsible for ensuring the 
mortgage and further advance were  affordable. Ms H is aware the actual credit  checks from 
the time arent  available. So the only information I have to consider is the lending  criteria. 
And as already found Ms Hs stated level of income  fell well within its lending criteria even if 
shed had a low credit  score.  And that same criteria encompassed the further advance as 
well.  
So I have  considered the regulations and whether they would mean NRAM had done 
anything wrong. And for the reasons  given  I dont find it did.  
I acknowledge Ms H feels very aggrieved about  this situation. And I know she is unlikely to 
agree with the outcome  I have reached. Ms H is free to reject  my decision if she wishes, 
which will mean any legal rights she has against NRAM will remain  intact.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 
26 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0662180