K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr D says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr D says he wasnt told the PPI was optional and he was led to believe he wouldnt get the 
mortgage without  taking it out. I accept that (over  20 years  on) this is how Mr D might  
remember the sale. But theres a difference between Santander encouraging him to take out 
PPI and pressuring him to do so. 
I have to weigh up what Mr D has said against the other available evidence to decide what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened. And while I accept its possible Mr D wasnt given a 
choice about taking out the PPI, of the two options  I think its more likely  than not Santander 
made it clear  he didnt have to take out PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this.
I say this because  the paperwork from the time sets out the PPI as optional.  The mortgage  
application form says:
We strongly recommend that you protect  yourself if the worst should happen and youre 
unable to pay your mortgage. 
Abbey National  Paymentcare has been  designed to safeguard your mortgage  payments if 
youre unable  to work due to accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. 
Do you wish to take out Paymentcare?  
There is then a tick in the yes box to say Mr D did want to take it out. There  was an equally 
prominent no box that could also have been  ticked.  Mr D then had to sign a separate  PPI 
application form, which suggests it was something separate to the mortgage he had to apply 
for, rather than being part of a package.
Santander probably did tell Mr D it would be a good  idea to take out the PPI, as Ill go on to 
explain, I think it was. But theres not enough to support  what  hes said about the adviser 
giving him the impression  it was something  he had to have.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   he was in 
permanent employment  and from what hes told us, he was in good health.
Ref: DRN02975672I also think Mr D had a need for the cover provided  by the PPI, despite what  hes told about 
his employment  and employee benefits at the time.  Mr Ds employer is likely to have offered 
good sickness benefits  he would probably get full pay for six months, followed by half pay 
for a further six months. But if he was off sick for more than six months, hes likely  to have 
struggled to keep up with his mortgage repayments,  as well as all the other household 
expenses, on half pay. The PPI would  make sure his mortgage  repayments  continued to be 
made  for up to 36 months if he had an accident  or was unable to work because of 
sickness. And I think this could have been useful.
Mr Ds said he was in secure employment  and had been in the same role for nearly 11 
years. But there was no guarantee  he wouldnt be made redundant. And if that did happen, I 
think its unlikely his redundancy pay would  have been equivalent to more  than six months  
pay  based on his length of service and age at the time. So a policy  that would cover his 
mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if he was made redundant does seem  like it would 
have been useful.
Although Mr D says he had savings that would have covered the mortgage repayments,  I 
note he didnt use these  to reduce the amount he was borrowing from Santander  the loan 
to value on his mortgage was quite  high. So it seems he wanted to keep  these savings intact 
or had other plans  for what  he was going  to spend this money  on. The PPI would mean  he 
wouldnt have needed to use his savings to make his mortgage repayments if he wasnt  
working and they could  be put to another use.  
Overall I think  the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr D. I think  it provided valuable  
cover to him given the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to his 
home and the potential  consequences should  he be unable to make the repayments on 
loans secured against his house.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive already explained, I think  its likely  he chose to take it out - so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what he has said about  the PPI 
continuing after his mortgage with Santander ended and receiving compensation for the sale 
of another PPI policy from a different business.  But these points dont change my decision.
If Mr D hadnt  wanted  to carry on with the PPI after his mortgage  with Santander was 
redeemed, he could  have  cancelled it. While  he says he didnt know he had it, the premiums  
would have been coming out of his bank account  for a number of years. And as the 
adjudicator explained, the insurer would still have paid out if a successful claim had been 
made. 
I can only comment on the complaint in front of me  about the sale of PPI by Santander. 
The fact another  business  might have concluded  a different PPI policy was mis-sold, doesnt  
affect my decision about this particular complaint.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Santander doesnt need  to refund 
everything Mr D paid for it. But Santander has already offered to give Mr D back  some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN02975673Santander will make  arrangements to pay Mr D now Ive issued my final decision.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0297567