K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr S took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1995. It seems  likely that he was sold PPI at the 
same time. 
The PPI wouldve helped cover  the repayments  on his credit card for up to 12 months at a 
time if he couldnt work. It also provided some  life cover. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld.  Mr S disagrees,  so his case  
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not certain when  the PPI was sold. Lloyds  only has records  dating back  to 2000. But I 
think its most likely  that the PPI was sold at the same time the credit card was taken out, 
and Mr S thinks this is what happened  too. I dont have any evidence  to suggest otherwise  
and this is the most usual time for PPI to be sold. 
Mr S says that he cant remember taking the PPI. He also said that if he had taken it, it 
wouldnt have been useful for him because he was self-employed  and may not have 
benefitted from some of the cover. 
I am not surprised that Mr S cant remember clearly  what happened  during a sale over 23 
years ago. Lloyds say that however  the credit card was sold,  Mr S wouldve had a clear 
choice about whether  to take the PPI. And from this services knowledge of Lloyds sales 
processes at that time I think its most likely that a clear choice was offered.
On the limited information I have available to me I cant safely  say that the PPI was added  
without Mr Ss knowledge or consent.  
Although Lloyds doesnt know  for sure how the PPI was sold,  it has accepted  that it would 
have personally  recommended  the PPI to Mr S. This places a greater responsibility  on 
Lloyds to take steps to make sure it was right for Mr S, so I think  this is a fair way to 
approach the issue. 
Looking at Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale I think it was suitable for him. I say this 
because:
Mr S was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim;
Ref: DRN08368172Mr S didnt  have any sick pay entitlement, so I think the policy  wouldve offered him a 
useful benefit  if he was too ill to work;
Mr S was self-employed,  so wouldnt have had any redundancy pay if he was out of 
work. Sometimes PPI policies make it very difficult for self-employed people to make 
an unemployment claim,  but Ive looked at the terms of the policy and Im satisfied it 
wouldnt have been onerous to do so. I think redundancy cover was useful for Mr S;
Mr S says that he had some  savings at the time of sale. But the policy  wouldve  paid 
out in addition to these, and for potentially  longer  than his savings  wouldve  been 
able to replace  his earnings if he wasnt working;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time; and I havent  seen anything  to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr S.
Lloyds also had a duty to make sure Mr S had all the information he needed to make his 
decision about the PPI. Its possible Lloyds didnt  give him all the information it shouldve  
done. But I dont  think more, or better, information wouldve made Mr S act differently and 
not buy the policy, because I think it was suitable for him. 
So I dont  think Mr S lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds  mightve  done  wrong.  This means 
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Lloyds doesnt  need to refund everything  Mr S paid for 
it. But Lloyds has already offered to give Mr S back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  
it needs to do anything more. 
If it hasnt  already, Lloyds  will make arrangements to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0836817