K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited (NFU)  
passed his personal details  to another party without his consent  after a claim on his motor  
insurance policy. He would like to know who did this.
background
Mr T made a claim on his policy to NFU following an accident with another  driver. Some  
months later, Mr T received calls on his mobile  phone from another  company. It knew  his 
details and asked  about the accident. Mr T thought only NFU had this information and he 
thought it must have  passed it on.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She couldnt say 
how the other company had obtained  Mr Ts details. But she couldnt see evidence that NFU 
or its agents had passed on Mr Ts details.
Mr T asked  for his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so its come  to me for a final 
decision. 
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr T found the unsolicited calls he received to be intrusive  and 
stressful. I can see that hes taken  steps  to block these calls and NFU has also explained 
that he can also use the call preference service to prevent these.
The adjudicator explained our role in complaints about data breaches. Its the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) to decide  if a business has breached  data 
protection laws.  But we can look at the level of service NFU provided in handling  Mr Ts data 
whilst it dealt with his claim. 
I can see that when  Mr T first complained to NFU it replied  very quickly that it had passed on 
his data to one agency to progress his claim. And it said it didnt share  consumers personal  
data with unapproved third parties.
Mr T was unhappy with this response  and raised his concern with the ICO. This then 
prompted a further,  and fuller, response from NFU.  It explained  that its internal Data  
Protection Team  had investigated  the matter. It also explained that it had also passed Mr Ts 
details to two other agencies in connection with his claim. 
Ive seen from NFUs file that its Data Protection Team investigated Mr Ts concern but 
couldnt identify  a breach. It said this included the agencies it used in progressing  his claim. 
So I think NFU took Mr Ts concern seriously and investigated  the matter  as far as it was 
able to. 
Our adjudicator explained that Mr Ts details could be obtained from shared databases 
where accident details are recorded.  I understand they could also be obtained from online 
databases if these  were used to look for quotes for new policies. NFU cant  control who has 
access to these databases. 
Ref: DRN07429192So, like the adjudicator, I cant say how the caller obtained Mr Ts details. But I havent seen 
any evidence that NFU passed  on his details to unapproved agencies. So I cant say it did 
anything wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0742919