K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains about issues shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance  from 
Vauxhall Finance  plc.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mrs Ms complaint  and to 
require Vauxhall  Finance  to allow Mrs M to reject  the car. I invited Mrs M and Vauxhall  
Finance to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to make  before I 
finally determined the matter.
Mrs M disagreed with some of the comments I made in my provisional decision.  Amongst 
other things,  she said her ability to use the car had been affected  as a result  of random lights 
flashing. She also said shed had to return the car to the garage six times and felt that this 
mileage should  be disregarded for the purposes  of the fair use deduction. Ive taken  account  
of all of the points made by Mrs M in response  to my provisional decision to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
Vauxhall Finance  didnt  respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the faults with the car caused  Mrs M to lose confidence in it and I accept 
that random lights  flashing would have  been  distracting. But Im still not persuaded that the 
faults affected Mrs Ms ability to use the car to get from A to B.
I accept the point which Mrs M has made about the mileage  she covered each time she 
returned the car to the garage for repairs. So Ive deducted six journeys of 150 miles each 
(900 miles  total) from the total mileage covered by the car since the point of supply. I also 
accept that the mileage  covered by the garage  when they abandoned their attempt to return 
the car to Mrs M due to further  faults  should  be deducted. This is 300 miles. So in total I am 
deducting 1200 miles from the total mileage covered by the car since the point of supply for 
the purposes of calculating  fair use.
I still think its reasonable for Vauxhall Finance to deduct an amount for fair use from the total 
repayments made before refunding any balance to Mrs M. The fair use should be calculated  
by multiplying the number of miles covered  (11,589  less the disallowed miles Ive mentioned  
above of 1200 = 10,389) by 25 pence, which equates to a deduction for fair use of 
£2,597.25.
In every other respect  my provisional decision remains  unchanged.
Ref: DRN05851502my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  the complaint. I require Vauxhall Finance plc to:
Allow Mrs M to reject the car
Unwind the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Mrs M to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mrs M.
Refund the deposit together  with simple interest of 8% per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund the monthly payments (calculated net of the fair use charge of £2,597.25) 
together with simple  interest of 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay £150 compensation for inconvenience  and loss of enjoyment
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0585150