K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Salvation Army  General Insurance Corporation  Ltd (SAGIC) 
declined his commercial  property insurance  claim  for theft and voided (cancelled  from the 
start) his policy. 
background
In early November 2018 Mr M rented a commercial storage unit on a farm. He intended to 
store his business  stock there.  On 16 November 2018 Mr M took delivery of stock at the unit. 
On 18 November 2018 the farmer noticed that thered been a theft from the unit. On 19 
November 2018,  Mr M noted only a few items  had been stolen, secured the door with a 
padlock and took out commercial contents insurance with SAGIC via a broker.  During the 
sale Mr M was asked  to accept some policy assumptions. One of these said:
The location  is a purpose built storage  facility  with CCTV, fire alarms, has a secure 
reception area and staff on premises at all times  when the facility is open (shipping 
containers/wooden crates  are excluded).
On 20 November 2018 Mr M noticed  thered  been a further theft. The farmer  put a tractor in 
front of the doors to prevent anything  else being taken but Mr M cancelled the lease anyway 
and moved his stock  to another site. He made a claim to SAGIC  for the stock stolen on the 
night of 19/20 November (which he valued  in the region of £5,700).
SAGIC appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. The loss adjuster asked Mr M why the 
first theft hadnt been disclosed when taking out the policy. He also queried whether Mr M 
had correctly presented  the risk he was asking  SAGIC  to insure because he didnt  think the 
level of security met that required by the policy assumption. He said there were no CCTV 
cameras and the facility wasnt manned  at all times. SAGIC said that if itd known the true 
nature of the risk it was being asked to insure  it wouldnt have provided Mr M with cover.  
SAGIC said it was unable  to cover Mr Ms claim and was cancelling  his policy  back to the 
start date and returning his premiums. 
Mr M complained to SAGIC about its decision.  He said SAGICs  decision was based on the 
loss adjusters flawed  and inaccurate  investigation.  He said he wasnt willing to accept a 
partial refund of his premiums. He also said hed been miss-sold  his policy and which had 
inadvertently left him exposed to the theft.  He said he took reasonable care when answering 
the questions  he was asked at the point of sale.
SAGIC looked  into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think itd done anything  wrong. It said again 
that the premises hed asked it to insure werent  a purpose built storage facility (as required 
by the assumption). It said it only offers cover for contents that are kept within a purpose  
built storage facility. It said if itd known  this wasnt the case  here it wouldnt have  offered  to 
insure him. It said this was the reason it was declining his claim and voiding the policy.  
Unhappy with the outcome of SAGICs investigation, Mr M complained  to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt  think  SAGIC had treated him unfairly so 
he didnt think it should be upheld.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN08675422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M, I dont think his complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr M has made two complaints. One relates  to the sale of the policy, which  he said was 
miss-sold to him, and the second relates  to the decision to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy. I cant look at the first complaint here. Thats  because SAGIC  didnt  sell Mr M the 
policy. He bought it through an online broker. Any complaint Mr M has about how the policy 
was sold needs  to be made to the broker. Im only able to look here at the aspects of Mr Ms 
complaint that relate to SAGICs  decision  to decline the claim and void the policy.  
Strictly speaking the policy  Mr M took out was a commercial one. However,  I appreciate he 
is a sole trader and, has said himself,  that he is an unsophisticated buyer  of insurance, so Ill 
treat him, for the purposes of this complaint, as if he was an ordinary consumer. 
When a consumer buys an insurance policy, theyll be asked  various questions  about 
themselves and what they want to insure and/or to confirm  information the insurer  has 
assumed is correct. The insurer uses the answers  to these questions and information 
provided to weigh up the risk of insuring the consumers property. In simple terms the insurer 
is trying  to assess how likely it is that the consumer  will make a claim. The insurer relies on 
the answers and information that is given  being  accurate. It can be a misrepresentation if an 
answer given is inaccurate or misleadingly  incomplete.
Although it didnt arrange the sale, SAGIC was still required to provide Mr M with clear, fair 
and non-misleading  information in order that he could make an informed decision. As part of 
that process,  Mr M was asked to accept 5 key policy assumptions as a condition of the cover 
SAGIC was to provide.  Ive seen the assumptions  and think they are clearly written  and were  
clearly highlighted  to Mr M. The one most relevant  to Mr M was the one Ive quoted in the 
background section  above. I can see from the sales process that Mr M had to tick a box to 
agree to the assumptions before he could proceed with taking the policy out so I think he 
wouldve been reasonably aware  that he needed  to meet this condition. This means  I think 
SAGIC provided Mr M with clear,  fair and non-misleading information at the point of sale 
about what it required. 
Mr M agreed  that the contents  he was asking  SAGIC  to insure were at:
-a purpose built storage facility, which
-had CCTV and fire alarms;
-had a secure reception area;  
-had staff on the premises at all time it was open.
And SAGIC agreed to provide  Mr M with cover on the basis that these requirements had 
been met. 
Ive seen the loss adjusters report, a site map and photographs of the facility. I cant  ignore  
that this evidence shows that the storage Mr M was renting  wasnt a purpose  built storage 
facility. And it had no CCTV, fire alarm  or secure  reception area either  (although there was a 
camera on the farm entrance but that  according  to Mr M  wasnt  anywhere near the 
storage unit). This means I dont think Mr Ms fairly represented to SAGIC the risk he was 
asking it to take on because the unit didnt meet the criteria  set out in the assumption.  
Ref: DRN08675423When taking out insurance, prospective  policy holders are under a duty to fairly represent  to 
the insurer the risk they are asking it to insure. If the insurer subsequently discovers the risk 
wasnt fairly represented, and was material to the cover offered, it can consider the contract 
to be void if it can show it wouldnt have taken  the risk on in the first place. Ive seen 
evidence from SAGIC  that shows it wouldve declined to insure Mr Ms contents at the unit if 
itd known that it didnt meet the criteria  set out in the assumption.  I also note it says it has 
returned Mr Ms premium in full. Mr M says he only received a partial refund but it is unclear 
to me whether perhaps the broker retained  some  of what Mr M paid against its fees and 
charges.  
But for the reasons given I dont think that SAGIC has treated Mr M unfairly by declining  his 
claim, voiding his policy  and returning  his premiums.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M accept  or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0867542