K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that The Royal  London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
will not pay him the value  of the policy guarantee on transfer to another product or provider. 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that the investigator  has fundamentally mis-understood  what  has happened with 
Royal London and clearly doesnt understand the product and how it works. However, I dont 
agree that this is the case.
Pension products  and the terminology involved can be difficult  to understand. Mr H says that 
he has already purchased  an annuity  when the plan was setup but this is not the case. The 
term guaranteed  basic annuity used in documentation that Mr H has received, does not 
mean he has already  purchased a guaranteed  annuity. 
What he purchased was called  a deferred  annuity  contract,  which  was the forerunner to the 
personal pension.  The policy  is designed  to take contributions which will provide a basic  (or 
minimum) pension  amount (on retirement) that correlates to the contributions  paid, 
essentially acting as a failsafe against falling  returns. The fund is also invested  within  the 
With-Profits fund, this has bonuses applied to it that are added  to the basic  pension  to 
increase the value of the fund. But ultimately it retains a fund value that can be used  to do a 
number of things  under current  legislation, like the personal pension.  One of these options is 
to buy an annuity  at a date chosen  by the customer.  But it also can be transferred  to other 
products and providers  or benefits  can be taken  on the open  market option.
What seems to be misunderstood  is how the guarantee Mr H has attached  to the plan works.  
Mr H wants to take the value of the guarantee to other providers/products, to invest  or 
purchase benefits with them. However, Royal London has explained the guarantee he has 
under this policy does  not allow for this. And the policy terms back this up. Furthermore, this 
is a common theme  with most pension products encompassing personal pensions and 
employer pension schemes  guarantees attached to that product are lost on transfer.
The guarantee attached  at outset to this plan is at retirement if a customer  chooses to take 
an annuity with at the time Refuge  (now Royal London). A calculation  will be run to give the 
customer the most advantageous of two methods of calculating the annuity  applicable  on the 
plan. Due to falling interest rates and annuity rates over the past 30 years or so, the method 
using the providers guaranteed annuity rates (so not subject to the these  falling rates)  is 
invariably going  to provide a much larger annuity.
We can see from the information provided  by Royal London that to provide Mr H with this 
guarantee it would  cost them approximately  £47,000. Whereas the actual value of his fund 
was much less at approximately £26,000.
Ref: DRN06486282What has complicated matters in terms of ease of understanding this, is that Royal London  
no longer provide annuities. If it still did, Mr H would likely be unaware of the cost (the 
£47,000 figure) of providing his guaranteed  annuity as it wouldve been  immaterial as this 
isnt a value he can do anything with. Royal London  wouldve  just provided him with a 
quotation of the annuity  available  with them, or the value he could transfer  elsewhere  which  
is the £26,000 which represents  the actual value of his fund.  This is initially  what Mr H was 
working on to make  his decisions  regarding this fund  it was only when he saw the value 
required to be sent to the annuity partner that matters have complicated.
Royal London (as other providers that have  withdrawn  from the annuity  market have also 
done) have arranged with selected other providers to administer and pay their annuities for 
them. Essentially outsourcing  their own annuities. But in this case  the value of Mr Hs policy  
doesnt cover the cost of providing  the annuity,  due to the guaranteed  annuity rate making it 
more expensive to provide.  So Royal London will have to pay the shortfall to the selected 
annuity partner  firm to cover this cost.  So that for all intents and purposes despite Royal 
London no longer providing  annuities, it can still provide annuities to its customers as it 
agreed to do at outset.
So Royal London  will meet  the guarantee under Mr Hs policy  if he chooses to take an 
annuity with it. However, if Mr H doesnt want to take an annuity  and instead  wants to 
transfer his pension to another provider  or product he can. And he will get the value of his 
policy. But he wont be paid the value of the guarantee, because  this is only applicable when 
an annuity is selected under the original  policy  terms.  It is not part of the value of his plan 
and isnt transferred  to other providers. Because  in this scenario  Mr H wouldnt be taking an 
annuity with Royal London so the value of the guarantee is immaterial in this situation.
Mr H is unhappy that an enhanced value  is going to be paid to the outsourced  provider of 
the annuity chosen by Royal  London but not if he chooses his own provider or another  
product. But I dont agree that this is an enhanced  transfer value, its just the value of 
providing the annuity which has to be paid so that Mr H receives  the guarantee attached to 
his annuity. Its not designed as a transfer  value and only exists because  Royal  London now 
outsources its annuities.
Mr H has said he is being treated unfairly and has sent us evidence of other enhanced 
values being paid by Royal London to other  customers. However,  this is a different situation, 
these customers as a group  (presumably a separate book of business) were  offered the 
chance to forego their guaranteed annuities rates for an enhancement to their fund value. 
This wasnt at retirement but immediately applied to their policies,  so if taken up their plan 
values were increased but the option of the guaranteed annuity rate taken away. Essentially 
Royal London made an offer to these customers to buy their right to a guaranteed annuity  
rate off them. But it is under no obligation  to do this and this was a commercial decision. It 
doesnt have to offer this to Mr H and it doesnt  form part of his policy  conditions.  So I dont 
think Mr H is being treated unfairly or differently.
Mr H has also said that Royal London is being  unfair as it will cost them  the £47,000 
whatever he chooses  so it should  allow him to make a choice of a product suitable for him. 
But this is fundamentally misunderstanding the guarantee that he has. If he chooses  not to 
take an annuity with Royal London (now its outsourced annuity firms)  it wont  cost them  
£47,000 as it wont have to pay for the value  of the guaranteed annuity rate. Instead  it will 
need to pay the value  of the fund which  is the figure of approximately £26,000.
Ref: DRN06486283I recognise that this might  seem unfair to Mr H. But when this plan was drawn  up, I doubt it 
was ever considered  that the value  of the guaranteed annuity rate would outstrip the value of 
the plan by so much.  This situation  has made guaranteed annuity rates very expensive for 
providers to pay  and likely represents  quite a loss for the businesses who offered these. In 
hindsight and as we can see in todays pension market where expensive future guarantees 
are few and far between, these guarantees  wouldnt  have been written  into contracts so 
readily. 
An analogy might make  it easier  to understand. If Business A had paid a firm £20,000  to 
provide them  with 100 personal computers and this agreement was set in stone at outset. 
The firm eventually realises  the cost of making  these computers is £40,000 but it has 
entered into the agreement regardless of cost. It wouldnt be then fair for Business A to now 
say, I now dont want your computers, but you should pay me the £40,000 instead of the 
£20,000 originally  paid so I can buy them elsewhere  (or a newer model with the same firm). 
Obviously, this is quite  a simplified explanation,  but it broadly matches the situation here. Mr 
H within his policy has purchased a guarantee if he chooses to buy an annuity with Royal  
London. If chooses not to buy this from Royal London, the guarantee no longer applies, and 
he can have a return of fund or transfer value based on the actual value.
So it wouldnt be fair to say that Royal  London should provide Mr H with the value of the 
guarantee in circumstances where it would never have applied.  So it follows that I dont think 
Royal London has done anything wrong and I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0648628