K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  Shop  Direct) is charging interest  
on purchases she believes  she bought under a scheme that provides an interest free period.
background
Mrs B bought some items online using credit  provided by Shop Direct. She believes she 
bought them using a buy now pay later  (BNPL) option. Effectively that gave her a number 
of months to pay for the items and if she did so before  the BNPL period ran out she wouldnt 
be charged interest.
When Mrs B noticed interest  on her account  she complained to Shop Direct. It said she 
hadnt chosen the BNPL option, so her purchases showed as attracting interest  straight 
away. It said it wouldnt transfer the items onto the BNPL basis.
Unhappy about  this Mrs B contacted us. Our investigator looked  at the evidence provided by 
both parties and said he couldnt see anything  that showed Mrs B had selected  BNPL.  So he 
didnt think Shop Direct had done much  wrong.
Mrs B is unhappy about this, as she says she always uses  the BNPL option,  and that Shop 
Direct had made mistakes like this before and corrected them. Furthermore, shed recently  
received a default notice asking her to pay over £500 immediately, although she thought 
shed paid her account.  She thought the default  notice  might be connected to her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusions as our investigator did, for much the 
same reasons. I realise  this will be disappointing for Mrs B, so Id like to explain how I 
reached my conclusions.
I can see, from statements Shop Direct provided, that Mrs B did frequently use the BNPL 
option when she bought  items. So I understand why it was a shock to find interest being 
charged on some items she bought.
We asked Mrs B to tell us exactly  which items were affected, but she hasnt been able to be 
very specific. So Ive only looked at the ones mentioned in Shop Directs response  to her 
complaint. That was about  an online order placed  late on 11 October 2017 and processed 
the next day.
Shop Direct has sent us Mrs Bs online footprint  for her shop. This is a listing of all the keys 
etc. she pressed during the shop  and we know, having looked at many  of these before, that 
if Mrs B had selected BNPL it would have  shown on this footprint. It doesnt, so I must 
conclude that Mrs B didnt  follow her usual practise  of selecting BNPL. 
I appreciate that Mrs B says she always selects BNPL, but Im persuaded the footprint Ive 
seen is correct. Its been generated automatically  and I cant  see any reason to doubt its 
accuracy.
Ref: DRN05227802So I dont  think Shop Direct has done anything wrong when it started to charge interest on 
the items  and show that on Mrs Bs next statement. So I cant  ask it to cancel the interest.
Mrs B told us Shop Direct had made this sort of mistake before and transferred items onto 
BNPL when she contacted them. Ive only seen one occasion where this happened,  and it 
was when Mrs B ordered items over the phone, not online. So I cant say this was the sort of 
mistake Shop Direct  made  frequently,  especially  for online purchases.
Mrs B told us, after our investigator sent her his thoughts on her complaint, that shed 
received a default notice from Shop Direct,  and that she was required to pay over £500 to 
avoid further consequences. We asked Shop Direct  for an explanation of how it reached the 
figures it provided in the demand  for payment but it hasnt provided any detail.
I dont think it appropriate for me to challenge  Shop  Direct about how its calculated the 
figure Mrs B owes, although I must say the statements Ive seen arent very helpful.  But as 
Mrs B hasnt been able to tell us in detail  which  items in particular were  affected by not using 
BNPL to buy them (other than the items  she ordered in October 2017) I cant say the 
calculations are unfair. Mrs B can of course challenge the amount if she has evidence  that 
shes already paid off her account, but she will need  to do that directly  with Shop Direct in 
the first instance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0522780