K820x#14complaint
Mrs W and her representative complain that she couldnt transfer  money from her 
Nationwide Building  Society current account to another bank because of its security 
measures. 
background
Mrs W wanted to transfer some money  to another bank. When trying to do so online 
Nationwide asked her to use her debit  card and card reader to authorise the transaction.  But 
she had no card available. And Nationwide couldnt complete the transfer when she phoned. 
There was a delay  in the transfer being  made and Mrs W says she lost out on the 
opportunity to invest the money elsewhere at a higher rate of interest. Mrs W and her 
representative are unhappy with the way shes been dealt with. 
Nationwide said in its final response that when  Mrs W requested the transfer online on 
6 February 2019  its security process  required her to confirm its validity by using her debit  
card and card reader. This is an additional level of security when making some online 
transactions. Its a random process  less commonly used if the card and reader have recently 
been used to confirm previous transactions or when logging in. It prevents fraud and is for 
the customers protection. As Mrs Ws account  is an online service its reasonable to expect 
her to have  access to her debit card
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The accounts terms and conditions say Nationwide may need to identify customers 
when making account withdrawals. And as the account Mrs W was making the 
transfer from was an online account and the transfer was to an external account it 
couldnt be completed over the phone.
Nationwide acted  in line with the account  terms and conditions  by asking for 
additional security  and it didnt act unfairly by not transferring the money over the 
phone. It hasnt done anything wrong and she cant ask it to do more. 
Although it was inconvenient for Mrs W not to be able to make  the transfer, banks are 
obliged to have  security processes in place. We arent a regulator  and cant  tell 
Nationwide to change  its security processes.
Mrs Ws representative doesnt  agree and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says 
they were given incorrect information about being  able to carry out the transfer in one go at a 
branch. The whole experience has been stressful, frustrating and costly  in time terms. 
Theres also a loss of interest by not being able to deposit the money into a new fixed rate 
bond. As theyre  long standing customers hes asked if Nationwide would make a goodwill 
gesture of £50 compensation.  
Nationwide has declined to do so saying that although it recognises they have been 
members for many years,  it hasnt made a mistake.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05227942Nationwide has said that its security system will sometimes randomly ask a customer to use 
the accounts debit card and reader so that it can verify a transaction  is genuine.  I think thats 
fair and reasonable. 
Its important that businesses like Nationwide have processes and procedures  in place to try 
and identify transactions that arent genuine.  Its in the nature of processes like these that 
genuine customers may be inconvenienced  by them, but thats not to say that Nationwide 
shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt have followed them as it did here.
In asking Mrs W to use her debit card and reader  Nationwide was also acting in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions. Its unfortunate if Mrs W didnt have her debit card available  
at the time. But thats not Nationwides  fault.  It was also made clear that as this was an 
online account transfers couldnt  be concluded  on the phone.
It appears the information given to Mrs W and her representative about what a branch could 
do may not have been entirely  correct.  But as Mrs W didnt subsequently act upon this 
advice or go into the branch, I dont think this is something I can reasonably ask Nationwide  
to compensate her for.
Mrs Ws representative has asked Nationwide to pay £50 as a goodwill gesture. Its declined  
to do so as it says it hasnt made a mistake.
I recognise that this matter has caused  Mrs W some distress and inconvenience.  And its 
suggested some financial  loss. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest Nationwide  has made a 
mistake. And all consumers spend  some time and experience some additional 
inconvenience in dealing  with a complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally 
recommend theyre  compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart 
from this approach in this case.
Overall although  I recognise  Mrs W and her representatives strength of feeling and 
frustration, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Nationwide to pay her £50, or any, 
compensation as her representative would like. 
Furthermore this service isnt a regulator  and we cant require a business  to change  its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0522794