K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) unfairly blocked his account  and 
provided poor customer service. To put things right, Mr B wants compensation in the region 
of £1,000. 
Mr B is represented by a third party, S.
background
Santander blocked Mr Bs account on 25 September 2018. It wrote to him on the same day, 
saying it had tried to contact him several times  to request information it needed to meet its 
legal and regulatory obligations. And that it had blocked Mr Bs account  because  he had not 
replied.
Mr B had been in hospital when Santander  were  writing to him, so he didnt receive the 
letters. When Mr B went  into his local branch to get the block removed, he says the staff 
were rude to him and wouldnt help him. He says he was given a phone number to call, but 
that it turned out to be the wrong number.  And that he had been incorrectly  told by 
Santander that there was no block on his account, when  he called them to discuss what  was 
happening with his account.
Santander wrote to Mr B on 4 and 10 October 2018,  clarifying the position. It apologised for 
telling him his account wasnt  blocked  and for the branch  giving him the wrong number, and 
paid him a total of £70 in compensation. It also enclosed a form Mr B would need to 
complete, to have the block to be lifted.
Mr B completed the form and returned it to Santander. Six days later,  Santander removed 
the block. And four days after that, it contacted Mr B, seeking further information, this time 
about his pension and other credits into his account.
On 2 November  2018, S called Santander on behalf  of Mr B. She complained that Santander  
was harassing Mr B by unfairly restricting his account, and insisting  on speaking to him to go 
through security  questions twice when S had told Santander he was in hospital, recovering 
from a heart  attack.
Santander wrote to Mr B again on 19 November 2018. It explained that it has to complete 
security checks  when  speaking to someone  on behalf  of the account holder. And that it had 
sought information from Mr B to enable it to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr B didnt accept Santanders  response, so he brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator explained that Santander  was entitled to block  Mr Bs account, and seek  further  
information. But she thought Santanders  service fell short of the expected standards.  She 
asked Santander  to pay Mr B another £50, taking the total to £120.
Mr B didnt agree, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mr Bs complaint, I have 
decided to uphold  it in part for the following reasons.
Ref: DRN07552272account block and information request
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need  to restrict customers 
accounts and seek information about the money  going in and out of those accounts.
The timing  of Santanders requests to Mr B was unfortunate.  Mr B was in hospital with a 
serious health problem and I understand  why he found his experience with Santander 
stressful. But in order to make an award against Santander, I would have to say I think it 
acted unfairly. 
And, having reviewed  all of the information  Ive been provided by both parties, Im satisfied 
Santander acted  in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Bs 
account, and sought information  from him. And that it was entitled to do so under the 
account terms and conditions that govern the relationship between Santander and Mr B. So I 
cant say it acted unfairly.
Mr B does say he didnt receive the letters Santander says it sent,  asking him for information 
and warning him it would  block  his account if he didnt reply.  Santander has provided us with 
copies of the letters it says it sent,  and I can see they were  all addressed  correctly,  to the 
address Mr B had given  it. I can also see that he did receive other  letters Santander sent to 
the same  address.
It might be that Mr B didnt receive the letters because  he was in hospital at the time. But on 
balance, I think its more  likely than not that Santander did send Mr B the warning  letters it 
says it sent. And I cant reasonably hold it responsible  for any postal issues caused  after it 
had sent the letters.
Also, Santander didnt  know Mr B was in hospital  at the time and, because Mr B didnt reply 
to its letter,  I think it acted  reasonably in blocking  Mr Bs account. So I do not uphold  this part 
of Mr Bs complaint.
customer service
I can see that Mr B was given contradictory or incorrect information along the way. 
Santander has accepted it told him his account  wasnt blocked, when in fact it was. And that 
Mr B was given the wrong number when he went in branch. I recognise those incidents 
would have caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience, but I think the £70 in 
compensation Santander has offered is enough to put things right.
Mr B is also unhappy that he was asked to complete security twice  on the same call. Our 
investigator thought  that this was unnecessary on this particular call and suggested 
Santander should pay a further  £50 in compensation. Santander accepted  our investigators 
comments and agreed to pay the additional compensation.
Because the business has agreed to our investigators suggestion, I only need  to consider if 
a payment of £50 is sufficient. And, as this was only one incident, my view is that a further 
payment of £50 is enough to put things right.
Mr B has said that the stress of this situation  caused  him to break his tooth. But, in light of 
what Ive said above, Im only saying Santander  should compensate Mr B for some  elements 
Ref: DRN07552273of its customer  service  and not the overall  situation.  I havent seen any medical evidence to 
support Mr Bs claim  that Santander  caused  him to break his tooth, and I dont think  I can 
reasonably ask Santander to compensate Mr B for this, in view of my findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that Santander  should  pay Mr B £50 
in recognition of its poor customer service, in addition to the £70 it has already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020 
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0755227