K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Experian Limited used and shared her data without her permission and 
due to technical problems hasnt provided  the service she wanted.
background
In April 2018 Mrs D opened an account with Experian on a free trial basis. There was a 
technical problem  and Mrs D couldnt access the information she was seeking.  The account 
was closed shortly afterwards and a couple of months later Mrs Ds application for a credit  
card account  was declined by a bank I will call S. It suggested she check with Experian.
Mrs D asked Experian what  information  it held about  her and what was shared with S. She 
also wanted to know how it could provide those details since she hadnt had the service for 
which she paid. Experian sent Mr D a paper copy of her credit  report  and offered her £25 
compensation. It said that it held data in accordance with the relevant rules and would have 
shared it with S which  would have obtained  Mrs Ds permission first.
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said that the Information  
Commissioners Office  (ICO) sets out the information that credit  reference agencies (CRAs) 
can collect and hold for consumers. This is done  on the basis  of legitimate interests  so that 
information can be provided about a persons credit status in a regulated manner. She said it 
explained that the: Data Protection Act (DPA) doesnt require the CRAs to have your 
consent before they are allowed to process  your personal data as long as they have 
legitimate reason for doing so.
She said that before making  a credit card application, Mrs D wouldve been asked by the 
lender whether she consented to them running  a credit check. Therefore she couldnt say 
that Experian has done anything wrong.
She noted the technical issues Mrs D had encountered and said that these prevented her 
from using the credit  card comparison  tool, but she still would have been able to access  her 
credit score. Experian  had paid her £25 and sent her a paper  copy  of her credit report. The 
investigator thought  this fair 
She added that as Experian holds the information  on Mrs D for legitimate business reasons 
it wont delete it. She said that if Mrs D would  like to review all the information Experian  holds  
on her she could make a full data subject access request.
Mrs D didnt agree and said Experian  had collected  data on her in exchange  for a service 
which it hadnt provided. She wondered  what data Experian would have provided S if she 
had not signed up for an account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fear there may be a misunderstanding about how CRAs work. They  collect  financial and 
other relevant data about individuals which they share with financial institutions. This is done 
in accordance with the law and the rules  which govern the collection and holding  of data. It 
Ref: DRN07899162does so whether  or not a person accesses their credit file or not. As the investigator  has 
explained when  Mrs D applied  for a credit  card account she will have  given S permission to 
obtain information about her credit status from a CRA.
It was a coincidence that Mrs D used Experian shortly before she made the credit  card 
application. S could  easily  have used  another CRA  which  would also have held much the 
same information about Mrs D. Her application  for an account with Experian had no bearing  
on the information S holds about her. Experian  collects information from a wide variety  of 
sources and this allows it to share that with those businesses which  have a legitimate 
interest and who are authorised to access it. 
As for the technical  issue  I gather that Experian hasnt as yet paid her the £25 compensation 
it offered.  Mrs D didnt pay for the service and therefore there are no grounds to ask 
Experian to make a refund.
my final decision
Experian Limited has already made  an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Experian should  pay £25. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs D to accept or reject  
my decision  before 15 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0789916