K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Hargreaves Lansdown  Advisory Services  Limited (Hargreaves 
Lansdown) will not allow him to sell unlisted  shares  in his Self Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). It says that it can only allow a sale if fair value for the transaction  has been 
established as required by Her Majestys  Revenue and Customs  (HMRC).  But as the 
shares are unlisted establishing fair value  is problematic. Mr L disagrees  and says it should 
be possible  to sell the shares on a matched bargain  basis.
background
Mr L has a SIPP with Hargreaves Lansdown.  In 2013, shares in a particular company were 
delisted having previously been  listed on AIM when Mr L first invested  in the shares.
Mr L now wishes to sell these shares. But Hargreaves Lansdown is concerned  that as there 
is no open  market it cannot be certain  that the price  at which  the shares might be bought 
out of Mr Ls SIPP will meet HMRC requirements for the price to be at fair value and that 
the transaction is being conducted at arms length. 
It is concerned that if it falls foul of HMRC rules,  an unauthorised payment charge might  be 
imposed by HMRC.
Mr L initially said that the shares could be sold on a matched bargain basis  through  another 
trading company (trader). But it now transpires that can only be done if a Hargreaves 
Lansdown employee takes personal responsibility for the transaction  meeting HMRC 
requirements. 
Hargreaves Lansdown is unwilling to facilitate  this. Instead, it has suggested Mr L 
commissions an independent  valuation of the shares concerned or, alternatively, transfers 
his SIPP  to another provider who will allow the sale to proceed.  
Mr L has declined both options as either would involve him incurring costs which he says are 
disproportionate to the value of the shares in question.
Mr L complained to this service that Hargreaves Lansdown was being obstructive. He says it 
is its internal rules that are preventing the sale. He says Hargreaves Lansdown have 
changed its rules without telling him and has thus denied  him the opportunity  to realise  the 
value of his shares.
Our adjudicator concluded that Hargreaves Lansdown was not at fault.  She said HMRC  
requires it to certify that transactions  such as that which Mr L wishes to proceed with reflect 
fair value  and that the transaction properly reflected the value  of the asset  being  disposed of.
Mr L did not agree. He reiterated that he was being treated unfairly by Hargreaves 
Lansdown which was being unnecessarily obstructive.
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03958482Mr L has made substantial submissions in support of his complaint. I am grateful for these. 
His submissions clearly  set out the difficult situation he faces and I understand his frustration 
that he is unable  to crystallise the value of a particular  investment held in his SIPP.
But I hope Mr L will understand that it is not my intention to address every point he has 
raised. My decision only addresses  those  points I consider relevant to the position  of 
Hargreaves Lansdown and whether  its reasons for refusing to complete  Mr Ls sale 
instructions are valid.
In response to our adjudicator, Mr L raised  a number of issues.  In particular, his submissions 
of 5th and 7th December 2018 set out why Mr L feels Hargreaves Lansdown should facilitate 
his share  sale. Mr L also made  a number of more general points about pensions  and 
Hargreave Lansdowns obligation to him as its client. 
Whilst I have considered all these points, in my view none directly address the fundamental 
issue underlying  Mr Ls complaint.  
The crux of this matter  is about Hargreaves Lansdowns insistence that fair value is 
established for the share sale to proceed.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr L. But I agree with both our adjudicator and Hargreaves 
Lansdown that HMRC  require  Hargreaves Lansdown to be satisfied that the shares are 
being sold at fair value.  Hargreaves  Lansdown has no discretion in the matter.  It is not, as 
Mr L has said, a case of Hargreaves  Lansdown being obstructive or failing to exercise 
discretion or amending its own rules  in order to prevent the sale.
As has been explained to Mr L, HMRC imposes  this requirement on SIPP  providers in order 
to prevent assets  (whether shares, property  or other assets)  being transferred outwith the 
tax beneficial wrapper  of a SIPP without the relevant tax being paid on the transferred  assets  
fair value.  
In the same  way that income taken from a SIPP is taxed (after any relevant allowances are 
accounted for) so it is the case  with other assets transferred outside  the SIPP. Without 
establishing fair value HMRC  is concerned  that tax that should be paid is otherwise 
avoided. Hence the obligation it places  on SIPP  providers to ensure this does not happen by 
imposing the fair value requirement.
In his submission of 6th June 2018, Mr L said:
I would  also like to highlight to you that they advertise and encourage, through 
advertisements, clients to
trade in xxxx (my deletion) products. These said xxxx products are heavily invested  in 
shares that are
"delisted". Is this a double standard?
I think Mr L misunderstands  this particular issue. Mr L is directly invested,  through  his SIPP 
in an unlisted  share.  The xxxx products to which he refers have underlying investments in 
unlisted or delisted shares. It is therefore  the wrapper or jacket that can be traded and not 
the underlying  assets held within the jacket  or wrapper. So I do not agree that double  
standards are being applied  by Hargreaves Lansdown.
Ref: DRN03958483I appreciate that Mr L says the sale of his shares  could be achieved by an employee of 
Hargreaves Lansdown taking personal responsibility for the transaction  given  that his trader  
no longer offers a matched bargain facility  to institutions such as Hargreaves Lansdown.
In his submission of 5th December 2018, Mr L said of this proposed course  of action:
From my understanding  it appears  straight  forward.  HL to provide  (trader)  with a 
named  person and authorisation  that  HL trust  them   to perform  the transaction  on my 
behalf. That named  person to do the sale on my behalf   via (trader).  (Trader)  to 
transfer  the funds from the sale to HL. HL to put the funds into my SIPP account.  All 
appears very straight  forward  and reasonable  to me, would  you not agree??
I do not agree this would  be a reasonable course of action for Hargreaves Lansdown  to 
endorse. The only circumstance in which I could  envisage  such  an arrangement  is if 
Hargreaves Lansdown directed an employee  to take personal responsibility. 
In my view, given the risks involved for the employee (how  would  the employee know fair 
value had been paid for the shares?) this would anyway be an abuse of a responsible 
employers obligations  to its employees.  It cannot  be reasonable for a responsible  employer 
to direct one of its employees to take on the obligations rightly  the responsibility  of the 
employer.
Apart from this and all other such considerations apart, this course of action would still not 
address the fundamental  issue  that such transactions must be at fair value.
I therefore understand why Hargreaves Lansdown  has reasonably declined to go down this 
route.
I have noted that Mr L says he also held the same  companys shares with another  provider 
and that he sold those shares without difficulty. Consequently, Mr L says Hargreaves 
Lansdown should do the same. 
I do not agree. I do not know whether the shares  with another  provider were  held in a 
pension wrapper such as a SIPP. If not, then different, less onerous restrictions  would have 
applied in selling the shares. 
But notwithstanding that, the circumstances  under  which the other  provider sold the shares 
are a matter  for it. It is not fair or reasonable that Hargreaves Lansdown should be bound by 
the actions of another provider.
Nor do I accept Mr Ls assertion that Hargreaves Lansdown has changed its dealing rules 
since the shares were  delisted in 2013. Rather, it is Mr Ls preferred trader  that has changed 
its rules.  In 2013, it offered a dealing facility  to Hargreaves  Lansdown  for the shares in 
question. 
I understand though that it no longer offers this facility. I cannot see why Hargreaves 
Lansdown should therefore  be held to account  for another business, over which  it has no 
control, changing its rules.
I appreciate this all leaves Mr L in an unsatisfactory position. He remains invested  in illiquid 
shares which if he is to sell he must first establish that he is doing  so at fair value. Given 
Ref: DRN03958484there is no open market,  it is more  likely  than not that this would require him to commission  
an independent valuation, meeting the criteria for such as set out on HMRCs website. 
But this would be disproportionately expensive when compared to the apparently modest 
value Mr L says the shares  are worth.
So I accept  that there  is something of an impasse  between Mr L and Hargreaves Lansdown. 
But given that I will not direct Hargreaves Lansdown to avoid or ignore its regulatory  
obligation to satisfy itself that fair value  has been  achieved if the sale is to proceed, Mr Ls 
options are somewhat constrained.
I have noted that on the website of the companys shares in question, there is a facility for 
shareholders to see the prices at which the most recent transactions in the companys 
shares have completed. I do not know those  prices or the date and details of any such 
transactions. 
I am aware  that some  contact has been  made  between the company,  Mr L and his preferred 
trader. If not already discussed and discounted  during these  exchanges, it might  be worth Mr 
L asking for such details  and then providing either Hargreaves Lansdown  and/or HMRC with 
such to see if fair value can be established  to the satisfaction of Hargreaves Lansdown 
and/or HMRC that way.  
But I cannot anticipate  how likely  that is to succeed in resolving  this difficult situation.
For the reasons  set out above, I do not find Hargreaves Lansdown at fault for refusing to 
sanction the transaction Mr L wishes to complete. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.                            .
                       
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0395848