K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has made transfers from her account which werent 
in accordance with her instructions.
Background
On 5 October 2018, Mrs M says she contacted Lloyds  to transfer £20,000  from her current  
account to her savings  account. And on the next day, she says she asked Lloyds to transfer 
the funds back  into her current Account. But Mrs M complains that this didnt happen.
Mrs M also says on 5 October 2018, a sum of £30,000 was transferred to her savings 
account but this wasnt  an instruction made by her. Mrs M initially went  into a branch  to try 
and resolve matters. But subsequently  she raised a formal  complaint with Lloyds.
Lloyds said it looked at the transaction  history on Mrs Ms accounts and listened to the calls 
she had made. But it found that the transactions on Mrs Ms account matched the 
instructions she had given during the calls. So, it didnt think  it had done  anything wrong in 
this respect. But it accepted that Mrs M hadnt  received the level of service  she was entitled 
to expect when  she raised  this issue  in branch. So, it paid her £109  to cover her costs and 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Mrs M didnt  accept what Lloyds said and she referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, the 
investigator also found that Lloyds had acted in line with what Mrs M had asked  it to do. She 
acknowledged that Mrs M had to visit a branch on two occasions and that the branch staff 
couldnt fully answer  the concerns shed raised. But she felt the compensation offered by 
Lloyds, to recognise the inconvenience of visiting the branch, was fair.
Mrs M didnt  accept our investigators outcome  she feels that the figures  on her statements 
are still incorrect.  So, the complaint  has been passed to me to issue  a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has made a number of comments, which I have taken on board. And shes made her 
strength of feeling  about this matter  very clear.  So, I hope the fact that I havent commented 
on everything thats been said not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution  service, our role is to reach a fair and reasonable answer 
as informally as possible. So, its not necessary for me to respond to every  point  made, but 
to concentrate on the crux of the complaint. And the crux of the issue here is whether  Lloyds  
acted in line with Mrs Ms instructions and whether there are any discrepancies within  her 
statements. Ive thought about  all this very carefully  and have  set out my findings  below.
Mrs M says she asked  Lloyds to transfer £20,000 from her current account to her savings 
account. 
Ref: DRN09405732But having  listened to the call that took place  on 5 October 2018,  Im satisfied that Mrs M 
asked Lloyds to transfer £20,000  from her savings account to her current account . And from 
looking at the account statements, Im satisfied  that the transactions match those  
instructions.
Mrs M says she then contacted Lloyds  on the following day  6 October 2018, to transfer  the 
funds back. But Lloyds say Mrs M called it twice  on 5 October 2018. And it says Mrs M 
asked it to transfer £30,000 from her current account to her savings  account.
I acknowledge that Mrs M says she didnt ask Lloyds to make  this transfer. But Lloyds has 
been able to provide a recording of this call too. Having  listened to this call, Im satisfied    
Mrs M did authorise a £30,000  transfer from her current account to her savings account  
and this also matches the transactions  on her statements. 
 
Mr M says it wouldnt have been possible to transfer the sum of £30,000 - as her account 
had insufficient  funds. And I can see why theres some confusion  here as Mrs Ms doesnt 
seem to have recalled the second  transfer she instructed on 5 October  2018.  But bearing in 
mind the transfers  that were made  as set out above, there  were  enough  funds in her 
current account for this transfer to take place. I appreciate Mrs M recalls things differently, 
but given the time that has passed, I think its most likely that Mrs M simply doesnt 
remember the details  of all the calls she made  and what was discussed.
Mrs M hasnt  disputed  requesting a transfer  on 6 October 2018. But she has queried a 
transfer on her statements dated 8 October 2018. So, I think  it would be helpful to explain 
that the 6 October 2018 fell on a Saturday,  and so the transfer she made  on this date 
wouldnt have gone through  until the next working  day  Monday 8 October  2018.  And this 
explains the narrative  on the statement alongside the transfer  which says 6OCTxxxx. Im 
satisfied this is the transfer  Mrs M authorised  on 6 October 2018.  
For completeness, I have also listened  to the recording of this call which Lloyds also 
provided. In this call, Im satisfied Mrs M asks for £20,000 to be transferred from the savings 
account to the current account. She also says last night because of a misunderstanding I 
transferred it over, which suggests to me that on 6 October 2018 Mrs M was aware that she 
had made  a transfer the previous day by mistake. In the call she also asks Lloyds to confirm 
the balance of the current account after the transfer and it confirmed the balance as 
£22,110.25. So, Im satisfied  that Mr M authorised this transaction and her statements reflect  
the instructions  she gave  and the balance that was confirmed during the call.    
Therefore, taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator. I dont think  Lloyds  
has done anything  wrong. It followed the instructions Mrs M gave it in the three calls she 
made to Lloyds and her statements  accurately  reflect those instructions. 
Lloyds has paid Mrs M £109 in recognition of the cost and inconvenience  she experienced 
when visiting the branch  with her concerns. I think this is fair. 
So, considering the above, I wont be asking it to take any further  action in respect  of this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN09405733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0940573