K820x#14Complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked access  to her current account whilst  
she was abroad.  
Background
In July 2018 Mrs K went on holiday after receiving treatment for some  serious  health  
problems. After Mrs Ks husband called Barclays  his current account and their joint account 
were blocked. Mrs K spoke with Barclays to see if she could  access  her sole named 
account. 
During the call, Mrs K explained that they were  abroad with limited funds and needed 
Barclays help. But there were problems completing the account verification process during 
the call and Barclays asked Mrs K to call back. 
On their return to the UK, a complaint was raised. Barclays didnt  initially  respond to Mrs Ks 
concerns about  her sole named current account access.
In January 2019 Mrs K called Barclays and asked  whether all her accounts  had been  
blocked. Barclays said all Mrs Ks accounts  had been blocked. 
In February 2019  Barclays issued a final response that said Mrs Ks sole named  accounts 
hadnt been blocked. Barclays  didnt  uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Barclays  agreed that there 
was a problem  when trying to access  her account  but said Mrs K was asked to call back and 
didnt. 
Our investigator looked at Mrs Ks complaint but didnt  uphold it. He listened  to Mrs Ks call 
with Barclays and accepted that the person she spoke with couldnt access  her account. But 
the investigator said Barclays asked Mrs K to call back  to check  whether it was possible to 
access her account. Barclays also provided  systems evidence to show Mrs Ks account 
wasnt blocked. Mrs K didnt accept the investigators view and said it wasnt  unreasonable  
to conclude that the reason she wasnt put through the security  process  was because her 
account was blocked. As Mrs K didnt accept,  her complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K is party to another case  relating  to her joint account. Please note that in this decision 
Im only going to talk about Mrs Ks sole named current  account access. 
Ill start by saying that I have also checked Barclays systems  evidence and cant find any 
evidence that Mrs Ks sole named account access was suspended. I know  Mrs Ks joint 
account was blocked but thats not the subject  of this case. The systems evidence shows 
there was no block in place while Mrs K was abroad. 
Ive listened to Mrs Ks call with Barclays in July 2018 and I can understand why shes so 
upset. But I have to take into account that the call handler specifically asked Mrs K to call 
back and attempt the account  verification process again either later that day or the following 
Ref: DRN03497952day. The call handler said her systems couldnt currently tell her what accounts were 
affected by the block and asked Mrs K to call back in order to check.  . 
In response to the investigator Mrs K has explained that because of the health  problems  she 
was experiencing she didnt feel able to keep going  back to Barclays. I understand Mrs Ks 
position but I think the person she spoke  to was telling the truth when she said she couldnt 
access her accounts but didnt know  why. Im sorry but I dont think Barclays  acted unfairly 
when it asked Mrs K to call back. 
In response to the investigator Mrs K says we should consider whether Barclays led her to 
believe her sole account was blocked. Ive thought  about that but Im not persuaded that it 
did. As Ive said above, Barclays  call handler said she couldnt say whether  Mrs Ks sole 
account was blocked. Thats why she asked  Mrs K to call back.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K 
but I think her call with Barclays was professionally handled and I havent  found she was told 
or it was implied that her sole account access had been blocked.
Mrs K called Barclays in January 2019 and asked  it to confirm whether  all her accounts had 
been blocked. Ive listened to the call and Barclays said all Mrs Ks accounts  were blocked. 
But that was a mistake  as there  was no sole account block in place. Whilst I agree Barclays 
gave incorrect information I have to take into account that the call occurred several months  
after Mrs Ks return to the UK. As a service, we dont fine or punish businesses  for making 
mistakes. We will tell businesses to pay compensation based on the impact  of an error on 
the consumer.  
I agree  that being given the wrong  answer was frustrating. But I havent been persuaded that 
the impact of the error  means Barclays should pay Mrs K compensation. The error was 
clarified in Barclays  final response dated  13 February 2019 which sets out the correct  
position. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K as I can see how strongly she feels  about  this complaint. But in 
this case Im only looking at whether Barclays suspended sole account access. Ive also 
considered whether Barclays led Mrs K to believe her sole account access  had been  
blocked. Having  considered everything Ive been  supplied, I havent found  anything to show  
Barclays made a mistake by blocking access to Mrs Ks sole accounts or that it misled her 
when she called from abroad. I agree  Barclays gave  some  incorrect information when Mrs K 
called in January  2019. But I dont think it would be fair to tell Barclays to pay compensation 
for that error.  As Im satisfied Barclays has dealt with Mrs Ks complaint fairly Im not telling it 
to take any further  action.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0349795