K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Cash on Go Limited  trading as Peachy.co.uk was irresponsible  to lend 
to him.
Mr B wants  Peachy to pay him compensation and amend  his credit file.
background
Mr B took out five loans with Peachy:
No. Date of loan Amount borrowed
Instalments Maximum monthly instalment
1 19/08/2014 £100 2 £65
2 16/09/2014 £200 2 £131
3 26/01/2016 £200 6 £68
4 23/06/2016 £200 6 £70
5 05/08/2016 £200 4 £91
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint be upheld in part. He thought  Peachy 
carried out adequate checks before agreeing all of the loans apart  from loan two. 
The adjudicator thought  that for loan two, Peachy shouldve asked Mr B about his living  
costs, regular and short term lending commitments. The adjudicator thought  that if Peachy 
had done this, it wouldve discovered that Mr B wasnt left with any disposable income to be 
able to afford loan two.
Peachy didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendation. It didnt think that the increase 
in the amount of Mr Bs borrowing shouldve prompted a more  thorough  assessment  of his 
finances before agreeing to lend.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  I was minded not to uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint.
Peachy was required to carry out checks before agreeing to lend to make  sure that Mr B was 
able to repay each  loan.  These checks had to be proportionate to things such as the amount 
of each loan, the repayments and any lending history. But there wasnt  a set list of checks  
Peachy had to carry out.
I agreed with adjudicators  recommendation in relation to loans one, three  and four. I didnt 
agree with the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loan two. And although  I agreed  
with the adjudicators recommendation  in relation to loan five, I didnt consider that Peachys  
checks were proportionate. 
loan two
The adjudicator thought  that as Mr B was asking to borrow twice as much money than 
before and his income was £850,  Peachy  shouldve  asked more questions  than it did. 
Ref: DRN01443892The adjudicator thought  that Peachy shouldve been  asking Mr B for details of his living  
costs, regular and short term credit commitments. And that if Peachy had done this, it 
wouldve seen that Mr B was paying £600  to a credit card company as well as more than 
£300 to other short  term lenders. 
I thought a proportionate check  shouldve included Peachy asking  about  his normal living  
costs and regular  credit commitments. In the absence  of any other evidence  to the contrary,  
I didnt consider that Peachy needed  to ask Mr B about his other  short term lending 
commitments.
Peachy gave us evidence  that it asked Mr B for details of his credit commitments  and other 
expenses. As I couldnt see that Peachy asked Mr B about his living  costs,  I didnt  think the 
checks went far enough but this didnt necessarily mean that I must uphold  Mr Bs complaint 
about loan two. I would have needed to be persuaded that with better checks,  Peachy  
wouldve found the loan to be unaffordable  for Mr B.
The adjudicator said that Mr B didnt appear  to have much in the way of living  expenditure on 
his bank statements. It also looked as though Mr B told Peachy that he was living with family 
so didnt have  any housing expenses.
I thought it was reasonable of Peachy to take what Mr B said about  his credit commitments  
at face value. This meant  I didnt consider  it fair to substitute Mr Bs actual regular credit  
commitments for the monthly credit commitment  figure that Peachy recorded at the time of 
taking out loan two.
Even if I allowed for a few hundred pounds of living costs, when I added this to Mr Bs 
declared monthly credit commitments of £200 and his other monthly commitments,  it 
wouldve appeared to Peachy that he had enough  disposable income to afford the monthly  
repayments of £131.  
This meant that I didnt intend upholding  Mr Bs complaint about loan two.
loan five
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint about loan five should  be upheld 
because he thought that Peachy carried out adequate checks.
This was the third time that Mr B had asked to borrow in the same chain. As Peachys most 
recent affordability assessment related to loan four and not loan five, I didnt think that 
Peachy had carried out proportionate checks before agreeing loan five.
As I said for loan two, just because I didnt consider Peachys checks  were  adequate didnt 
necessarily mean that I must go on to uphold Mr Bs complaint about this loan.
Although I couldnt  see Mr Bs salary payments on the bank statements that he gave us, I 
thought it likely he wouldve given  Peachy  a broadly  similar income  figure to the one that he 
gave about six weeks earlier.
I couldnt see much if any living costs or regular credit commitments on Mr Bs bank  
statement. I could see a number of short term loan transactions but I didnt think  it was 
proportionate to expect Peachy to have  asked about these. I also didnt think  that Peachy 
Ref: DRN01443893needed to go as far as asking to see bank  statements before agreeing loan three. This 
meant Peachy  wouldnt have been aware  of Mr Bs gambling transactions  unless  hed 
mentioned them.
Overall, I didnt  think that better checks wouldve changed Peachys  decision to agree loan 
five.
loan one 
Peachy asked Mr B for details of his income  and expenditure. Mr B declared a monthly  net 
income of £1,000. Given that Peachy expected Mr B to repay a relatively modest  proportion  
of his declared income, I thought it was reasonable of Peachy to agree  loan one based  on 
knowing Mr Bs income alone. So I couldnt  reasonably say that Peachy was wrong to agree 
loan one.
loans three  and four
Peachy gave us evidence  that it asked Mr B for details of his income and outgoings,  
including his regular  and short term credit commitments before agreeing  loans three and 
four. As there had been a significant break  between Mr B repaying loan two and taking  out 
loan three,  I thought Peachys checks went far enough.
Based on the information that Peachy held or should have held about Mr B, I couldnt  
reasonably say that it was wrong to agree any of the loans.
further submissions
Mr B accepts my provisional  decision. Peachy also accepts it but has said that before 
agreeing loan two it also asked Mr B about  his rent. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr B and Peachy have accepted  my 
provisional decision, it follows that I make  my final decision along  the same  lines.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
 
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01443894
Ref: DRN0144389