K820x#14Complaint
Ms Rs complaint is about the first payment  date on her Hire Purchase  Agreement (HPA) 
with Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
Background
Ms R entered into a HPA with MBFS to acquire  a car. She signed the agreement on 31 
January 2019,  and said she was told her first payment  would be taken 30 days  after 
receipt of the car. She received the car on 4 February. She then received a letter saying 
that the first payment  would be taken  on 28 February 2019.
Ms R asked  for her payment date to be moved  to 1 March  but this wasnt accepted. She 
then asked for payment not to be taken in February  while  she had started  the complaint 
process but said this was ignored. She also said that she was told she could no longer 
hand the car back as more than 14 days had passed  but said she raised her complaint 
within the first 14 days. 
Ms R also complained about the approach taken by MBFS in regard to applying  adverse 
information on her credit file. 
MBFS said that the dealer explained that Ms Rs deal was put through  in January so that 
she would qualify  for the free servicing  and that Ms R was aware of this. It said that the 
agreement was set up on 29 January  and payment would  be due a month later. As the 
next month was February payment was due to be taken  on 28 February.  It said a 
payment needed  to be made each month.
MBFS said that Ms Rs payment date could be changed to 1st of the month but this would 
involve two payments  being made  close together and it offered, as a gesture of goodwill, 
to cover half of a monthly payment.
Ms R didnt  agree with MBFS response  and brought her complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Ms R doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for these reasons:
Ms R singed the HPA on 31 January  2019  and in doing so agreed  to its terms and 
conditions. The HPA sets out that there  will be 48 monthly  payments with the first 
payment being  due a month  after the date of the agreement. While I appreciate 
Ms Rs comments  about payment being taken 30 days after either the HPA was 
signed or the car delivered  (which took place a few days  later) the HPA doesnt  say 
this but instead says a month  after the agreement date.  It then says that a further  47 
payments will be taken  on the same date of each month. This supports MBFS 
comments that a payment  is taken each month (rather than on a 30 day basis)  and 
that the first will be due the month  after the agreement  is signed. As February is a 
short month this meant that the payment was taken less than 30 days  after the 
agreement was signed. While I can understand why Ms R wasnt  expecting  the first 
payment to be required until March, I do not find I can say that MBFS did anything 
wrong by setting the first payment for 28 February.
Ref: DRN07772112Ms R made a number  of suggestions as to how to resolve  the issue. MBFS has 
explained that a payment needed to be taken each month  and so suggestions that 
would involve a month without a payment wouldnt work. The HPA is set up requiring 
monthly payments  and while  it is reasonable that a payment date can be changed I 
do not find it unreasonable  that MBFS said a payment was required each month.
MBFS acknowledged that changing the payment date would  result  in two payments  
being made close together and offered to cover half of a months rental  for Ms R. I 
find this was a reasonable offer.
I understand the payment date has now been changed to 1st of the month  in line with 
Ms Rs request.
As a payment was missed, I do not find I can say that MBFS was wrong to contact 
Ms R about this and to note the impact  this could have on Ms Rs credit file.
Ms R also noted that she raised  her concerns within  the first 14 days.  As our 
investigator has explained, Ms R had a right to withdraw from the HPA within the first 
14 days and had she done so she would have been  required  repay  the finance 
(subject to any rebate). This didnt happen  and the 14 day period has passed. There  
are still options for Ms R to end the HPA early if she wishes  and if she does intend to 
do this then she should discuss this with MBFS directly. 
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0777211