K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in 1994 and it looks as if they were  sold PPI some time 
later  around July 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with this 
view. 
Mr and Mrs D mainly say they didn't know PPI was optional and theyd felt pressurised into 
taking PPI, even  though  they didn't need it, as they were told they had a better  chance  of 
getting the mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Mr and Mrs D took out the mortgage  in joint names and they both had PPI, so Ive looked at 
both their circumstances.   
Halifax couldnt provide paperwork from the PPI sale. So Ive seen nothing  signed by 
Mr and Mrs D that shows  when or how PPI was sold to them.  But this isnt a reason for me 
to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that 
paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs D to have kept this for 
so long. Mr and Mrs D told us they arranged things during  a meeting so I think  this is 
probably what happened. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr and Mrs D arranged to buy PPI. After so 
long it isnt reasonable to expect them to recall exactly what was said then. This means  that 
what they say now isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint.
I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Halifax  didnt make it 
clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs D not to choose  PPI if they didnt want to have it. 
Theyd had their mortgage for some  time without PPI  so theyd have been aware at the 
time that PPI wasnt a requirement of having the mortgage. 
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, and their home wouldve been at risk if 
their mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why they mightve  felt PPI 
was useful to have  even  if they hadnt taken  it out at the start.  
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs D decided they wanted to have the 
benefits and security that PPI offered and they decided  to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN01254552Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs D. So it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for their circumstances  and that it gave  Mr and Mrs D enough clear information  to 
make a proper decision  about having PPI. 
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.  PPI protected  Mr and Mrs D 
in the event of unexpected unemployment  for up to 12 months per claim. 
And the policy wouldve also protected their mortgage repayments if either of them  had an 
accident or was too sick or disabled to work. Mr and Mrs D told us they both had at least 
6 months sick pay through work. But, if either  (or both) of them had been off sick, the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits  for a full 12 months.  This couldve been useful 
 particularly if they mightve  faced additional  costs as a result  of being ill or having a 
disability.  
Mr and Mrs D couldve made repeated claims on the policy  after a qualifying  period back  at 
work. So PPI provided long term cover for as long as they had to pay their mortgage. 
Death in service benefits paid out in different circumstances to PPI and provided  a different 
sort of cover.  
Mr and Mrs D mentioned  having some savings.  But there  was no guarantee when they took 
out this mortgage that they would  always  have  savings to rely on as everyones  
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And if they decided against investing  all their savings to reduce the amount of their mortgage 
this suggests  to me that they had other plans for that money. Having PPI meant 
Mr and Mrs D could depend on being  able to continue to keep savings  intact to spend on 
other things  or to provide  financial  security  for the future. 
PPI is more dependable than relying on other peoples  help in the event of money problems. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs D could be sure theyd always  be able to keep up the 
mortgage monthly repayments. I think that wouldve been an important consideration when 
they were buying  their house. So I can see why Mr and Mrs D mightve wanted PPI at the 
time  even  if theyve  forgotten this now.  
Overall, looking at Mr and Mrs Ds work benefits  and personal circumstances, I think the 
policy was suitable  for them taking into account  what theyve told us about their situation  at 
the time. 
Mr and Mrs D were both eligible for the policy. And as they were both earning and 
contributing to the mortgage the benefit split looks reasonable to me. It looks as if they 
werent affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. So, I think  it unlikely  that better 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve  affected their decision to 
take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs D when they bought the policy. 
But from what Ive seen,  they havent  suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly 
premiums. 
Ref: DRN01254553Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs D still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed as 
the policy gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation.
This means  I dont  find that theyve lost out as a result of anything  that Halifax  mightve done 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0125455