K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out the PPI in March 2002  at the same time as he arranged the credit card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S says there was no mention of PPI during the meeting  and therefore  it must have been 
added to the credit card account without his knowledge or consent. The credit  card 
application form has a separate section for insurance. There  is a pre-printed  cross in the box 
to request PPI. From what we know of BoSs sales processes  at the time, I think there would 
have been a discussion about PPI and that the cross would only have been entered in the 
box if Mr S said that he wanted  the policy. The relevant section of the application form also 
has the option to select  another insurance product, but the box next to that has been  left 
blank to decline it. If, as Mr S has said, the adviser automatically added  the PPI to his 
account, I might have expected him to end up with all of the available insurance options.
Mr Ss representative has quoted from another decision issued by this service about another 
bank.. But different businesses had different sales processes  and complaints are looked at 
on a case by case basis, having regard to the available  evidence.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ss recollection  of the 
sale has faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Mr S has said,  but looking  at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely that the PPI was discussed and that the optional  nature of it 
was explained.  It seems to me that Mr S probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt 
have to, even  if he no longer  remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mr S to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Mr S it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ss circumstances at the time,  it 
was suitable for him.
Mr S has said that he would have received six months sick pay from his job. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer  than Mr S would have 
received full pay for. And Mr S didnt have any savings to fall back  on. Mr S has said that 
family would have helped make  his repayments.  But other people cant always be relied  
upon as their circumstances can change. So I think the policy  could have provided Mr S with 
a useful benefit at what  would have  been  a difficult time.
Ref: DRN08124052Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of those  things. 
As I think  that Mr S had an interest  in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  him to change his mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr S paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already offered to 
give Mr S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0812405