K822xcomplaint
Mrs E complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) defaulted her overdraft after 
shed asked to close it down. 
background 
In October  2015 Mrs E visited a Halifax branch and cancelled all her direct  debits. Mrs E 
says she thought her overdraft facility had also been cancelled. Mrs Es pension was paid 
into her account and she arranged for a monthly standing  order payment of £500 to be 
made. 
Mrs E moved abroad in October 2015. She later transferred her pension  and wrote to Halifax 
to ask it to cancel the monthly standing order. Mrs E later found  out her overdraft hadnt 
been cancelled  and in 2017 paid in £500. Mrs E also found a regular payment to a lottery 
hadnt been cancelled. 
Mrs E complained and Halifax refunded the money paid to the lottery,  totalling  £103.50,  and 
offered her £100.  But it said that the remaining overdraft balance  was caused by the 
standing order. Halifax explained  that it had taken  the step of defaulting  the account 
because of the overdraft balance. But it offered to remove  the default from her credit file if 
she cleared the debt within 60 days. 
Mrs E didnt agree and referred her complaint  to this service. An adjudicator looked at what  
had happened  but thought Halifax had dealt with the complaint fairly. He said the 
outstanding balance was mainly caused  by Mrs Es standing order of £500 and that the 
overdraft charges had been applied correctly. Mrs E didnt  agree with the adjudicators  view 
and asked to appeal her complaint so its been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs E says when she visited Halifax in October  2015 she asked to cancel her overdraft. But 
it doesnt have  any record of her request. I can see from the account statements that Mrs E 
withdrew most of her money.  And Halifax has told us it cancelled her direct debits. 
Mrs E also paid a lottery  each month but that was processed differently. Halifax didnt offer 
to cancel the lottery payment in October  2015 which meant it continued to be paid until 
January 2017.  Halifax has since refunded all the payments  made after October  2015  and 
offered Mrs E £100  because of the error.  
Ive thought carefully about whether it was the lottery payment that caused  Mrs Es account 
to go overdrawn and default. But the statements show that the account  wouldve gone 
overdrawn even if the lottery  payment  had been  cancelled in October 2015.
The statements  show  Mrs E received a monthly pension  payment of £552 but after 
January 2016  the payment reduced  to £311. That meant Mrs Es payments into the account  
werent enough to cover  the £500 standing order. As a result,  Mrs E went into her overdraft 
facility and started to pay charges for using it. The last pension payment of £311 was 
received on 6 May 2016 and the last standing order payment  for £500 was made on 
Ref: DRN090193429 May 2016.  That left an outstanding overdraft balance of £585.63 which  increased  when  
overdraft charges were  applied. 
Halifax refunded  £103.50  to Mrs Es account  because of the lottery  payments. Mrs Es 
account still wouldve  been around £500 overdrawn on 1 June 2016, even if the lottery  
payments had been cancelled in October  2015. So whilst I agree Halifax made a mistake  I 
dont think thats  affected Mrs Es overall position. 
Theres no record of a request to cancel the overdraft. And if Halifax  had done  that in 
October 2015 Mrs E wouldve incurred  default charges when her standing  orders were  
returned unpaid.  
The main  reason Mrs Es account was overdrawn was due to the difference between  her 
pension payment and standing order each  month. That caused  an overdraft balance  to build. 
I can see Mrs E paid £250 into her account in May and June  2017  but that didnt cover 
everything she owed.  Afterwards  the outstanding balance  was £550.53 and it continued  to 
attract daily overdraft fees.  That increased  the balance  until the debt was transferred to 
Recoveries in August  2018. 
Mrs Es told us that she sent Halifax instructions  in the post to change  her address. But, 
Halifax says it didnt  receive Mrs Es letter and she didnt follow it up. Im sorry to disappoint  
Mrs E but Im satisfied  Halifax didnt  receive  her instruction so continued to contact her at the 
address it had on file. 
I think Halifax did receive Mrs Es request to cancel the standing  order in 2016  as it stopped 
being paid around the same time as her pension payments. 
In her response to the adjudicator Mrs E has raised  concerns about a £23 credit  balance she 
has on a Halifax credit card. But thats not something shes asked  Halifax to look into and 
doesnt form part of her complaint. If Mrs E remains concerned  about  the balance  on her 
credit card shell have to ask Halifax to investigate before we can get involved. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs E and Halifax  have said and provided. Having 
done so, Im satisfied the overdraft balance was caused by genuine spending on Mrs Es 
account. As a result, I think Halifaxs decision to default the account and report  it to the credit 
reference agencies  was fair. I agree  Halifax made a mistake when it continued to make  
lottery payments. But, for the reasons given above,  I havent  found that impacted the 
decision to default.  Halifax refunded  £103.50  and has offered £100 to Mrs E. I leave it to 
Mrs E to decide whether she wishes to accept the £100 on offer. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £103.50 already paid and £100 
Bank of Scotland plc has offered Mrs E. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0901934