K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the confusion caused by Aldermore Bank Plc when he asked to 
transfer a cash ISA.
background
Mr O had an ISA with Aldermore. He wanted  to transfer it to another provider when it 
matured. And he received  an email from Aldermore accepting his instructions. He had a 
further message  confirming the request had been  made. But he also got a letter saying 
Aldermore hadnt  received his instructions. And his money  had been  placed in a 30-day 
notice account.  Mr O said hed given Aldermore enough notice. So he wants £20 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience  caused.
Aldermore said itd received the transfer  request on 25 February. The account was due to 
mature on 7 March. Aldermore said it had 5 business days to transfer  the funds. When  
Mr Os ISA matured  Aldermore  hadnt finished  processing his request. So itd sent an 
automatic letter.
Aldermore apologised  for any concern caused. But the transfer was completed on 11 March 
within 3 business  days of the maturity  date. So it felt it had acted in an appropriate  and 
timely manner. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied with Aldermores response. So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He thought Aldermore couldve been clearer  what  its 
processes were. It wouldve prevented any confusion. As far as Mr O was concerned  his 
transfer instructions  were  the same  thing as maturity instructions. But he could see the 
transfer had taken place within the five-day  guidelines. So he wouldnt be asking Aldermore 
to do anything more.
Mr O didnt agree. Aldermore had received his instructions. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O asked for his ISA to be transferred to another provider. And he received confirmation  
from Aldermore it would  take place on 7 March  2019 when the policy  matured. So I can 
understand his confusion  when he received  a letter on 8 March. It said Aldermore hadnt 
received his instructions and his money  had been  placed on a temporary deposit. 
Aldermore explained  the letter had been sent because the policy was being transferred 
rather than reaching  maturity. And it was still dealing with the transfer  within the normal 
guidelines. 
But I do think Mr O had made  his instructions clear. And Aldermores letter wouldve caused 
some confusion after hed received  confirmation  that everything had been  received and 
would go ahead.
Ref: DRN07441412Aldermore did complete the transfer within the expected timeframe. And Mr O received a 
confirmation email once the ISA had been transferred. But I felt Aldermore should 
compensate Mr O for the concern itd caused. Aldermore has agreed to pay Mr O £20 for his 
trouble and upset.  And Mr O has accepted  the offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that Aldermore Bank Plc should pay Mr O £20 compensation as it has 
already agreed  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0744141