K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the legal fees attached to a claim they made under
their legal expenses  insurance policy with Aviva  Insurance  Limited  (Aviva).
For the sake of clarity when I make reference  to Aviva I mean both the underwriter itself and
any agents working on its behalf.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a house in October  2013.  In December 2013, some eight weeks after
they moved in, there was a flood in the house.  Over the following weeks and months
numerous different  problems were discovered and Mr and Mrs M eventually decided to
make a claim under their legal expenses insurance  policy to help cover  the costs  of getting
their home repaired.
Issues continued to be found  within the property and by summer 2017  extensive repairs  
were underway. Mr and Mrs M informed this service  that they were made aware  of an offer 
by the National  House Building  Council  (NHBC) to buy back  their house  around this time. 
They told us that they declined this offer as they wanted the repairs to be completed so they 
could live in their home. 
Mr and Mrs M told us that, the solicitors  appointed  by Avivas agents,  advised them that the 
offer to buy back the house was reasonable. Under the terms of their legal expenses  
insurance policy they were obliged to accept any reasonable offer that would mitigate their 
costs.
In section 3 of the general conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy  it states:
3.e If you do not accept  the recommendation of the appointed representative to accept a
reasonable offer or payment into court to settle a claim, we may refuse to pay further  costs
and expenses.
As Mr and Mrs M had refused the offer put forward by the NHBC they were  told their legal 
expenses insurance  cover would be withdrawn by Aviva and they would  be liable for some of 
their legal costs. 
When Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to this service they told us that matters had 
moved forward with their complaint and the CEO  of the NHBC had made  another  offer to 
cover the costs of the repairs to their home  and some of their legal expenses  costs. As such  
Mr and Mrs M were  trying to obtain a final bill from Avivas legal agents to present to the 
NHBC in order  to recover some of these costs.  
Avivas agents sent Mr and Mrs M copies  of all the invoices it had received from the 
solicitors it had appointed to act on their behalf. Mr and Mrs M reviewed these and disputed 
some of the amounts charged. They stated they found evidence  of duplicate  billing  as well 
as charges for matters they believed they shouldnt be held liable for. They  asked for the 
invoices to be reviewed  and a final bill to be issued to them.  
Avivas agents informed us they were unable to provide the final bill at this stage as the 
matter remained ongoing. They  explained  they relied on the information  provided by the 
Ref: DRN04949122solicitors and if Mr and Mrs M had any concerns regarding how they were  billed, or what for, 
they needed to take it up with the solicitors directly. 
Mr and Mrs M tried to get the matter resolved with the solicitors but were unable  to reach an 
acceptable outcome.  They brought their concerns  to the legal ombudsman  to consider. They 
received an answer  from that service earlier this year. The remaining dispute  regarding the 
withdrawal of cover and the request  for a final bill from Aviva  was then considered by this 
service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 June 2019.  In it I found that Aviva was entitled to 
withdraw the legal  expenses  cover  when the offer to buy back the house  was made in July 
2017. Mr and Mrs M had accepted this point before the complaint came to me to consider. 
In regards to the outstanding issue relating to the final bill I explained that this service was 
unable to investigate  issues  regarding legal costs. It is outside  of our remit and not 
something it was appropriate  for me to comment on.
I suggested that if Mr and Mrs M wanted  the costs set out by Avivas  agents to be 
investigated they could either hire a cost assessor themselves or bring the matter to the 
courts to consider. 
Mr and Mrs M have  since hired a solicitor to act on their behalf  in regards to this matter. 
Their solicitor has responded to the provisional  decision  by arguing that the offer made in 
2017 to buy back  the house  was never an offer in a legally binding  way. Rather it believes it 
was an outline proposal and an indication that the NHBC  intended to enter  negotiations with 
Mr and Mrs M. As such  Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor believes there are a number of errors within  
the decision as it was based on an incorrect premise, i.e. that an offer had been made when 
none was. 
Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors  have also argued that Aviva were wrong to withdraw cover as no 
offer was ever made and as such it was not possible for Mr and Mrs M to mitigate their 
costs. It believes they should  not be held liable for any of the legal costs incurred to date. It 
has said the advice  given to Mr and Mrs M in regards to the July 2017 offer was wrong and 
has alluded  to a number of things it feels the solicitors dealing  with Mr and Mrs Ms claim got 
wrong. 
They have asked  that Aviva cover  the full costs  of legal expenses  claim as well as the 
additional legal advice Mr and Mrs M received from them in relation to this complaint. They 
have also indicated that we should ask Aviva to make a substantial award for the distress 
and inconvenience  Mr and Mrs M have experienced over the last two years.
Avivas agents responded to the provisional decision by stating it too had received 
correspondence from Mr and Mrs Ms newly appointed solicitors. It has said it was confused  
as to why Mr and Mrs M were now stating there was never an offer put to them  as up until 
now they had been arguing  for a finalised bill on the basis of that offer. It further said 
Mr and Mrs M were  obliged under  the terms of their policy to mitigate their costs, and Aviva  
was entitled to request a contribution to these given  their refusal  to sell the house  back to the 
NHBC in July 2017.
Ref: DRN04949123my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors  appear to want to change  their complaint  at this point. The 
argument they are making regarding whether or not an offer was made in 2017 is one of 
semantics. Throughout this complaint Mr and Mrs M have repeatedly  made reference to, and 
set out their arguments  around, the existence of two offers  made by the NHBC. The first to 
buy back their home and the second to cover  some of their overall  expenses  including  their 
legal expenses. It is neither appropriate,  nor fair, to try to reframe  their complaint at this 
stage. 
Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors  have said that it was incorrect  of Aviva to withdraw cover under  the 
legal expenses policy in 2017. However when Mr and Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to 
consider their complaint they had accepted  this was a reasonable step for Aviva to take 
given the various  offers  that had been put to them. It therefore  feels unreasonable to me that 
they would  attempt to reframe  this part of their complaint at this stage. In any event, the 
decision to withdraw  cover was based on the legal advice the solicitors had given. And its 
not my role to review whether that legal advice  was correct. 
It seems  to me that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint now focuses around whether or not a 
legitimate and legally binding offer was ever put to them. Mr and Mrs Ms current  solicitors 
say the previous solicitors advice was negligent.  I am not in any position  to comment  on the 
legal advice Mr and Mrs M received  from those  solicitors, something I have already 
explained to Mr M directly. Therefore I will not be considering it in this decision.  That is a 
discussion for their solicitors and something that is not appropriate for this service to 
consider as it is outside of our jurisdictional  remit.
I remain of the opinion that Mr and Mrs Ms concerns over the costs they may be held liable  
for need to be addressed by a cost assessor  or through the courts. Should Mr and Mrs M 
now wish pursue an argument that no offer was ever put to them, they need  to raise this with 
the agents directly.  It is not appropriate or fair to try to change the premise  of their complaint 
with us at this stage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 27 June 2019,  I dont  uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against  Aviva  Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0494912