K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office  Money)  charged him 
interest on purchases hed made on his credit card even though hed paid the full amount of 
the transactions into his credit card account immediately.
background
Mr S had a zero interest  balance outstanding on his credit card.  He made some  purchases 
using his card. He didnt want to incur interest on those transactions  so he immediately paid 
in to his credit card account an amount in excess of the total value of the transactions.  But 
Post Office  Money took that off the outstanding  balance and not the purchases hed made. 
So it charged him interest.
Post Office  Money said that when Mr S paid in the total amount for his purchases, it hadnt  
generated the relevant  credit card statement debiting those transactions  from his account. It 
hadnt billed  him for his purchases at that stage. So it allocated his payments  to his 
outstanding balance. 
 
The adjudicator didnt think Post Office Money had done anything  wrong.  He said itd 
charged interest in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the terms and conditions  say payments will be allocated  towards 
higher interest  first. And as he has a zero interest outstanding balance,  Post office Money 
shouldve allocated payments to his purchases, which had a higher interest rate. He said this 
is the industry norm.  So he thinks Post Office Money was wrong to charge  him interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr S feels about this so I know hell be disappointed with my decision 
but I dont think  Post Office Money  has done  anything wrong.
 Clause 9.2 of the terms and conditions of Mr Ss credit  card account says this:
Payments we receive will be applied to the different amounts of your outstanding  balance in 
the order of highest interest  rate to lowest interest  rate. If you have more than one balance at 
the same  interest  rate, your payment will be applied against transactions  in the order  of 
Cash, Purchases (including Purchases  made during the introductory period), Fees and 
Charges, and Promotional Balances, with the exception of where  a Default Charge  is yet to 
incur interest, in which case the Default Charge will be paid off last. If you have  more  than 
one Promotional  Balance at the same interest  rate, your payment will be applied against the 
balance that ends first. If the payment is greater than your monthly  statement balance,  we 
will apply any remaining  payment against  transactions that have not yet appeared on your 
statement in the same order as those that have.
Ref: DRN03839972Mr S believes that as his purchases attracted the highest interest  rate, Post office Money 
shouldve allocated his payments towards those transactions. The difficulty is that when he 
made the payments Post Office Money hadnt  generated the statement debiting  those  
purchases. So it could only allocate  the payments towards his outstanding balance. And that 
is what it did in line with its terms and conditions above.
I sympathise with Mr S to some extent because  its clear  he wanted to pay for his purchases 
in full without incurring any interest. But for the reasons Ive given I cant  find Post Office 
Money has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0383997