K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss D says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1998. It was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss D aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I dont know for certain what was said at the time the policy was sold,  
but FICL  has provided a copy of Miss Ds application  form. Having  viewed the application 
form Miss D has told us that she didnt complete the details on the form herself, she only 
signed it. Ive considered  what Miss D has said, and I dont think  it would be unusual  for an 
advisor for the store  to have filled the details on the form during a conversation with Miss D. 
At the time Miss D was agreeing to an important  financial  commitment so I would have 
expected her to have  read the form thoroughly before signing in agreement with it. So overall 
I think FICL  made  it clear  that Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss D so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Miss D has told us she was entitled  to sick pay and redundancy pay when she applied  
for the PPI. She also lived with parents so had no material  outgoings. But the policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to Miss Ds sick pay and for longer than she would  have received 
full pay. The PPI would also have covered circumstances  other than redundancy. 
While Miss D lived with her parents  when  she applied for the policy I still think  she could  
have benefited  from it if she had a reason to claim, and as Ive said above I think she chose 
to take it out.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ds circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
Ref: DRN02330032for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Miss D has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0233003