K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them payment protection  insurance 
(PPI).
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs S took out PPI along with an HSBC mortgage.  The policy protected their 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event  that Mr S wasnt  able to work as a result  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
And it looks like their mortgage & benefit  level increased in August 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs S disagree. 
They mainly  say they were given  the impression that if they didnt take the insurance they 
would be turned down for the mortgage,  so on this basis  they agreed to take the insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
HSBC hasnt been able to provide any documents to show  how the PPI was taken out either 
at the start of their mortgage or later on. But that isnt surprising given how long ago these 
sales happened. Mr and Mrs S told us they took out the PPI during a meeting so I think  its 
likely thats  what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs S told us about  the way they say HSBC sold 
them PPI. But what Mr and Mrs S say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  
their complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect  Mr and Mrs S to recall exactly  what  was 
discussed at the time. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what  I think is 
most likely.  
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ss home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept up to 
date. So, I can see why they mightve  felt PPI was useful to have.  I can completely 
understand why they mightve forgotten  some of the details  from the sale. On balance,  
I think its likely that Mr and Mrs S decided they wanted to have the benefits and security  that 
PPI offered  and they chose to buy it when  they took out their mortgage. 
If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. As well as this, it also has to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So, as Mr and Mrs S say they took out the 
policy during a meeting, even though HSBC cant confirm if it advised them to take out PPI, 
I think the fairest way to assess this complaint is to look at it as if HSBC recommended  the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN04026402Mr S was eligible for the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in 
the event of an accident or illness that prevented  Mr S from working.  So it provided better 
cover than any sick pay entitlement  hes mentioned  that he couldve depended on from work. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr S lost his 
job and became unexpectedly  unemployed. 
Mr S couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving Mr and Mrs S long term protection  
for their mortgage.
Its not clear if Mr and Mrs S had any savings  when they took out the PPI. But in any event, 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs S wouldve  always had savings to rely on if theyd needed to 
make a claim. So this doesnt affect my overall  view.
It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs S had any other  ways  to pay their mortgage if Mr S wasnt 
able to work. Although Mrs S was working at the time, the mortgage was based on them 
both earning. So I think that losing Mr Ss income  wouldve  had a big impact on their 
finances overall. Looking  at everything I've been told about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time,  I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible  some information HSBC gave  Mr and Mrs S about the policy wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if Mr S was affected by any of the things the policy 
didnt cover. So, I dont  think  having  more information about  the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ss decision to take out PPI for Mr S.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs S when they bought  the policy. 
But, from what Ive seen,  Mr and Mrs S chose to take out PPI so they appear to have been  
happy to pay for the cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest that they couldnt  afford  the monthly 
premiums at the time.  
When Mr and Mrs S took out some  extra borrowing on their mortgage account  they 
increased the PPI they had. And I can understand why. As far as I can see, their 
circumstances hadnt changed. The new policy gave Mr S the same benefits  and it provided  
Mr and Mrs S with the long term protection they already had for their original mortgage. 
Mr S continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under the policy. 
So I think its likely that Mr and Mrs S agreed  the extra cost as they wanted PPI benefits to 
cover their extra borrowing in the same  way their original mortgage  was protected.  They paid 
for the PPI on a monthly  basis.  If their circumstances had changed, or they decided  they 
didnt any longer want to pay for PPI, they couldve cancelled  the policy without extra  cost at 
any time. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way HSBC  sold 
Mr and Mrs S PPI, I dont think that better information wouldve put them  off having  it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  them,  I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs S 
wouldve made a different  decision about  taking out the policy  if better information had been 
provided. On balance, I think theyd still have taken  it out. 
So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs S lost out as a result  of anything HSBC did wrong. This 
means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN04026403my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0402640