K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Citibank, N.A. closed  her five accounts in November  2018  without 
notice. She wants compensation for the time shes spent  trying to put things right,  various 
expenses shes incurred  and for its negligence. 
background
Citibank said in its final response that when  contacted by Mrs H about the closure  of her 
accounts itd explained this was because it had incomplete tax information on her. It said itd 
communicated with her about  the matter three times  and told her what she needed to do to 
prevent the accounts being  closed.  Its emails are monitored to ensure they arent 
undelivered. If they arent delivered  it will send more  correspondence by other means. Here 
this wasnt the case. It also sent another final email which  was delivered but unopened. As it 
didnt get the required  regulatory  information the accounts were closed in line with its terms 
and conditions.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
Mrs H says the accounts were closed  due to Brexit. But that doesnt seem  to be the 
case.
The accounts terms and conditions allowed Citibank to close  a customers  account 
as long as notice is given. A bank doesnt  have to explain why its decided  to close 
an account. But here Citibank has given an adequate explanation.
There was some discussion  about  what information Mrs H needed to give Citibank to 
satisfy the US tax authorities. And despite her supplying what she thought  was 
needed Citibank  asked for more  information  to meet  its regulatory  obligations.  This 
was in line with its terms and conditions.
Citibank sent emails explaining what it needed and warned that if the information 
wasnt received it would close Mrs Hs accounts. Although shes  unhappy with the 
way it communicated  with her, all it had to do was notify her of the account closures 
which it did. It wasnt required to send her letters. 
Although the account closures  caused  Mrs H significant inconvenience  Citibank 
didnt make any errors when doing so. It made a fair and reasonable decision that 
was in line with its terms and conditions. It doesnt need to do anything  more. 
Mrs H doesnt agree this is fair and shes asked for an ombudsman review. She says 
Citibank says it tracked its four emails. They werent opened but it didnt take further action. 
It couldve contacted  her by other means like the post or secure  messaging which she had a 
history of using regularly. Her indirect  loss is £3,260 and shes  also incurred direct  losses  of 
penalties, interest, charges and fees for making  payments and transactions. Citibank has 
formed a new bank  in response to Brexit and this is why its cleared out unwanted accounts 
like hers. She shouldve  been sent hard copy letters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07280152I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mrs H has provided detailed  submissions  to support her complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
The terms and conditions  of the accounts say, amongst other  things, that Citibank may send 
any notice or other communication  either  to Mrs Hs last registered address by a secure 
electronic message or to a fax number or email address. And it may contact her by phone  or 
electronic means  like SMS.
Citibank isnt therefore required to communicate by letter and its use of email to contact  Mrs 
H was within  the terms and conditions even if shed  have  preferred it to have used another  
communication method. Additionally theres nothing  to require  it to ensure any email  
communication has been read. Citibank says it monitored emails  to see if they were  
undelivered and if so it would communicate  in another way. But here the emails it sent to 
Mrs H werent  undelivered and so it wouldnt try to contact her by any other means.  That 
seems reasonable.
The terms and conditions  also say Citibank can close an account at any time by giving not 
less than two months notice. In this case Citibank was entitled to ask Mrs H for information it 
believed was required to furnish to the US tax authorities to comply with its regulatory 
obligations. And when it didnt get it, or for any other reason, it was entitled to close  the 
accounts on notice  as it did.
Overall I think  Citibank  acted in line with its terms and conditions. And although I recognise 
Mrs Hs frustration I cant agree with her that it has acted unfairly. As such I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably require Citibank to pay Mrs H any compensation for whats happened  
including her suggested indirect  losses  of £3,260  or any direct  loses, as shed like.
Mrs H also says Citibank was negligent  but thats not something I can consider. Only a court 
can do so.
This service isnt a regulator. We cant require a business to change its practices and 
procedures, including  how it communicates  with its clients,  or comment upon its response  to 
Brexit or any decision to open  a new bank. General issues about how the insurance industry 
works are a matter for the Financial Conduct  Authority.
Overall, although I recognise  Mrs Hs strength of feeling I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0728015