K820x#14complaint
Mr J is complaining that IG Markets Limited (IG) closed a number of positions on his 
spread betting  account at incorrect prices on 17 April 2018. 
Mr J has also complained  that he had previously closed his account in November 2016 and 
it shouldnt have been reactivated in January 2018.  He thinks IG should bear some of the 
responsibility for the losses  he incurred. 
background
Mr J had a spread betting account with IG. He called IG in November 2016  to close his 
account. However, the account wasnt completely closed and he was able to reactivate  it in 
January 2018  after depositing  some funds. 
In April 2018 Mr J had open positions in Immupharma and Blue Prism that were  closed  by IG 
on 17 April 2018 because  of lack of margin on his account. He doesnt think  the prices  his 
positions were closed at is fair. He said his account  had been  frozen  and the closing prices 
were the lowest of the day. 
Mr J has also complained  that he shouldnt have been able to reactivate his account in 
January 2018.  He had tried to close it in November 2016. He has told us he is a compulsive 
gambler. To close his account, IG had sked him to email his closure request. Mr J thinks it 
was unfair  that he would have had to send an email  to close  the account but could re-open it 
over the phone. He thinks this is a double  standard. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didn't think  it could be upheld.  Mr J has 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J had open positions on his account in Immupharma and Blue Prism. As a result  of bad 
news, Immupharmas share price dropped significantly from around 149p  to 19p overnight. 
This caused a margin call on the account and as a result Mr Js positions were closed. 
Mr Js account value  was in part made  up of the value of his open positions.  Those  positions  
are valued  based  on IGs prices for spread bets which are derived from the share price of 
the two companies.  When the market opened  on the day in question, the Immupharma 
share price had fallen  to such  a level that meant Mr J had insufficient margin on his account. 
Under its terms and conditions, this meant that IG was entitled to close Mr Js trades. 
When closing trades,  IG executes  a market order and it will execute  that order at the best 
available price. At that particular point though, there  werent  any tradeable prices for the 
share as it was in a volatility  auction. Im satisfied  it was reasonable for IG not to execute  
those trades  straight  away. This is because there was no reference price  for IG to have used 
for the spread bets. 
Once the auction finished, IG executed the trades at the first tradeable price on the market. 
Having considered the spread bet prices IG offered, and the prices in the underlying  market 
Ref: DRN00887632(as shown  by the third party tick data),  Im satisfied IG closed Mr Js position fairly and at a 
price reflective of the underlying market.  
Mr J has said that his account was frozen and that share prices  did subsequently increase.  
But I would say that this was after the event  ie there was insufficient  margin on Mr Js 
account for the positions he had to have been  kept open. It is not relevant to Mr Js 
complaint that the share price increased after his positions were closed. The account was 
suspended from trading  because of the negative balance  on his account  after his positions 
had been closed. That balance would need to be put right before Mr J could place any more 
trades. And, as Ive said above, Im satisfied the closure of the previous trades  and 
therefore the resulting negative balance  was carried out fairly. 
Ill now turn to Mr Js concerns over the re-opening of his account in 2018.  I have listened to 
the phone  call Mr J had with IG on 28 November 2016. He explained that he wanted to 
completely close his account. Because of the large  balance on the account it could not be 
transferred to him in one payment. It could only be transferred to him over the following three  
days. But the IG representative did set the account  to closing positions only which  meant 
Mr J couldnt place  any new trades.  And he explained  to Mr J that he would need to send an 
email in order for the account to be closed  completely. The fact that the account could be 
reactivated after funds were deposited, would suggest that IG never received an email  
asking for the account to be closed. So it seems  most likely that Mr J didn't send that final 
email. 
During the call, nothing  was said by Mr J that would have put IG on notice that he was a 
compulsive gambler. And if that had been  made clear then IG says it would  have taken a 
different course  of action after Mr J called in 2018  to reactivate the account. Spread betting  
is subject to a higher  degree of regulation than most other forms of gambling in order to 
protect consumers. But IG didn't have any knowledge of Mr Js problem so couldnt do 
anything differently. 
I completely appreciate Mr Js point  that he struggled to be open about his compulsive 
gambling behaviour  and would have found it difficult to explain this to the IG representative 
when he closed his account. But this doesnt alter the position that IG wasnt  aware  that 
there was a problem  and for it to have  acted appropriately under the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I do not uphold  Mr Js complaint.  IG Markets  Limited  acted 
correctly by closing  Mr Js positions.  And I dont agree that Mr Js account was reactivated  
when it shouldnt have  been. Mr J hadnt  fully closed the account  as he should  have and 
there was nothing to have  put IG Markets Limited  on notice that Mr J was a compulsive 
gambler.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0088763