K822xcomplaint
JL says The Society of Lloyds  caused  it inconvenience and cost when it failed to fairly 
assess a claim  made on its legal expenses insurance.
Reference to Lloyds includes the acts and omissions of its agents.
background
JL had a contract  with a local authority to provide certain consultancy services  during 2017. 
Unfortunately, the relationship between the parties deteriorated and JL ended up bringing several 
claims for discrimination  and breach of contract. These were pursued  via Employment Tribunal.
In October  2017 JL contacted Lloyds  to make a claim on its legal expenses insurance. 
By November 2017 Lloyds  had rejected JLs claim on the basis the policy didnt  provide  
cover for the circumstances arising.
After exhausting  Lloyds complaint process, JL brought its case  to this Service in May 2018. 
The investigator didnt  think it was reasonable for Lloyds  to rely on its interpretation  of the 
policy wording. In August 2018  he recommended JLs claim should be reconsidered,  subject 
to remaining  terms and conditions. Lloyds accepted his view.
Lloyds then commissioned a full legal assessment of JLs claim in September  2018. 
This was received  in November 2018 and concluded:
In summarywhilst a prospective claim [for breach of contract] may be brought by JL, 
it would  be brought  in the County Court  and not in the Tribunal. Thereafter the 
prospects of recovering substantial damages are very low. Any damages are likely to 
be only nominal [around  up to £100].
After receiving this advice JL decided to withdraw  the claims it had lodged with the 
Employment Tribunal. It then raised  a complaint with this Service regarding  the handling by 
Lloyds of its legal expenses claim.
JL said if Lloyds hadnt initially rejected its insurance claim then it wouldve gone on to 
provide a proper  legal assessment a year earlier than it did. And had it done so it wouldnt 
have expended the efforts it did advancing  its claims via the Employment Tribunal.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. JL disagreed and so its complaint  was passed to me 
for consideration. I issued my provisional findings  earlier this month and invited both parties  
to submit any final arguments or evidence. JL accepted what Id said.  Lloyds disagreed  and 
I will respond to the point it raised  in this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  JLs complaint  but not to the extent it sought.  
Ill explain  why.
The crux of JLs complaint is that Lloyds  incorrectly declined the legal expenses claim it 
submitted in October 2017. The claim was in relation to support it required for bringing  cases 
against a local authority  for discrimination and breach  of contract. After a recommendation 
from this Service, Lloyds  agreed to reconsider the claim.
Ref: DRN00711212A legal assessment of the claim was eventually provided through Lloyds in November 2018. 
This determined that JLs legal expenses policy only covered contract claims. That any claim 
for breach of contract should be made  through  a County  Court  and not an Employment 
Tribunal. And even if this action were successful any damages  would be nominal  so it 
wouldnt have been considered proportionate to bring the case.
After receiving the legal  assessment, JL withdrew its Employment Tribunal claims. It says 
had Lloyds done what it shouldve when it initially submitted  its legal expenses  claim then JL 
wouldnt have experienced the inconvenience it did by pursuing matters which it later 
materialised was wasted  effort.
JL wants substantial compensation.  It says its sole Director had to spend around 80 days 
furthering its claims for discrimination and breach of contract. So, its seeking  over £53,000 
from Lloyds.
My starting point is the communications  between Lloyds and JL after the claim for legal  
expenses cover was submitted in October  2017.  There was some  to and fro about the 
precise wording of the policy  and whether it provided cover  in the circumstances. And within 
a month  the claim had been declined.
JL then raised a complaint and by February  2018  Lloyds  had provided  a fuller response.  As 
well as indicating the claim  wasnt covered  by the policy, I can also see JL was made aware 
of some of the broader legal advice provided by the insurers  panel solicitors.
This indicated JL could  bring a breach of contract claim against the local authority, but it 
would be difficult to show that it had suffered a loss. And that on first review, the solicitor had 
concerns about  the merits of the discrimination claim.
Although, as we now know,  Lloyds initially incorrectly declined  its legal expenses claim and 
therefore didnt  go on to provide a full legal assessment,  I think theres an argument here 
that JL were put on the path to discovery  about  potentially significant issues with the breach 
of contract  and discrimination claims it was advancing.
I also think its important context that JL made several calls to a free legal advice helpline 
about its situation. Amongst other matters it was seeking support related to how it should 
bring its claims for discrimination and breach of contract. With JL advancing  the idea of using 
the Employment  Tribunal  route for some matters. 
As is normal with these services, the limitations of the advice were set out. And signposting 
to appropriate  professional expertise made. For example, in one of the calls JLs Director  
was told shed need to seek the advice of litigation solicitors.
Given the potential  expense involved in bringing  legal  action the investigator thought most 
companies in JLs situation  wouldve  sought  appropriate legal advice before proceeding. For 
example, to understand the likelihood of success,  the scale  of the potential costs  and the 
quantum of any damages that might  be secured. JLs Director thought  this was an 
unreasonable expectation.  I dont  think it was.
Ref: DRN00711213As JL acknowledged to us, the Directors responsibility was to protect the interests of the 
company. That was the rationale it gave to the investigator about why it continued to pursue 
its cases through Employment Tribunal, even after its claim for legal expenses  support had 
been declined.  The concern was meeting  time limitation requirements.
I understand the Directors responsibility to protect JLs position. And how she went about 
that was a matter  of judgement. But I think theres  a strong argument JL shouldve  sought to 
mitigate any costs and inconvenience in pursuing  its claims.
It had received advice  about needing input from litigation solicitors from the legal advice line. 
And from November 2017, I think it shouldve reasonably  been  working  on the basis it wasnt  
going to secure  support from its legal expenses  policy.
JL estimated the cost of pursuing its tribunal action as over £50,000. Seeking a legal 
assessment wouldve cost a small fraction  of this. And it seems most likely  this wouldve 
confirmed the advice that was eventually forthcoming from Lloyds solicitors,  which  led to the 
withdrawal of JLs tribunal  claims.
So, I think JL failed  to take the action the average  business wouldve considered necessary 
and prudent  to understand the financial  and other implications of pursuing legal action. 
It shouldve sought  appropriate legal advice.
As an aside,  if JL had incurred financial  costs  by seeking a full legal  assessment  after its 
initial insurance claim had been declined, then thered be a strong case  for those  costs  to be 
reimbursed now. Thats because Lloyds  shouldve provided proper support at the outset. 
But it didnt commission that expert  advice.
Having said all of this, I dont think a binary outcome is appropriate for this situation. Theres 
some merit  in JLs argument  that Lloyds handling of its initial claim - which took over a year 
to deal with properly - has caused it some inconvenience. 
Even if JL had acted  in the way I think most businesses wouldve to protect its interests, Im 
not persuaded by Lloyds argument  that its failure  to perform the service it was contracted for 
had no impact. Im mindful that JL was a small company  with only one Director.
Lloyds said the investigator had recommended in the previous linked complaint that it 
should review JLs claim again, and then: 
If the claim is accepted,  then I think Lloyds should  consider any reasonable costs  that 
JL may have  incurred  as a result of the delay.
So, it says that as JLs claim wasnt accepted then it shouldnt  now have to pay any 
compensation for what went wrong. I understand the point  it makes  but I disagree.  Im not 
bound by a recommendation - as part of the informal stage of our complaints process - made  
in a linked  but separate  case. Although, obviously Ive considered  these matters.
The complaint JL have brought to me here is that Lloyds caused it inconvenience  and cost 
because it failed to fairly  assess  a claim made  on its legal expenses insurance when it was 
initially submitted. Lloyds hasnt persuaded me that its actions had no effect  whatsoever.  
And so its right for me to go on to consider how things should be put right.
Ref: DRN00711214putting things right
I now turn to what I think would be a fair award. I thought it might be helpful to start by 
providing a few observations about the detailed impact assessment JL provided to support 
its case for compensation.
A limited company is a separate legal entity from the people who run it. We cant  
compensate directors personally.  And a company cant feel pain or distress.  But we can 
make awards for inconvenience  if it was experienced by the company itself.
Leaving aside  my main finding that JL didnt do enough to understand and mitigate the costs 
associated with pursuing its claims for breach of contract and discrimination, I think  there are 
other significant  problems  with the scope  and scale of the redress  it sought. For example,  
the impact assessment:
-Is based on opportunity costs.  JLs Director was engaged in pursuing its breach of 
contract claim  and dealing with Lloyds and its partners. It argues this meant its 
opportunity to secure and deliver more  work  for clients was impeded. I dont think 
theres enough evidence to show what opportunities were  foregone,  lost or not delivered  
as a direct result  of Lloyds initial mistake.
-Includes activity related to pursuing  its insurance claim and then advancing  its complaint  
when its claim was rejected. Dealing with these matters undoubtedly absorbs time and 
can be inconvenient  for everyone.  But we wouldnt usually award  compensation for this.
-Isnt clear about the opportunity costs that wouldve been incurred in any event because 
of the parallel tribunal action being  taken for discrimination  and breach of contract  by the 
Director in a personal  capacity.
Taking all these matters together Im making an award of £500 to JL for the inconvenience it 
experienced due to Lloyds failure to deal with the initial claim it made  on its legal expenses policy.
My award recognises that responsibility  for incurring the major element of effort to pursue 
the tribunal claims  rests with JL. It failed to mitigate  the impact  on its operations. But the 
award also recognises even if JL had done what it shouldve after its claim was rejected, 
there wouldve still been some extra trouble for it, for example in obtaining legal  advice.
I think this is a pragmatic  and fair outcome  in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im partially upholding  this complaint. 
I require The Society of Lloyds to pay £500  to JL in recognition of the trouble it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask JL to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0071121