K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the service they received when they applied  for a loan with 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC. 
background
In early December 2018 Mr and Mrs W applied for a loan with Tesco.  The loan was referred 
for further  checks.  Mrs W contacted Tesco for an update  and was told that the application  
had been declined and that a letter setting out the reasons would  be sent to them.
Mrs W didnt receive  a letter so she contacted  Tesco again. Tesco told her that the 
application hadnt been declined  but that it had now expired.
Mr and Mrs W re-applied but their application was declined because of existing borrowing. 
Mrs W says that when  they were told that the loan had been declined  they took out 
additional borrowing  on credit cards over the Christmas period.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Tesco.  They were  unhappy that their application had been 
declined because they felt that if theyd been made aware that the application  hadnt  been 
declined in December  they wouldntve taken out additional borrowing on credit cards.
Tesco upheld the complaint. It acknowledged that Mr and Mrs W had been  incorrectly  
advised that their application had been  declined  and offered compensation of £75 for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator agreed that Tesco had made a mistake when it told Mrs W that the 
application had been declined, and when  it failed to send a letter  giving the reasons for 
declining the application. 
The investigator said there wasnt any information  to show  when the application expired and 
felt that Tesco could have done  more to contact Mr and Mrs W for the information it needed 
rather than allow the application to expire.  
The investigator said Tesco should pay a further  £100 to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused by the errors in processing the loan application.
Tesco didnt  agree. It felt the compensation already paid was fair. It acknowledged that its 
error had caused  trouble and upset  but said the financial impact  on Mr and Mrs W as a result 
wasnt something it was responsible for.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the decision.  But they also said that if they hadnt been  told that the 
application had been declined they wouldve waited for the outcome rather than take out 
additional borrowing  on credit cards.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05121132I can see that Tesco referred the loan application  for further  checks and made  attempts to 
contact Mr W for further information.  Tesco has said it was unable  to reach him.  This 
appears to have coincided with Mrs Ws call where  she was advised  the application had 
been declined.  Tesco accepts that this was incorrect information. It also accepts that it failed 
to send Mr and Mrs W a letter when it said it would.
Its clear that Tesco made errors here and that the level of customer  service could have 
been better.  Theres  no information to indicate when the application expired. Nor is there any 
information to suggest that Tesco continued to try and contact Mr W for the information it 
needed after it had spoken to Mrs W and told her the application  had been declined.  Given  
that the application was likely to have been  live at the time when Tesco  spoke to Mrs W, 
and for a period of time thereafter,  I think Tesco should have done more to try and contact 
Mr W for the information it needed.
It seems  more  likely  than not that the application  would  have been approved  if Tesco had 
obtained the information it needed  from Mr W. It also seems  likely that the re-application was 
declined as a result of the additional  credit  card borrowing that Mr and Mrs W took out over 
the Christmas period after being told that the application had been  declined. 
Mrs W has said that they wouldntve taken out the credit card borrowing if theyd thought 
there was a chance of being  approved for the loan.  Whilst Im persuaded by Mrs Ws 
testimony, I cant  be 100% certain  that Mr and Mrs W wouldntve taken out some credit  
cards over Christmas in any event. But Im satisfied that in response to being  told that the 
loan application  had been declined, Mr and Mrs W took out some  extra  borrowing.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W want Tesco to approve them for a loan. However the 
decision to lend is a commercial one and I cant require Tesco to advance  funds.
When considering  compensation, I take into account  the impact  of any error(s).  In this case, 
I think Mr and Mrs W have been  caused  a significant  degree  of trouble and upset  by 
Tescos errors. And I think Mr and Mrs W have borrowed more  on credit  cards than they 
otherwise would have done in response to being  told (incorrectly) that the loan application 
was declined.
Taking all of the circumstances into account  I think the level of compensation offered by 
Tesco should be increased.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0512113