K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Canada  Square Operations Limited  (trading  as egg) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ms credit card account  when he applied  for the card online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. egg disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint because the information  egg gave Mr M about the 
exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. I say 
this because Mr M has told us he was taking medication for a pre-existing and long term 
complaint. I think this would have  mattered to Mr M because this increased the likelihood 
that he wouldnt have  been able to claim on the policy  when he needed it. 
I think Mr M has lost out as a result  of egg's failings in this case,  because  I dont think he 
would have taken  out the policy  if hed been properly informed.
Ive taken into account eggs comments,  including what it said about Mr M providing different 
answers about his medical condition. I think thats  understandable given  the sale was about 
15 years  ago. Weve re-checked  with Mr M that he had the condition when he took out the 
card and PPI, and I see no reason not to accept what he says. So this point doesnt change 
my conclusion.
fair compensation
egg should put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.egg should find out how much Mr M would  have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
egg should then refund the difference between  what Mr M owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, egg can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN02543802B.egg should add simple interest  on the difference between  what  Mr M would have owed  
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.1
C.If  when  egg works out what Mr M would have owed each month without PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, egg should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr M paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mr M 
wouldve owed egg something  on his credit card. The interest rate should be 15% a year 
until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.1
D.egg should tell Mr M what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I require Canada Square Operations Limited  to pay Mr M compensation in accordance with 
the calculation  of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0254380