K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated him unfairly whilst he was in financial 
difficulties and was unable to make the contractual monthly payments(CMPs)  on his 
mortgage. Mr A wants Lloyds to stop its legal action for possession of his property and allow 
him to make  reduced payments of £300 per month  until his financial situation improves.
background
Mr A has a repayment mortgage with Lloyds since 2007. The Terms is 240 months.  In March 
2018 Mr A got in touch with Lloyds to let it know he was out of work and would have  difficulty  
paying his mortgage. At that time the mortgage was up to date and the monthly  payments  
were £672.08. Lloyds agreed to no payments for two months  and said it would review Mr As 
situation at the end of the two-month period.  
In May 2018  Mr A contacted Lloyds after the payment  arrangement had ended and informed 
it that he was still out of work but had some job interviews scheduled so hoped  to be back  in 
employment soon.  Mr A thought he would be able to pay £300  although  the family income 
was only £450  per month from a pension. A hold was placed  on Mr As account and he was 
asked to complete  an income and expenditure form, but Lloyds heard nothing  from him until 
the end of August 2018.
In July 2018, Mr A had a cycling accident and broke  his arm and had complications. Mr A 
contacted Lloyds at the end of August. Mr A said that he couldnt  attend interviews or return  
to work due to his injuries. Mr A explained  that he received an NHS  pension of £470  each  
month and at times his brother would help out his family including Mr As wife and children. 
But Mr A couldnt afford to make the full mortgage  payment  each month. Mr A said he could 
pay £200 each  month  towards the mortgage until his situation improved. At the time Mr As 
account was several  months in arrears and Lloyds agreed to keep the account running as it 
was but said their pre-litigation team would review  the account
In September  2018 Mr A received a letter from Lloyds regarding the arrears on his mortgage 
and it said legal action  might be taken. Mr A contacted Lloyds about this letter  as he believed  
that he had agreed  a payment arrangement of £200 per month at end of August and felt 
their letter was threatening. Lloyds said that an arrangement  had not been put in place and it 
would need Mr A to provide Lloyds with details of his income and outgoings before it could 
look at an arrangement. Mr A at that stage was hoping  to get Universal  Credit  by the end of 
the month.  Lloyds also said that due to the level of arrears on Mr As mortgage it would need 
to receive the full mortgage payment or higher  in order to put an arrangement in place. 
Lloyds agreed  to put a hold on Mr As account for one month to allow Mr A time to send in a 
completed income and expenditure form. As a gesture  of goodwill, it offered Mr A £35 in 
compensation for the length of time he had spent on recent calls discussing his situation.
In October  2018, Lloyds  litigation  team  reviewed  Mr As account  and instructed solicitors as 
the arrears on the mortgage had increased,  no payment arrangement was in place and it 
had not received a completed  income and expenditure form. Mr A spoke with the solicitors 
Lloyds had appointed and discussed entering  into a payment arrangement of £200  per 
month. Lloyds solicitors told Mr A that this wouldnt be possible given the level of the arrears  
and advised Mr A to speak with Lloyds directly about his options.
 
Ref: DRN00529092In November 2018 Mr A with his financial adviser present contacted Lloyds  to discuss his 
options and asked Lloyds if it could consolidate  the arrears on to the mortgage  or switch the 
mortgage to interest  only for the remaining term. Lloyds said it would be unable to do this. It 
said Mr A would need to either clear the arrears on the mortgage or make a lump  sum 
payment and then maintain his monthly mortgage  payments  to avoid any further legal action. 
Mr A wrote to Lloyds raising a complaint about what had happened.  Lloyds responded to his 
complaint and said it would pass the account to its customer  priority team.  Mr A also paid off 
the arrears to avoid  a court order.  Mr A says that at this time he paid Lloyds £3,500 which  he 
had to borrow and would  like this refunded.
In January 2019, the customer priority team contacted Mr A to discuss  his mortgage
and circumstances.  It asked Mr A to provide medical  evidence and a completed  income  and
expenditure form. In March 2019, Lloyds received Mr As medical  evidence  confirming he 
was signed off sick for three months.  Mr A sent further evidence in August 2019 which  
confirmed he was still not fit to work. Mr A continued  to make reduced  payments of £200 
towards the mortgage throughout  the year and a lump sum payment of £3,500 was made in 
December 2019  to reduce his arrears. Mr A tells us that he has since  made a payment of 
£8,8000 in December 2020.  
Mr A contacted Lloyds  in March 2020  to let it know that he remained signed off from work  as 
sick. Lloyds told Mr A that in order for it to stop legal action, he would need  to pay the full 
monthly mortgage payment or more and provide a completed income and expenditure form 
so that a payment plan could be looked at. A 30-day hold was placed on Mr As account. 
Lloyds didnt hear from Mr A and no payments  were  made to his mortgage, so it passed his 
account to its litigation  team  to begin legal action again. No legal action was taken by Lloyds 
as it has currently placed Mr As account  on hold while our service investigated his 
complaint. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she 
didnt believe that Lloyds had done  anything wrong. Mr A disagreed  and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviwed a considerable number of documents and correspondence in relation to this 
complaint. My role is to come to a decision on the complaint that is fair and reasonable. My 
role isnt to maintain an historical record of this complaint, so I wont be referring to 
everything that happened between Mr A and Lloyds over a period of years  but only the most 
relevant issues to my decision. My role isnt not to act as a mediator between Mr A and 
Lloyds. I recognise that things have moved  on since the complaint was brought to us. Mr A 
told us in December/January that he paid £8,800 to his mortgage account and that he hoped  
to start work in April or May 2021. Im pleased that Mr A may be able to do that, and I will 
leave it to him and Lloyds  to deal with the way forward,  but our role is not to monitor an 
account but to investigate  complaints. I note that in Mr As email of 8 January 2021 he puts 
forward proposals for dealing with the arrears in the future, but these  are matters for him to 
put to Lloyds not us.
This complaint relates to Lloyds actions from 2018.  Mr A became unemployed and then 
suffered an injury. In the following few months after he became unemployed Mr A had little 
income. He was unable to pay his CMP as his income was below his monthly payments. Mr 
Ref: DRN00529093A was keen  to pay £200 per month as an arrangement and Mr As first dispute was that 
Lloyds reneged on its acceptance of this arrangement. I note in the background notes that 
Lloyds looked  for an income/expenditure account during these months  but didnt get one. I 
expect the reason for that was to see if such an arrangement  was sustainable. Although  Mr 
A no doubt had the best of intentions it would be difficult afford to pay £200 per month out of 
a £450 per month family  income. But such an arrangement didnt address the arrears  nor 
was there  anything contained  in the proposal  that gave a prospect of how the arrears  were 
to be addressed. So, I dont believe that the refusal of this offer was unfair.
I note that Lloyds in the middle  of November had a discussion with Mr As financial adviser. 
Various options  were discussed such as consolidating the arrears.  Lloyds objection to this 
was that increasing  the monthly payments would make them more unaffordable and that 
seems a reasonable objection. Mr A hoped that he would be able to repay the mortgage 
arrears from money owed to him by his brother but there was no schedule  of expected 
repayments from Mr As brother. 
Lloyds also wouldnt consider transferring to either short term or long-term interest only. 
Lloyds said that it wasnt its policy to do so. Mr A has a repayment mortgage  and Mr A 
agreed to repay the balance by monthly  instalments. The difficulty  with going on interest only 
for a period  is that when  that period eventually ends that the CMP would go up considerably  
and would be potentially  unaffordable. The problem may be postponed but not dealt with. Mr 
A was unemployed since early 2018  and has been  so for three years.  I dont see what 
advantage it would have been to Mr A to be on a short-term interest only when a year later 
he would  have had a substantial increase in his monthly payments which  he couldnt afford. 
So, I dont accept that a short-term interest  only period would have been of assistance  to Mr 
A. Further,  as this was a repayment mortgage,  I dont  believe that I could fairly request  
Lloyds to amend  the type of mortgage  to interest  only. In any case  Mr A had no separate  
repayment vehicle  apart  from the house and he clearly didnt want to have to sell it.
Mr A complains about Lloyds resort  to legal action. Looking at the account as a whole. I can 
see that Mr A was keen  to enter  an arrangement but simply has not had the regular funds to 
do so. That has been the situation now for a period of three  years. Mr A has made monthly 
payments which  were substantially below the CMP and not always  on a regular basis. 
Although his income didnt substantially change, he has made  one-off payments to attack 
the arrears on a number  of occasions.  I note that on one occasion  that this money came 
from a loan that he is to pay back. Whilst Ive no doubt that Mr A wants to pay the mortgage 
the issue is whether  he can pay it or whether he is simply putting himself in a worse place 
financially by trying to do so. Lloyds took a view in 2018 and again in early  2020 that Mr A 
was unable to offer a sustainable arrangement and instructed  solicitors.  Given that Mr A was 
in continuous  arrears over this time period and with no sustainable plan to pay off the arears 
and maintain the CMP, I dont consider that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to do so.  
Although Mr A cleared the arrears before the court date as solicitors  were instructed their 
fees would  be payable, as is normal, by the borrower, Mr A, under the terms of the mortgage 
agreement between Mr A and Lloyds. I noted  that solicitors fees of £649.40 were added in 
February 2019 and Mr A was informed of this on 21 February 2019.  Lloyds has supplied us 
with the invoice from its solicitor which is the amount that is charged  to Mr As mortgage 
account. In my view these fees are properly due. Mr A says that Lloyds also charged a fee of 
£100. Ive had access to Mr As account  statements since January 2018 and there is no fee 
of £100 added to the account so I cant  say that such a fee was added  unfairly.  
Ref: DRN00529094Mr A also asks why Lloyds increased the CMP from £660.68 to £672.08 in January 2018.  
This isnt part of the original complaint and indeed precedes the events which gave rise to 
the complaint.  But, in order  to assist Mr A I asked  Lloyds  about that. It says that in 
September 2016 the CMP was £650.27.  This increased in December 2017  to £664.13 
because of a change in the banks variable rate at that time.as the BoE base rate increased 
in November 2017. The CMP increased  again  in September  2018  to £672.08 due to a 
further change  in the banks variable rate following a BoE base rate rise in August 2018. As 
Mr A appears to have  a mortgage based on the banks variable rate, I cant see that Lloyds 
has done anything  wrong by changing Mr As CMP if the banks  variable rate changes. But 
should Mr A have any further questions about the interest rate applied to his mortgage, 
I suggest he contacts  Lloyds.
I have given this complaint  a great  deal of thought. I hope that Mr As situation has changed 
for the better  and that he is able to come to an arrangement with Lloyds. I urge the parties to 
make contact to see if a sustainable arrangement  is now possible.  Mr A would like contact 
only with the customer priority team but its not my place to direct  which  part of Lloyds should 
performs its functions to be positive and sympathetic  to Mr A. But looking at this complaint 
as a whole  I dont believe that Lloyds  has done anything wrong and so I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0052909