K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the MPPI. 
The policy was taken  out at the time of taking a further advance on their existing mortgage, and 
was taken out to cover  Mr R for accident and sickness. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs R say that the advisor  they met with talked them  in to taking the MPPI, and they 
were led to feel they needed  it. I cant know  what  was said to them at the time, and Mr and 
Mrs R havent said much about this either. So I have  to base my decision on the information I 
have. BoS hasnt been able to provide all the paperwork from the time, but this isnt unusual  
given the date of sale  but it has been  able to show that its sales process at the time 
presented the MPPI as an optional product  and that it gained proper consent to take out the 
policy. I havent seen  anything to suggest  that BoS did anything differently when it sold the 
policy to Mr and Mrs R, so I think its most likely BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt 
have to take out the MPPI  and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
they cant remember this.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check that the MPPI  was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs R about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I think they chose  to take it out - it looks  like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs R paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs R back  some of the 
cost of the MPPI.  I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs R now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN03677582my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0367758