K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Simplyhealth Access turned  down his application  for a new cashplan.  
background
Mr C held a cashplan with Simplyhealth. The aim of the plan was to help with the cost of 
healthcare. He then cancelled  his plan as of 3 February 2019.  
A few days  later, Mr C applied for a new cashplan. Simplyhealth  turned down his application. 
When Mr C first queried this, he wasnt given an explanation. Unhappy  with this, Mr C made 
a complaint. 
Simplyhealth explained that when customers repeatedly claim their full yearly benefit and 
then leave shortly after,  it takes appropriate action. It said it had decided  not to offer Mr C a 
new cashplan because  hed had several plans  in the past, and had cancelled  the plans  after 
claiming under them. Whilst  it wasnt willing to offer him a new cashplan,  it said he could 
reinstate the one hed cancelled. 
However, Simplyhealth  accepted it could  have provided Mr C with a better service when hed 
first queried why his application had been  turned  down. It offered him £50 compensation for 
this. 
Mr C was unhappy with Simplyhealths  response, and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  Simplyhealth  was 
entitled to turn down Mr Cs application  for cover. 
Mr C has asked that his complaint  be referred  to an ombudsman, so the matter has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im aware that Mr C requested to speak  with the ombudsman reviewing his complaint.  
However, after looking at Mr Cs file, I didnt feel this was necessary. However, Id like to 
reassure Mr C that Ive taken into account  his submissions, including  a particularly  detailed  
telephone call that he had with a manager  at our service. 
Mr C is unhappy that Simplyhealth turned down his application for the cashplan. However, 
its up to an insurer who it offers cover to and on what  terms. If an insurer  decides it doesnt 
wish to offer someone cover for any reason, then that is up to the individual insurer  and its 
decision isnt something this service would interfere  with. 
Mr C thinks Simplyhealth chose not to accept his application because he has cost it too 
much money in claims.  
Simplyhealth has already explained to Mr C why it made the decision not to accept his 
application. As Ive said, that decision was up to Simplyhealth,  so I dont intend to comment  
on its reasons. 
Ref: DRN06318642Although Simplyhealth didnt want to offer Mr C a new cashplan, it did offer to reinstate his 
cancelled plan. Mr C says he didnt  agree  to this as Simplyhealth wanted  him to pay the 
backdated premiums. He feels this was unfair  because he says he deliberately didnt have 
medical treatment during  that period as he didnt have cover in place. He says the policy 
terms dont state that backdated premiums need  to be paid when a policy  is reinstated. 
It was up to Mr C if he wanted his previous cashplan to be reinstated.  But it may be helpful if 
I explain that when  insurance cover  has been cancelled by a customer  and is later 
reinstated, I would usually  expect the customer to pay any backdated premiums. 
Consequently, I dont think Simplyhealths request was unfair.
Simplyhealth offered Mr C £50 compensation because a member of its staff wrongly advised 
him that its customer relations department didnt take incoming calls. I think that seems  
reasonable. If Mr C wants to now accept this payment, he should contact Simplyhealth 
directly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0631864