K821x#15summary of complaint
Ms G was injured in an accident at a supermarket. She made  a successful claim against the 
supermarket for her injuries  as a litigant in person. She instructed R Costings Limited (the 
business) to produce a Bill of Costs  for the work  she had done,  so she could claim these 
costs back from the supermarket.
background to complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the Bill of Costs produced by the business. She has complained  that:
1.The Bill of Costs  wasnt presented correctly.  Because of this a penalty  of £1,000.00 
was applied to her costs. She says the Senior Costs Judge also said the Bill of Costs  
was challenging  to read, and the businesss costs  were  too much  because of this.
2.The business took too long to produce the Bill of Costs. Because  of this the court 
applied an interest penalty.
3.The business said they would charge her £2,000.00, but their fees were  more than 
this. They didnt  tell her about this increase, or ask her permission, until after it 
happened.
4.The business told her all of their fees would be paid by the supermarket. This didnt 
happen after the judge said their fees were too much.
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies. The Legal Ombudsman  
investigator found the business had caused  a delay between 2 and 27 September 2016. He 
felt that the company should pay  Ms G £50.00 for the inconvenience this caused. He didnt 
uphold the other complaints.
The business agreed with the Legal  Ombudsman  but Ms G didnt agree. She feels  the 
business should refund her £1,000.00 penalty,  pay the interest  penalty  applied against her 
costs, and increase  the compensation to more than £50.00. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
fees
When Ms G instructed the business  they told her - in writing - of their costs. They told her 
they charged £118.00 plus VAT per hour, and estimated  their total costs  at £2,000.00 plus 
VAT. Ms G agreed to these costs in an email dated  10 August 2016.
The business needed to assess over 600 of Ms Gs emails. While they were aware of these 
emails when they were  instructed, Ms G didnt initially provide them.  Due to the way they 
were stored, Ms G sent them to the business  one at a time, over a period of time.  While the 
business initially said it would cost an extra £250.00  plus VAT to deal with these emails, this 
amount was increased to £489.80 plus VAT. On 30 September Ms G agreed in writing  to the 
increased costs totalling £2,489.80 plus VAT.
Ref: DRN01051412I would expect the business to tell Ms G if, and when, the estimate was likely to be 
exceeded. I would also expect them to tell Ms G why the estimate would be exceeded and to 
tell her what her costs would likely increase to. Because they did this Im not upholding the 
complaint about  the businesss fees.
drafting
On 6 October the business told Ms G that the supermarket paying  their fees will be 
dependent on the outcome of the assessment. The Court will take all factors  into account 
with particular regard  to offers made. The business  has sent in time sheets to show  they 
spent 40.09 hours dealing  with Ms Gs costs, although they only billed her for 21.10  hours.
At the costs hearing the supermarket argued  that the business should  have  been  able to 
complete the work in 15 hours. The supermarket also commented on the quality of the costs  
drafting. The judge  said I think  15 hours  is about right   but this decision was based  on the 
size of the bill, and not the quality of the drafting.
Ms G knew  there was no guarantee that all of the businesss fees would be paid by the 
supermarket. The total fees charged  by the business were £2,489.80 plus VAT (£2,987.76) 
of which  the supermarket was ordered  to pay £1,770 plus VAT (£2,124.00).  This meant Ms 
G was responsible for £863.76. This is not a penalty applied  because of the quality of the 
drafting, but is the difference between what Ms G agreed to pay and what  the supermarket 
was ordered to pay. 
Based on the above, Im not upholding the complaints that the business  told Ms G that all of 
their fees would be paid by the supermarket; or that a penalty was deducted from these fees 
because the Bill of Costs  wasnt  presented correctly.
delay
The transcript of the costs hearing says detailed  assessment  proceedings should  have 
been commenced by ---I think thats  7th of September 2016. Interest disallowed  for the 
period of delay  only, 7th of September 2016  to 18th of October 2016. While this confirms 
that there  was a delay, which the business  accepts, it doesnt  mean  that an interest  penalty  
was applied. These comments refer to a recommendation made to the judge, not what the 
judge actually  ordered.
The transcript shows the judge ordered the supermarket to pay interest,  and doesnt say that 
this interest needs  to be reduced by six weeks because of the delay. As the delay didnt  
cause a penalty difference in the interest awarded, it wouldnt be fair to ask the company to 
pay Ms G six weeks interest on the costs  she was awarded. 
There was a delay  caused by the business, but I cant see that this had any long-term impact 
on the claim - the hearing went ahead and no penalties were applied. Because of this, I dont 
agree with Ms G that the recommended  compensation should  be increased.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Ms Gs complaint about the delay only.  I am in 
agreement with the Legal Ombudsman that R Costings Limited  should  pay Ms G £50.00 to 
compensate her for the limited impact of this delay.
Ref: DRN01051413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0105141