K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) reduced  the credit  limit on his credit  
card without telling him first. Mr S says he needed  to pay for car repairs and Marbles 
decision left him in a difficult situation. 
background
Mr S has a Marbles  credit card and in March 2019 paid off a substantial  part of the balance.  
On 20 March 2019 Marbles wrote to Mr S to say it had reduced the credit limit from £800  to 
£250. 
Mr S says he wanted to use his credit card to make an important purchase but because of 
Marbles decision he was left in a difficult position.  Mr S complained. 
Marbles wrote to Mr S on 2 April 2019  but didnt agree it had made a mistake. Marbles said 
the credit  card terms allowed it to reduce the credit limit and it gave Mr S some  information 
about the situations that may cause it to take that step. Mr S went on to ask our service  to 
look at his complaint.  
An investigator looked at Mr S complaint  and said he thought Marbles was allowed to 
reduce the credit limit. The investigator  thought  Marbles had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view and asked to appeal his complaint so its been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that reducing a credit limit without first telling Mr S made things difficult for 
him. I understand that when  he made a payment to reduce his balance  it was with the 
intention of then using that money to pay for something he needed. But I need to be fair to 
both sides and Ive had to take into account  what the credit card terms say about changing 
the credit  limit. The terms say: 
1 Credit Limit  we will decide  your credit limit and tell you what it is. We may change it at 
any time and will let you know about any change. Details of how your credit limit can be 
changed are shown in section 18.2.  
18.2 We can change  your credit limit under condition 1. We will only reduce  your credit 
limitif we have good reason, for example your circumstances change, there  is a 
significantly increased risk you may not be able to pay or we are concerned  about  fraud  or 
the security of your Card. If we increase your credit  limit we will give you 30 days notice 
The terms say Marbles can change the credit limit at any time and that it will tell a card 
holder when it does  so. The terms go on to give some reasons why Marbles  may reduce a 
credit limit. The terms say that Marbles will contact a card holder before increasing a credit  
limit but not before  decreasing it. Im satisfied  the terms  allow Marbles  to reduce the credit 
limit without notice as long as it contacts the card holder at the time.  And in this case, 
Ref: DRN02695622Marbles wrote to Mr S on 20 March 2019  with that information so Im satisfied its acted in 
line with the terms.
Mr S says Marbles  decision wasnt fair and shows its an irresponsible lender. But Marbles  
has given him an indication of the reasons it will use to decide  whether to reduce a credit 
limit and Im satisfied from what Ive seen  that its decision was reasonable. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S as I know he had intended to use the money hed paid onto his 
credit card for something else. But Im satisfied Marbles terms allowed it to reduce the credit 
limit without telling  Mr S first. As I havent  found any evidence of a mistake by Marbles Im 
not telling  it to take any further action to resolve this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this compliant.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0269562