K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that DSG  Retail Limited mis-sold her a running account credit agreement.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
13 August 2020.  My provisional decision is attached below  and forms part of my final 
decision. 
DSG accepted my provisional decision. Ms H hasnt responded, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont see any reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.  
I think DSG  should have  better explained  to Ms H what the agreement she was signing up 
for was and how it worked.  DSG  should also have provided her a copy  of the agreement at 
the point of sale. But I dont think Ms H has experienced  any financial detriment as a result of 
this. 
I cant consider DSGs actions as a retailer as part of this complaint. But I think the 
compensation DSG has offered  Ms H for its handling  of things is fair compensation for the 
mistakes it made when acting as a credit broker. So, Im not asking it to do anything  else to 
put things right. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right DSG Retail Limited  should  pay
Ms H £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Chris Bick
ombudsman
Provisional decision
Background
In August 2018 Ms H purchased a fridge and freezer from DSG. DSG  acted  as the retailer
and it brokered the finance for the purchase for Ms H. The purchase was financed  through a
running account  credit agreement from a finance provider Ill refer to as C.
The goods were delivered on 1 September 2018. Shortly after delivery Ms H got in touch
with DSG  to raise some  concerns about the way the fridge and the agreement  were sold.
Ms H wasnt able to sort things out to her satisfaction with DSG and there was continued
Ref: DRN02799242communication between both sides during  which  Ms H raised a number of issues she was
unhappy with, she said:
She wanted to buy a particular brand of fridge, but the sales advisor had initially told her that 
brand wasnt  available  on buy now pay later and she should return  in a couple  of days. 
When she did, the fridge was out of stock and she was sold a different fridge  which  wasnt 
what she wanted.
She didnt  know that the finance agreement was for running account  credit and thought  
the purchase was financed on buy now pay later - which  shed seen advertised on line.
She requested  a copy of the credit  agreement  but was sent terms and conditions of the 
account instead.
DSGs delivery drivers  damaged the worktop in her kitchen  she provided a quote  for 
repairs of £276 but C had only agreed to pay her £150.
The fridge made a loud popping noise  when the thermostat switched on/off and didnt keep a 
constant temperature - meaning she had to keep altering the dial to manually adjust the 
temperature.
Food had spoiled because  of faults with the fridge.
Ms H also raised  a number of these  issues with C.
DSG offered Ms H £75 compensation  for its handling of things, paid £150 towards the cost
of repairing/replacing  the worktop and accepted the return of the fridge  and the freezer.
C confirming the balance of the account had been paid in full and it had been closed. It paid
Ms H £50 in compensation  for its handling of things.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with DSG or Cs responses so referred her complaints to this service.
The investigator who looked into Ms Hs complaint about  DSG explained  that our service
could only look at DSGs  actions when acting as a credit broker  and not what  it did when
acting as retailer. So, she said she could  consider Ms Hs complaint that DSG had mis-sold
the agreement. But she couldnt consider the faults with the fridge, the damage caused when
it was delivered or the customer service DSG had provided as a retailer because it wasnt
carrying out a regulated activity when doing these things.
The investigator concluded  that DSG hadnt explained the key features of the agreement to
Ms H and that the agreement  had been mis-sold.  But as DSG had accepted return of the
goods, the agreement had been cancelled before Ms H had made  any payments towards it
and DSG had offered Ms H £75 compensation she didnt  think it needed  to do anything else
to put things  right.
DSG accepted her assessment but Ms H didnt. She said shed never agreed for the
purchase to be financed by C and she only found  out that it was after realising a direct debit
had been set up. She reiterated that she hadnt  received a copy of the credit agreement  until
after shed told DSG and C that she wanted to return the goods and end the agreement. She
also pointed out that documents she received after making a subject access request show
DSG didnt accept return of the good because they were faulty and Cs internal notes  say it
only allowed  her to return  the goods because of her vulnerabilities.
Ms H also explained that she thought  the investigator should have been able to look into the
customer service  provided by DSG  and pointed out that she never  accepted or received the
£75 compensation it offered.  She said shed experienced considerable distress and
inconvenience dealing with C and DSG and the compensation  offered by both businesses
wasnt enough to recognise this.
Because Ms H didnt accept the investigators  assessment the case has been passed to me
to decide.
Ref: DRN02799243my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The running  account credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement, which
DSG brokered. This is a regulated activity. So, I can consider a complaint relating to DSGs
actions in its capacity as the credit broker. I think its also important to point out that in this
decision Im only addressing DSGs actions, Ms Hs complaint about C will be addressed
separately.
As the credit broker, DSG was responsible  for giving Ms H the information  she needed  to
make an informed  decision  about  the credit  she was taking. This is set out in the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Of particular relevance
to this complaint is CONC 4.2.5 which says (but isnt limited to):
(1) Before making a regulated  credit agreement the firm must:
(a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation  of the matters referred  to in (2) in
order to place  the customer in a position  to assess whether the agreement  is adapted to the
customer's needs and financial situation;
(b) advise the customer:
(i) to consider the information  which is required to be disclosed under  section 55 of the CCA;
And
(ii) where the information is disclosed in person, that the customer is able to take it away;
Ms H has said she didnt  realise she was signing  up to a credit agreement.  I dont think this
is likely  as shes confirmed she wanted a buy now pay later agreement  and provided  her
bank details for this to be set up. Shes said that she didnt realise that was what  her details
were being  taken for, but I dont think its likely that she assumed she could order the goods
without either paying for them at the time or agreeing to some form of finance arrangement
to cover the cost.
Ms H has clearly set out that she wanted to purchase the goods on a 0% buy now pay later
agreement. Shes explained  that shes had several  such agreements  in the past which
operated as loans rather than running account  credit.
The agreement in place did provide a buy now pay later arrangement which meant that if the
total cost of the borrowing  was paid back before the end of the term 0% interest would  be
applied. But interest would be applied if the lending  wasnt fully repaid by the end of the buy
now pay later period. I understand  this is similar to the other agreements  Ms H has referred
to. But it did also provide her the facility to spend more  - with a total credit limit of £5,000.  Ms
H says this wasnt explained  to her and she didnt  want this facility.
Ms H has also explained that she wasnt provided  with any of the agreements paperwork at
the point of sale - this doesnt seem to be in dispute.
Im satisfied that Ms H didnt understand at the point of sale that the agreement  was for
running account  credit and DSG  should have made this clear to her at the time.  It was also
required to provide  her a copy of the agreement  to take away, which doesnt  appear to have
happened. So, I think DSG should  have handled things better and didnt fulfil its regulatory
obligations when brokering the agreement.
Ive gone on to consider what wouldve happened if DSG had brokered  the finance  correctly.
Ref: DRN02799244Ms H said she wouldnt have gone ahead with the credit if she knew the full details about  the
agreement. Ultimately, what Ms H said she wanted  and what this agreement offered was
actually quite  similar  apart from that the account she ended  up with offered an additional
credit facility  if Ms H wanted  to use it. So, Im not sure I agree that Ms H wouldnt  have
gone ahead with the agreement  if DSG had given her the full details. But I dont think  I need
to make a finding here either way. Ill explain why.
If I accepted  that Ms H wouldnt have  gone  ahead with the agreement, then what  I would
recommend DSG do to put things right is to put her in the position she would  be in had she
not taken it out. DSG has accepted the return of the goods, C has since cancelled the
agreement and Ms H hasnt  paid anything towards the goods. So, Ms H has already been
put back  in this position.  So, I dont think DSG needs to do anything  else in regard this
aspect of Ms Hs complaint.
I understand Ms H is unhappy because she doesnt  think  DSGs reason  for accepting the
return of the goods was right.  But I dont think the reason DSG accepted her request makes
a difference to what any fair redress would be. So, Im not going to address that further.
Ive also thought  about  DSGs handling  of the matter. As I explained  above, it should  have
provided Ms H a copy of the agreement at the point of sale. I can see that when Ms H visited
in store, she requested a copy again, but the store was unable to print this so forwarded on
her request to C. How C then handled  that request is the subject  of another  complaint  Ms H
has raised with this service and not something I would hold DSG responsible for. The other
service issues  Ms H has raised all seem to be about DSGs  actions as a retailer  rather than
a credit broker. And as I explained above  thats not something I can consider.
I think  DSG Retail Limiteds offer of £75 compensation to settle Ms Hs complaint  is fair and
Im not asking it to do anything  else.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further evidence  I receive  from either side, DSG Retail  Limited should  pay
Ms H £75 to settle her complaint.
Ref: DRN0279924