K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a commercial lending facility Mr and Mrs W held previously with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. The facility was repaid in full in 2018  after the premises that acted 
as security for the facility were sold. Mr and Mrs W believe  Barclays lent them  the money 
irresponsibly in the first place, and treated them unfairly throughout the period the lending 
was operational,  including going back on a promise to stop charging interest in 2014.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex  and the evidence in 
the case is immensely detailed, running  close to 800 pages of documents.  Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repeated 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented,  using my own words and rounding the figures involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of the detail is to 
avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my decision is published.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs W bought  the property (Ill call it H) in 2010, with the original  
commercial facility from Barclays. They  spent  the next two years refurbishing H for use in the 
hospitality sector. The work took longer, and cost more, than anticipated, and the facility  was 
re-financed several  times;  the most recent  of these  was in September  2012,  for around 
£800,000. In 2014, Barclays  transferred management of the facility  to a specialist 
department, and Mr and Mrs W say they were  told at the timed  that the bank would stop 
charging interest.
In 2015, Barclays  appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers to take over the 
management of H; in 2018, H was sold and the commercial debt repaid in full. With interest 
and other  fees (including the LPA Receivers charges), the total amount repaid was just over 
£1m. Mr and Mrs W have  lost all of the savings  they put into the venture  at the outset;  
theyve also lost the home they owned at the time. 
An ombudsman colleague issued  a jurisdiction decision last year that explained why our 
remit to consider the complaint was limited to events  since 7 June 2012. That ruled out any 
consideration of whether Barclays had acted  irresponsible when granting the original facility. 
In practical terms, it meant  our consideration of the complaint on its merits focussed on two 
broad issues; these are:
the fairness or otherwise of the final refinancing in September  2012; and
whether Barclays agreed to freeze  interest  in 2014 and then later changed its mind.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs W have asked for 
the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN07942782my findings
Ill make  some general observations before I set out my findings.  
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  At all times we must 
act within  the powers given to us by our rules; thats  why were confined  to considering 
matters since 7 June  2012, as decided  by my fellow ombudsman. Ive no intention  of 
revisiting my colleagues  decision  on our jurisdiction to consider  this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W are very concerned at what they say was an incorrect and prejudicial finding  
our investigator made regarding the sale proceeds of their former home. The sale took place  
in 2010, well before the time period my remit allows me to consider. I would reassure 
Mr and Mrs W the issue of the sale of their former home, and what happened to the 
proceeds, play no part in my decision  on their complaint. 
Lastly, we have no remit to consider the actions of an LPA Receiver, including  the fees they 
charge; thats  because  once appointed,  Receivers act as the agent  of the borrower, not the 
lender. Putting all of the above  together, my remit to decide this decision is as summarised 
earlier; i.e.
the fairness or otherwise of the final refinancing in September  2012; and
whether Barclays agreed to freeze  interest  in 2014 and then later changed its mind.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as the 2012 refinancing is concerned, in situations like this, a bank can often find itself 
in the unenviable position of being damned if it does and damned if it doesnt. If it doesnt  
provide further  funding, it risks being  accused of failing to support  its customer. If it does 
continue with extra funding, it faces  the charge of, for want  of a better phrase, throwing good 
money after bad.  
A bank  has to decide whether to increase its risk exposure (and the customers  
indebtedness) by making further funds available in the hope  that by doing so, it improves  the 
chances of a favourable conclusion, both for the customer and for it. Thats not always  easy 
to achieve, as the two parties wont necessarily  have the same objectives.
In effect, Im being  asked to second-guess, with the benefit of hindsight,  a decision that was 
made several years ago based on what the decision-makers knew then. Here,  Ive no 
reason to regard  the refinance  as anything other  than a legitimate exercise of commercial  
judgement, intended to help Mr and Mrs W get the refurbishment over the line so that they 
could open for business. That wouldnt have been  seen as a poor judgement  call at the time, 
Ref: DRN07942783and I dont think its fair that I should  undermine the decision  with the benefit of perfect 
hindsight
I turn next to the questions  of interest. The starting point here is that under the terms of the 
commercial loan agreement, Barclays was entitled to charge interest on the loan, and 
Mr and Mrs W were contractually  obliged  to pay it, right up until the debt was discharged; 
that was in 2018. 
Im satisfied that some discussion took place in 2014 about the ongoing charging of interest, 
but Ive not seen anything  in the available evidence that amounted  to a firm promise to stop 
charging interest altogether. I wouldnt expect to, given the contractual  position, and even 
such a promise had been made,  it wouldnt  be binding in perpetuity.  Lenders at all times 
need to be able to respond  to unfolding events,  and can change their minds. I have to 
decide if continuing to charge interest was fair, and theres no reason for me to find that it 
wasnt.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the intensity  with which Mr and Mrs W have 
brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing  in almost everything the bank has 
done (or not done). Thats  a natural, subjective  reaction,  and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things subjectively,  
sometimes taking a step back from the fine detail  and instead focussing  on the broader 
picture. Thats what Ive done.
This project,  for which they had such high hopes, evidently got away  from Mr and Mrs W. 
They clearly  think otherwise, but overall I dont find that this has happened because  of 
maladministration and/or  unfair treatment by Barclays.
my final decision
I dont doubt the last ten years have  been  immensely stressful  for Mr and Mrs W, and the 
situation theyre in now is an unenviable one. But for all of the reasons Ive set out, my final 
decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0794278