K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Archover  Limited  failed to carry out the necessary checks  on the 
borrower which he lent money to through its peer to peer (P2P) lending platform.
background
Archover provide  a loan based  crowdfunding facility  through a peer to peer platform. In short 
its platform allows investors to lend to a business directly.
Mr M lent money to UK EXIM Finance Limited (UKEF) using Archovers platform.  UKEF 
defaulted on repayment and this led to Archover  appointing administrators in respect of the 
company. The information  that has subsequently  come to light indicates that the information  
provided by UKEF about its financial position  at the time Mr M lent money  to it wasnt  
accurate and there is an indication that this was deliberate on its part.
Archover is currently investigating various  avenues for recovery of the money that was 
loaned to UKEF through its platform, including against the bank  for not having  put money 
into the correct account  based on the first charge  Archover had over UKEF assets. It is not 
known at this stage what money  might be recovered by Archover and paid to Mr M.
Archover didnt provide  a final response to the complaint Mr M made. But it did provide a 
response in which it said it had followed the correct  processes and procedures with regard to 
the management of the UKEF  finance facility and that it had carried out all its duties under 
the terms of service that applied.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short he said the following:
He had seen  nothing in Archovers  website or the information  he had been given that 
suggests it provided misleading  risk classifications for any product.
The fact that the lending  was categorised  as secured and insured didnt mean Mr M 
was fully covered  in the event of default  as the information Archover provided made  
clear.
With regard to the lending being  secured  the bank didnt put money in the accounts it 
shouldve done given the first charge that Archover  had but this wasnt  foreseeable.
Archover cant make a claim on the insurance  because this has become invalid 
because it appears UKEFs debtor book was mostly fictitious,  which again wasnt  
foreseeable.
Archover did rely on third party information in deciding to put the borrower  on its 
platform but the third party was one of the largest banks in the UK and it was entitled  
to rely on the information it provided.
Archover physically inspected bills of exchange  and took monthly logs and engaged 
with other parties apart from UKEF, and its level of scrutiny  was reasonable and 
proportionate.
Archover had to carry out its business with due skill care and diligence and pay due 
regard to the interest of its customers and treat them  fairly, which  it did.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He questioned how it could be said that Archover  
had fulfilled its due diligence requirements  when  it hadnt validated  the book of business 
UKEF relied on for borrowing which the investigator said was largely fictitious.  He also 
Ref: DRN06918322queried how Archover had allowed the bank to move money  out of a protected  account  for 
so long. 
As agreement hasnt been  reached the matter has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms concern over the potential loss of the money he lent to UKEF is understandable. He 
chose the secured and insured option  for lending which Archover describes as providing; 
an all assets  charge against the business; secured  finance against accounts  receivable; 
accounts receivable insured against late or non-payment; and credit  analysis,  monthly 
monitoring and controlled bank accounts.  
It goes on to state that the credit insurance  policy usually provides cover of 90% of the value 
of the accounts  receivable and pays out in the case of protracted default or the borrowers 
business fails. So Mr M may well have felt he was reasonably well protected against  
potential losses if UKEF  defaulted on repayment.
However the credit insurance does not insure  the loan or interest payments and doesnt 
guarantee the repayment of lenders capital in the case of borrower default, as the 
information provided to Mr M made clear. So I think Mr M was made aware that the secured 
and insured option didnt  mean he was guaranteed to recover  his money.
Archovers role was as the facilitator of the loan arrangement and as security trustee as 
explained in its terms and conditions which state:
We act as a facilitator  in transactions and in that capacity we may provide tools that relate to 
processing the transaction and as a facilitator or in our role as security  trustee  may collect 
repayment from a Borrower on behalf of a lender  or collect  funds from a Lender to pass to a 
Borrower. We are not involved in any transaction between Borrowers and any insurance  
company..
The terms and conditions  go on to state:
The loan and security documentation are between each Lender  and the Borrowerand 
each part of an actual  or potential contract  between a Borrower and a Lender (including  
without limitation the truth and accuracy  of the warranties and assurances  given,  ability of 
Borrowers to repay  or the ability of Lenders  to lend)  is solely  the responsibility of the 
Borrower and Lender and it is the Lenders  and Borrowers responsibility to assess  these 
matters and the information  provided  and make  their own decision whether to proceed
So I think Mr M had some  obligation  to make  his own enquiries into UKEF before deciding  to 
lend. But this doesnt mean  that Archover had no responsibility with regard to the lenders 
using its platform.  It had an obligation to provide  a general description of the nature and risks 
of P2P lending through its platform.  And where lenders have the choice to invest  in specific  
P2P agreements  it had to provide details of the creditworthiness of the borrower carried out.
Archover has explained that it relied  on the information provided by UKEF about its accounts 
receivable but also that it sort to validate this information by validating some  Bills of 
Ref: DRN06918323Exchange by reviewing  copies from its safe and keeping monthly  logs and photocopies. 
Archover has also said it met with UKEFs accountants to confirm information.  
But despite  this it appears that the information provided by UKEF wasnt accurate  and that it 
deliberately misled Archover  and the insurer and, according to Archover, other P2P lending  
platforms as well about the money  it was owed. This has led to the insurer refusing to pay 
out under  the insurance and Archover  appointing administrators  and considering  legal action 
for recovery of the money owed to lenders.  
Mr M suggests that Archover shouldve verified  the information it was given by UKEF. 
Arguably checking the information provided with UKEFs accountants and looking at BOEs  
was a form of verification.  But even if it wasnt Im not persuaded that Archover had to do 
more to check the creditworthiness of UKEF. 
The rules  that applied to a P2P lending platform at the time stated that a creditworthiness  
assessment must be based on sufficient information  obtained  from a prospective borrower, 
and a credit  reference  agency where necessary but also allows that the information relied 
upon could include  its record  of previous dealings, amongst other  things.
 Even the current rules  that were introduced in November 2018 only require a platform to 
consider whether it needs to verify the accuracy  of the information provided rather  than 
make this a requirement  in all cases.
In the circumstances Im not satisfied that Archover needed to do any more or obtain any 
further information from UKEF or anyone else at the time Mr M loaned money to it in 2016.
I have also considered whether UKEF  shouldve  checked what the bank was doing  with the 
money UKEF paid into the bank. But it had no reason to think  that one of the biggest banks 
in the country  wouldnt take account of the first asset  charge  it had over the assets  of UKEF. 
So I dont  think it was required  to check that the bank  was doing what it shouldve been 
doing with regard to the money received from UKEF.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0691832