K820x#14complaint
Mrs J and her son Mr J complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined  the 
claim Mrs J made on their motor insurance  policy  after the theft of Mr Js car.
background
Mr J found his car was missing from the driveway  in the early hours of 1 April 2018. It hasnt 
been recovered. He gave  Admiral the cars main key and its spare  key. He said the spare 
key had never been used and had been kept in a safe since  he bought the car in July 2015.
In validating the claim, Admiral found  that the spare key Mr J had provided  wasnt for his car. 
Mr J said Admiral must have mixed up the key hed handed over with another key it had 
been given by someone else.  Alternatively,  he said the dealership garage the car was from 
must have  given him the wrong  key. 
Admiral told Mr J it also had concerns about the funds used to buy the car. Mr J had said the 
purchase was partly  financed by the private sale of a car, but had no evidence of it. He said 
it was also financed by cash from the sale of Mrs Js business.  Admiral said it needed  proof.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He said there was nothing in the policys  
terms and conditions to say proof of funds used to buy a car was needed  in order to honour 
a theft claim. He said the police had no concerns  about the incident.  He thought there  was 
nothing to show that Mr J had deliberately provided  Admiral with the wrong key. He didnt 
think it could be ruled out that the dealership garage  gave Mr J the wrong key. He thought 
Admiral should pay the claim and pay Mr J £300 compensation.  
Admiral said the policy  requires consumers to provide  it with all the details it needs about a 
claim. It said it had a duty to pay claims only where it could establish that a vehicle was 
bought with legitimate funds. It said the business  Mr J said was sold in 2015 didnt show a 
change in ownership when it checked company  records. The investigator  still didnt  see why 
Admiral had looked into the cars funding. He thought Mr J had co-operated fully with it.  
Admiral repeated that it had a legal duty to ensure legitimate funds were used to buy a car. 
Although Mr J had sent it a document regarding the sale, it said official company records 
conflicted with it. Admiral said it hadnt dealt with a claim for the car the key belonged to, so 
there had been  no mix-up of keys on its part. And it said it had found  that the key in question 
was last used  in November 2015, several months  after Mr J bought  his car. Admiral asked 
for a review  of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I think it was reasonable  for Admiral to make full enquiries in order  to validate the claim 
before it considered paying it. In a theft claim, its standard for insurers to check that if two 
keys were supplied  with a car, both of them are handed in. If they arent - or if one of them 
isnt the correct key for the car - I think  its reasonable for an explanation to be sought. 
In this case, Mr J said he was given two keys by the dealership garage.  He said the spare 
key was never used.  He said it was locked in a safe at home until he handed it over to 
Admiral. But the evidence shows that the key he provided wasnt  the spare key for his car. 
Ref: DRN06754212Mr J has suggested that Admiral could have mixed  the keys up after he gave it the correct  
spare key. But I think in order for that to be a possibility, hed have to show  that Admiral  dealt 
with a claim for the car the key belonged to. Thats the only reason it would have had the 
key. Admiral says its records show it has never  dealt  with that car. So I dont think  Mr Js 
suggestion is a possibility in this case.
Mr J also said the dealership garage could have given him the wrong key. I think that was 
always unlikely - especially given  that the car and the garage  were high-end. I think  the 
garage is likely to have  been very careful with the keys it held. The garage says it has no 
record of the other car ever being on its premises. And when Admiral had the key read, it 
found the key was used  several  months after the garage sold the car to Mr J. So I think the 
facts show that the garage couldnt have  given him the key he later gave to Admiral. 
Admiral was left with a situation where a car had been  stolen  and one of its keys wasnt 
provided. I think it was reasonable for it to be concerned about that. Whenever a cars key is 
missing, theres always a possibility it may have been used in the theft of the car. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Admiral not to find Mr Js explanation persuasive.  
Admiral also had concerns about the lack of sound evidence of the source of the £19,000 
cash sum used to buy Mr Js car. Admiral  says it has a legal duty to ensure that it doesnt 
facilitate money laundering, so it conducts checks on many  claims. If a claim is worth over a 
certain amount  it asks for proof of purchase. If a claim is over a higher sum than that it also 
asks for proof of finance. And under the policy Mr J must give Admiral  all the information  it 
needs - as long as its requests are reasonable, as here.
Mr J gave Admiral  a copy of a document about the sale of Mrs Js business.  He says some  
of the proceeds  financed  the cars purchase. But I can see why Admiral queried  Mr Js 
evidence. The document he gave it has no business or official heading. It says cash was 
paid to Mrs J by three purchasers. It also says that if the sale doesnt go through she must 
return the money. There seems to be an error  in the text about how much money she would 
then owe. The persons named as purchasers wouldnt  co-operate with Admiral. When it 
checked the official records, there was no change shown in the ownership of the business  in 
2015. And there seems to be nothing to show that Mrs J received  the funds for the business 
or that she transferred cash from the sale to Mr J. 
I think the claim file shows that Admiral  did all it could to assist Mr J and Mrs J to provide 
proof of the funding  for the stolen car. It suggested various ways in which such  proof could 
be obtained (such  as asking banks for old statements). Admiral  also carried  out its own full 
enquiries. It didnt prove possible to show where  the cash  used to buy the car came  from.   
From the evidence Ive seen so far, I think  Admiral had cause to have reasonable concerns 
about the claim made by Mr J and Mrs J. So Im minded to think  it was reasonable for it not 
to pay the claim based on the information  it had been  given.   
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Admiral accepted them. Mr J said 
he knew the keys would  be checked, so he wouldnt knowingly have sent the wrong ones to 
Admiral. He thought  it possible  that when the car was for sale previously a potential  
purchaser could  have asked to see both keys and then swapped one of them. And he said 
Admirals investigator told him that Admiral had mixed  up keys before.  
Mr J said the businesss  new owners wouldnt provide evidence  of the purchase and that he 
hadnt known  he should get proof  of it in advance. Mr J also said Admiral  had recently  told 
Ref: DRN06754213him that charges were  payable.  He said he and Mrs J would accept  a reduced payment for 
the car to resolve the dispute. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its unlikely that a potential purchaser would have asked to inspect both keys. But 
even if that were the case, I think it was for Mr J to ensure that a key wasnt swapped.  
Mr J cant show  that Admiral  mixed-up the keys.  Admirals investigator isnt likely to agree 
that he or she made the reported  statement to Mr J. But in any event that wouldnt show  that 
the keys were mixed  up in this case. In my opinion, no reasonable explanation has been 
given to Admiral by Mr J about the missing spare key.
Neither Mr J nor Mrs J is able to force other  people  to provide evidence. But I think it was fair 
for Admiral to ask for evidence that money  used  to finance the cars purchase changed 
hands around the time of the businesss sale. I think it was reasonable for Admiral to expect 
that there  would be a formal record of that. Alternatively, I think Mr J should have been able 
to show that money  was transferred to him by Mrs J, but he couldnt do that. Nor was he 
able to show that he used cash from the sale of his previous  car to purchase the stolen one. 
I think it was reasonable  for Admiral to have concerns, so in my opinion  it wasnt  
unreasonable for it not to pay the claim. If a claim isnt validated, no part of it can be paid, so 
a reduced payment isnt a possibility. I cant comment  on the charges Admiral made recently  
as that wasnt part of Mrs J and Mr Js original complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0675421