K820x#14complaint
Ms L complained to us that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms L was sold the PPI when she took out an unsecured personal loan in 2002. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld.
Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ls complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy. Looking at her 
circumstances, Ms L met these rules. So I think shed have been  eligible to claim on the PPI 
if she needed to. 
Ms L took out her loan over the phone, and she informed us that she was told she had to 
have the insurance  in order to get funding. Nationwide hasnt been able to send us the 
recording of the phone  call, as its no longer available. Since the loan finished in 2003,  this 
isnt surprising. And clearly its possible,  and indeed understandable, that Ms L might not be 
able to accurately  remember everything that happened from sixteen years ago. Indeed she 
told us that she was no longer able to recall  how the sale took place. 
So in considering my decision, Ive taken into account how long ago this sale was. However, 
a copy of Ms Ls loan agreement is available. Theres a section relating to the PPI policy and 
its headed; 
Optional  Credit Insurance.  
Ms L signed the form, and I dont think its likely that having read it she would have thought  
that the policy was compulsory.  I think  shed  have understood that she could turn down the 
PPI if she wanted  to. Overall Ive carefully considered what Ms L has told us, but Ive 
concluded its most likely that Nationwide gave  her a clear choice and so Im not upholding 
her complaint on this basis.
Next, Nationwide  didnt  recommend the policy to Ms L, so it wasnt  required  to make sure 
that it was suitable for her. But it was required to provide her with enough information about  
Ref: DRN05610102the policy so she could make the decision for herself about whether or not to take it out. 
Ms L told us that shes unhappy about  the PPI because she doesnt  think  she needed  it. 
Ive considered the possibility that Nationwide didnt  point  out the main things the policy 
didnt cover. But given her circumstances Ms L doesnt appear to have been affected  by any 
of those things.  And if Ms L had cancelled her policy before the end of the loan, she would 
have received a pro-rata refund. So I dont think its likely that clearer  information  about 
these points would have dissuaded  her from taking out the PPI. 
Ms L told us that it was her priority to keep her costs down.  However the cost of the policy 
was shown on the loan agreement. This set out the premium (which  was £60.19),  the 
interest payable on the premium (which was £2.45), the total cost and the amount of the 
monthly payment.  So I think its most likely that Ms L would have understood how much  she 
was going to pay, and with this information  she still decided  to take out the PPI. 
Finally, Ive considered  the possibility that Nationwide didnt give Ms L clear information 
about the monthly benefit payable under the policy. Ms L told us that if she was too ill to 
work or was made redundant, she would have  been entitled to sick pay or redundancy pay 
for between  three and six months. But the PPI would have paid out for the term of the loan if 
she was off work sick. And it also would have covered the repayments  for up to 12 months if 
she lost her job. I dont think its likely  that clearer information about this would have 
dissuaded her from taking out the policy. So having considered  all the available  information I 
dont require Nationwide to put anything  right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0561010