K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that a finance agreement she entered  into with Aprite GB Limited,  trading  
as West Way Nissan  (Aprite) was mis-sold to her.
background
Miss T took receipt of a new car in November 2015. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  that was brokered by Aprite. The finance agreement stated that the 
annual mileage limit was 6,000  miles.
Miss T says that she told Aprite  that her annual  mileage  would  be about 18,000 to 20,000 
miles per year but they assured her that if she set the finance agreement  up for less miles 
and went on to part exchange the vehicle for another of their cars at the end of the 
agreement; she would  not have  to pay any excess mileage. So she was disappointed at the 
end of the term to find that Aprite asked her to pay an excess mileage charge and were 
adding that on to the price of the new vehicle she was seeking  to finance.
She explained that she had previously had a similar finance arrangement  and had been 
similarly advised by Aprite. She said that although the agreement had been set up with an 
annual 5,000 mile limit she had completed a significantly  higher mileage  and had not been 
asked to pay the excess mileage as shed exchanged the car for another  when it came time 
to hand it back.
Aprite disagreed  with Miss T. They said the correct sales process had been  adopted  and the 
contract clearly held Miss T responsible for any excess mileage charges.
So Miss T referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided an opinion. He 
was persuaded  that it was most likely  Miss T had taken out the agreement on the basis that 
the excess mileage would not be charged  if she was prepared  to part exchange  for another 
vehicle at the completion of the deal.  He noted that shed completed  significantly more 
mileage than was allowed  under  her previous agreement and he was persuaded she would 
probably have  thought  the same principle  would apply to this deal. He understood that 
Miss T had subsequently taken out another  finance agreement through another dealership 
as she was unhappy to pay the excess mileage charge on top of the price  of the car Aprite 
had found for her. So he thought the fairest resolution would be for Aprite to refund the 
excess mileage charge and pay her £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
shed experienced.
Aprite didnt agree with the adjudicators view. They said Miss T hadnt  taken  out a new 
agreement as she hadnt been happy with the monthly payment theyd suggested. They  said 
the new monthly payment hadnt  included  the excess mileage thatd now been  charged  as 
she didnt accept the new deal. They said that it was only when Miss T rejected that part 
exchange option that they applied the excess mileage charge. They therefore asked for a 
final decision  from an ombudsman.
my finding
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09121292I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Aprite so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  
misrepresented to Miss T. So if Miss T was told something that was wrong when the deal 
was established  and if I thought she would not have  proceeded with the deal if she wasnt 
told this, I would think it reasonable  to hold Aprite responsible and ask them  to take some 
action.
My first consideration is the finance  agreement and its clear that this requires Miss T to 
make a payment  for every mile she travels  in excess of the mileage limit of 6,000 per year.  I 
think its reasonable to expect a consumer to have reviewed the terms of the contract before 
signing up to it and I think in these circumstances its reasonable to suggest that Miss T 
would have been aware of the limit and potential for charges before she signed up for the 
deal.
However, Im persuaded that its most  likely she had been told the excess  mileage charges 
would not apply if she part exchanged  for another vehicle at the end of the contract. I say 
that because I can see that she wasnt charged excess mileage on her previous agreement  
when she part exchanged  at the end of the term. Her new agreement was for the same term 
but was set up for a similar mileage  and Ive not been provided  with a satisfactory 
explanation as to why that would be if it was clear  Miss T was completing a significantly 
higher annual mileage. Im therefore  persuaded by Miss Ts explanation that it was because 
it would  be irrelevant if she part exchanged.
Miss Ts annual mileage has been  consistently much higher than the mileage limit stipulated 
in the two agreements weve considered. So nothing appears to have  changed in her 
personal circumstances that would have  necessitated a reduction in her annual mileage 
limit. I think  its therefore most  likely  that Miss T was always expecting  to complete 18 to 
20,000 miles per year and in the absence  of any other explanation I think its most likely she 
was encouraged to sign up for the finance agreement with a 6,000 mile limit because  she 
believed excess mileage  charges would not apply if she part exchanged.
And I think,  had she known the charges would have been applied she would  probably  not 
have accepted the finance agreement as I think its reasonable to suggest the monthly 
payments would have  been quite a bit higher.
Aprite have suggested  that the mileage charges were only applied  when Miss T decided  not 
to accept their part exchange offer. Im not persuaded that was most likely to have been the 
case. I say that because:
Ref: DRN09121293I find Miss Ts testimony persuasive.  I think its clear shes  been surprised by the 
dealerships position  on this and I dont think that would not have been  likely to be the 
case if the monthly cost hadnt been  inflated  by the excess  mileage cost;
Miss T had already had a contract for two similar car models. I think its therefore 
most likely she would have wanted  to proceed with a similar agreement for a similar 
car. The fact she went elsewhere, would  I think support the view she was dissatisfied 
with the offer that had been made by Aprite. If it was a like for like offer I dont think  
Miss T would have been likely  to have walked away from it;
Aprites final response letter  didnt mention that the new deal theyd offered Miss T 
didnt include  the excess  mileage charge and I think its more likely than not that it 
would have  if that were  the case.
So overall, Im persuaded that this finance  agreement was misrepresented to Miss T and in 
the circumstances I think  Aprite  should take some further action. The agreement  has now 
ended and the car has been handed back but Miss T has been inconvenienced by their 
actions and I think it would be fair to compensate  her for this. In the circumstances I would 
agree with the adjudicators suggestion  that she is paid £250 in this regard.
It would also be fair to waive (or refund if its been  paid by Miss T) the excess  mileage 
charge. As Im persuaded that Miss T was led to believe  this would not have been called for 
if shed part exchanged the car and Im also persuaded  that she had probably tried to part 
exchange the car only to be given an inflated and unacceptable arrangement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Aprite  GB Limited to:
refund  Miss T the excess mileage charge if its been paid or waive the charge  if it 
hasnt been paid
pay Miss T £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  shes  
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0912129