K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) did not protect his share dealing  account 
(SDA) and his shares  from fraud  committed by his late partner between 2015  and 2017.
background
I issued a detailed  provisional decision (PD) for this complaint  on 22 March  2019. A copy is 
attached below, so I will not repeat its contents.  This decision is to be read in the context of 
the PD and abbreviations used in this decision are as defined  in the PD. Both parties  were  
invited to comment on the PD. HSDL accepted it but Mr J did not. He made detailed and 
focused submissions  about  the grounds  on which he considers the PD to be flawed. In the 
main, Mr J said:
Acceptance within the PD that he did not make the relevant transactions,  between  
June 2015 and January 2017,  and that they appear to have been fraudulent leads to 
the inescapable conclusion that he has been a victim of online fraud.  [Point 1]
There is insufficient evidence to support the PDs conclusion that the application and 
activation process for the online service (within  his SDA) adequately minimised  the 
risk of fraud.  The PD relies, wrongly,  on HSDLs evidence about what would have  
happened in the process, without evidence of what actually did happen.  As such,  the 
PD relied  on speculation. [Point  2]
My assertion in the PD, that HSDL  was not supposed to know  that he was not 
involved in the application for the online service or that correspondence sent to him 
and related to the application had been intercepted by his late partner, was 
insufficient and irrelevant. He does not suggest  that HSDL had such knowledge and 
the point is that HSDL  did not do enough to verify that he was involved in the 
application  such as giving him a telephone call, which it did not do. [Point  3]
The PD applies the wrong test in determining whether  (or not) the absence of 
signature checks in HSDLs share conversion  process met the requirement in CASS  
6.2.2R for adequate  arrangements to minimise  the risk of fraud. The question  is not 
whether (or not) such absence made  the process  insecure, the question is whether 
(or not) HSDLs wilful  omission of such checks from the process was adequate to 
minimise the risk of fraud.  The PD accepts that signature checks would have added 
another layer  of security so I could  not reasonably conclude that the risk of fraud was 
the same  with or without signature  checks.  [Point 4]
My conclusion  in the PD that the Registrars satisfaction with the completed and 
signed CREST forms enabled HSDL to reasonably infer that identity  was not doubtful  
is flawed. There is no evidence to suggest HSDL had reason to expect  the Registrar 
to be familiar with his signature and it is more likely  (than  not) that the Registrar  relied  
upon HSDLs verification  of identity  not the other way around.  In support of this 
point, there is evidence of HSDL  performing  such a verification  role for the benefit of 
the Registrar. [Point 5]
The PDs finding on the matter  of HSDLs sales process relies mainly on the premise  
that its process for the activation  of the online  service included  adequate security and 
identification measures   so the absence of further  security checks  at each point of 
share dealing  does not appear unreasonable. If, as he asserts, that premise is wrong 
it follows that the PDs conclusion about the sales process cannot stand  and the 
same applies  to the PDs  conclusion  about  HSDLs process for the remittance of the 
sales proceeds to NBA2. [Point 6]
In addition, the PDs conclusion about  the sales process is flawed because  the wrong 
test was applied.  I should not have asked myself whether HSDL  had acted 
Ref: DRN07905752reasonably or unreasonably in the process.  Instead, I ought to have  focused  on 
contractual provisions  (and a guarantee from HSDL) which entitled him to be 
reimbursed for any loss incurred as a result of fraud, so long as he had not been 
grossly negligent  or fraudulent. There is no finding in the PD that he was grossly 
negligent or fraudulent and the PD  rejects HSDLs assertion that [he] was in 
breach of [his] obligation to safeguard [his] assets   Therefore  his entitlement  to 
reimbursement for the loss incurred  from fraud  committed in the SDA ought to have  
been upheld. The same test ought to have been  applied in the PDs treatment of 
HSDLs process for the remittance of the sales proceeds to NBA2. [Point  7]
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart  from the findings  and conclusions in the PD. I incorporate those findings  
and conclusions into this decision. I address Mr Js key points  below.
Point 1
I do not consider  it an inescapable conclusion  that Mr J has been a victim of online fraud and 
I do not consider  that the PD stated or suggested this. For the sake  of clarity, I also do not 
suggest that he is not a victim of online fraud. The point, which  was expressed in the PD, is 
that this question could not properly be determined  not with the level of evidence available.  
In the PD I said  The transactions between June 2015 and January  2017  (as summarised 
above) appear  to have been fraudulent, but I do not consider  there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that Mr J was or was not aware of them specifically at the time. As he says, the 
matter is subject to a police investigation  and I consider that the police are better placed to 
investigate and determine what happened . For the purpose of his complaint, my approach is 
based on the balance of evidence suggesting  that Mr J did not make the relevant 
transactions. [my emphasis]
I consider that the matter of whether (or not) Mr J was or was not aware of the transactions  
at the time  which arguably relates to whether (or not) he has been a victim of online fraud 
 remains a question  that I cannot  properly determine with the level of evidence available.  I 
am not persuaded that he has presented anything in response to the PD to show otherwise.
Point 2
Some uncertainties and some lack of full facts were  and remain inherent within  the issue  
about the application for and activation of the online  service within  the SDA. This, arguably,  
should be expected given  that Mr Js position is that he was not involved in it and given  that 
it is impossible  to take evidence from his late partner, who he says applied for the service, 
activated it and intercepted  communication about  it. 
In this context, there was not as much  evidence of what  actually happened  in the application 
and activation  process  as would have been  ideal.  Nevertheless, I am satisfied  that there was 
sufficient evidence about what probably  happened  in the process  and it is within the remit of 
this service to determine issues and complaints  on the balance  of probabilities.  The PD 
relied on this balance of probabilities, not speculation.  Given his assertion that he was not 
involved in the process,  it would  not appear  that Mr J is in a position to competently dispute 
HSDLs description or to suggest  that something  different  actually happened. 
Ref: DRN07905753Point 3
I retain  the view that HSDLs description of the application and activation process for the 
online service probably  reflects what happened in that event. I also retain the reasons given 
in the PD as to why I consider that the process  adequately catered for security/safeguarding 
and why, on balance,  I do not consider that HSDL should have been suspicious about the 
application for the online service. This was the context in which  the PD said HSDL was not 
supposed to suspect the application or the interception of correspondence.  Primarily, the 
provisional finding was that the process included adequate safeguarding. 
I note Mr Js point that a telephone call to him, at the time,  could have stopped the process.  
This might or might not be a valid point, but my conclusion remains that the process 
adequately catered for security. Like the matter of signature checks in the conversion 
process, I am persuaded that a telephone call in the application and activation process 
would have added another  layer of security  but that does not mean  its absence  made the 
process insecure   or, put another way, its absence does not automatically mean that the 
process did not have  adequate arrangements for security.
Point 4
The PD does  not say or suggest that the risk of fraud in the conversion process was the 
same with or without  signature checks.  It is reasonably clear  within  the PD, as quoted by 
Mr J in his submissions, that whilst  I noted  such checks  could have added  another  layer  of 
security I also said that their absence did not make the process insecure. 
Mr J says my reference to insecurity of the process led me to the wrong  question   or was 
the wrong question   however I consider that the alternative he has proposed is essentially 
the same  point (or question) presented  in a slightly different way. His reference  to HSDLs 
deliberate choice not to apply signature  checks is equal  to the PDs reference to such 
checks being absent and his reference  to adequately minimising risk in the process  is 
matched by the PDs treatment of CASS 6.2.2R in the matter,  including where I said  I 
accept signature checks could have added another layer of security but, overall and on 
balance, I am not quite  persuaded that their absence  made  the process insecure (in the 
context of CASS 6.2.2R) or means  HSDL  did something wrong in the conversion  and 
deposit process. [my emphasis]
Point 5
It might be helpful to quote  the part of the PD which Mr J addresses  under this point. I said  
It cannot be ignored that the overall conversion and deposit process involved the Registrars 
of the shares  and submissions, to them, of the completed and signed CREST transfer forms. 
The conversions would not have completed  unless and until the Registrars agreed to change 
the legal  (not beneficial) ownership  of the shares  from Mr Js name to HSDLs  nominee  
name  which  then aids the deposit of the digital holding, on a nominee  basis, in Mr Js SDA. 
In this context, I consider  it adequate  for HSDL to have  taken  a composite view on 
identification in the process  whereby it did not rely as heavily  on the signatures (and did not 
apply signature  checks) as it has been  said it should  have. An inference that HSDL would 
reasonably have drawn from the Form As details matching the SDAs and from the 
Registrars being satisfied  with the completed and signed CREST transfer forms in order to 
complete the conversions, is that identity  was not doubtful.
Ref: DRN07905754The PD did not suggest that HSDL had grounds  to expect the Registrar to be familiar with 
Mr Js signature. It reflected the plausibility of HSDL  reasonably inferring from the elements 
of the overall conversion process that identity was not doubtful. I am not persuaded that the 
idea of HSDL having some reliance on the Registrars part of the process and the idea of the 
Registrar having some  reliance on HSDLs part of the process are mutually  exclusive. Both 
could have been the case. 
I acknowledge Mr Js points about  specific evidence of HSDL clarifying identification, to the 
Registrar, within a CREST  form and about  evidence showing that HSDL checked  the 
CREST forms  against the SDA before they were  sent to the Registrars. The latter  point does 
not appear to be in dispute. HSDL does  not appear  to have denied its role in relation to the 
CREST forms  prior to their submissions to the Registrar. The former point relates to a 
specific event where  HSDL clarified that reference to the initials of Mr Js name  in the 
relevant CREST  form matched his full name  as registered in the SDA. Essentially, this too 
appears to relate to the matter of HSDL checking  the CREST  forms against the SDA.
Point 6
As addressed above, the key points that have  been made by Mr J about the online service 
application and activation process  and about the conversion process  have not been enough 
to show that the PDs findings on both processes  were flawed. I am satisfied that the PDs 
findings in these respects are reasonable and supported by the balance  of 
probabilities/evidence. Mr Js argument is that if, as he asserts, those findings are flawed  
then the same applies to the findings  about  the sales process and the process for remittance 
of sales proceeds to NBA2  because the latter is based on the former. However,  overall 
and on balance, I retain the view that the former (findings) are fair and reasonable.
Point 7
This point  features Mr Js argument about  the reimbursement (for loss caused  by fraud) he 
says he was contractually entitled to. As he says,  qualification for this entitlement  required 
that he was not fraudulent or grossly negligent  in the matter.  He goes on to say that there is 
no finding in the PD that he was grossly negligent or fraudulent and that the PD rejects 
HSDLs assertion that he was in breach of his contractual  obligation  to safeguard  his assets.
As I quoted, under Point  1 above, I have  not determined whether (or not) Mr J was a victim 
of fraud. Mr J is correct. The PD does  not find that he was fraudulent.  However, with 
absolutely no discourtesy intended towards  Mr J, it must be said that the PD also does not 
find that he was not fraudulent. In straightforward terms, it is a matter  I have not addressed 
and do not address due to insufficient  evidence.
HSDLs submissions to this service have  featured a somewhat vehement argument  alleging  
that Mr J breached his contractual obligation  to safeguard his SDA. He disputes the 
allegation. In the main, the PD said  There is insufficient evidence to determine  HSDLs 
assertion that Mr J was in breach of his obligation to safeguard his assets, at his end, 
especially with regards  to safeguarding information about his assets  and account.  Falling  
short of the alleged breach, I provisionally  conclude that Mr J ought reasonably to have been  
more aware (of either what was going on with the SDA or, at least,  of matters in general  that 
could have indicated  what was going  on with the SDA) than he says he was.  
The PD did not reject HSDLs assertion  that Mr J breached his obligation to safeguard the 
SDA. Akin to my consideration of the matter of his awareness or unawareness of the alleged 
Ref: DRN07905755fraud  which  HSDL also questioned  I also considered that the allegation  that Mr J did not 
safeguard the SDA could not be determined due to insufficient evidence. My provisional 
findings did say that Mr J ought reasonably to have been more aware of matters  in or related 
to the SDA than he says he was. I did not and presently do not find that there was/is  enough 
evidence to extend this finding  any further, but that does not constitute a conclusion that 
rejects HSDLs assertion.
There was and is not a basis on which to consider the contractual entitlement  Mr J asserts.  I 
have not made the findings   on fraud  and gross  negligence  which are primarily required in 
order to address the entitlement further, because I do not have  enough evidence  to do so.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in the provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Js 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr J says Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) did not protect his share dealing account (SDA) 
and his shares from fraud committed by his late partner between 2015 and 2017.
background
Mr J opened the SDA in 2005 and registered a nominated  bank account  (NBA)  for the purposes of 
funding the SDA and making withdrawals from it. Thereafter he received six monthly statements and 
valuations for the SDA every  April and October.  This continued until late 2014 around when the SDA 
was registered for HSDLs online service. The SDA was based on this online service thereafter and 
HSDL says registration for this would have taken place (and would have been activated) following an 
Ref: DRN07905756application process  (featuring a personal  reference number and identification information)  and then an 
activation process (featuring a password that is sent to the account holder  partly by email and partly 
by post).
Prior to converting the SDA to the online service, Mr J changed the NBA.  He did this in 2010 and the 
new NBA (NBA2) was (and remained, until 2017) a bank  account he held jointly with his late partner. 
The email address used for setting up the online service belonged to his late partner.  According to the 
SDAs records,  the following transactions then took place between 2015 and 2017 [all sale proceeds 
appear to have been  withdrawn to NBA2.]:
In June 2015,  a holding of Mr Js HSBC shares was converted from share  certificates (which were in 
his possession) into a digital holding  within  the SDA; the holding was also sold in June and the 
proceeds were withdrawn  in the same month.
In July 2015,  another holding of HSBC  shares and a holding of Lloyds Banking Group shares were  
converted in the same  fashion; they were sold in the same month and the proceeds were  withdrawn  
in August.
In September 2015, another holding  of HSBC shares and a holding of BT Group shares were  
converted in the same  manner; they were  sold over September and October  and the sale proceeds 
were withdrawn over the same period.
In December 2015, another holding of BT Group shares were converted in the same manner;  they 
were sold on different dates between December  2015 and March 2016; the sale proceeds were  
withdrawn over the same  period.
In March 2016, another holding of Lloyds  shares were converted in the same fashion and was sold,  
on different dates, in April; the sale proceeds were  also withdrawn in April.
In May 2016,  another Lloyds  holding was converted, it was sold in the same month and the sale 
proceeds were withdrawn  in the same month.
In June 2016,  more holdings of shares in HSBC  and Lloyds were converted, in addition to a holding of 
shares in SSE; they were all sold on different  dates between June  and November 2016 and the sale 
proceeds from them were  withdrawn over the same period.
Between December 2016 and January  2017, two more certificated holdings (one in each month) of 
HSBC shares were converted  to digital  holdings in the SDA, each was sold a few days after each 
conversion and the proceeds  were  withdrawn a few days  after each sale.
Mr J says these transactions were fraudulently made by his late partner who passed away in 
December 2017  after which, he says, he learnt she had concealed a chronic gambling  problem from 
him for years previously and had committed a number  of fraudulent acts seemingly to fund her 
gambling. Mr J says he had no involvement  in or prior knowledge of the transactions in the SDA 
between June  2015  and January 2017. He also says that he discovered, after his partners passing, 
other fraudulent  acts she had committed which he was previously unaware of  including a credit card 
in his name taken out in 2010 and the surrender of their joint endowment policy achieved by her 
forgery of his signature. He says all of these matters have been reported to the police and are subject  
to their investigation.
Mr J submitted his complaint to HSDL on the basis that it had failed to properly safeguard  his SDA 
and his shares, and that its failure facilitated the fraudulent transactions  and the financial loss (to him) 
that has resulted from them. He noted that signature checks ought  reasonably  to have been applied  
to the transactions  which would  have  disclosed the fraud  and the failure or absence of such 
checks contributed significantly to the fraud. HSDL disagreed and did not uphold the complaint. In the 
main and to date, its position  is that:
Ref: DRN07905757The matter involves three  distinct processes   the conversion of the shares, the sale of the 
shares and the withdrawal of the sale proceeds.
It was not required to apply  signature checks for the share  conversion exercise.  The process  
involved no change  of beneficial ownership,  just a conversion of share certificates in Mr Js 
name into digital shares within the nominee service of his SDA (which was also in his name). 
The checks applied for the conversion  exercises were to verify that the identity details  in the 
applications and on the share  certificates matched the identity  details on the SDA. The 
CREST transfer form used in the process was for the benefit of the Registrars of the shares  
(and was forwarded to them). The Form A form used  in the process was for its 
administration, the form requires a signature but that is not for the purpose of a signature 
check.
The core issue in terms of the sale of the shares is the registration  of the SDA for the online 
service in 2014. The registration and activation process at that time was designed to apply a 
secure context for the activation and continuing use of the online service. This was based on 
the password  which was given in separate parts also for the purpose of security  and upon 
Mr Js contractual  obligation to keep his details for the SDA secure  and confidential.  Two 
password changes took place  in 2016 that followed  the same process  of being  sent in 
separate parts. With such a foundation and in the context of share  dealing (buying and 
selling) being  a time sensitive activity,  the online service was meant to be fluid in its operation 
and did not require signature checks for online sale instructions. Online sale instructions were 
deemed to have  been  genuinely  made  by the account holders, as they would  have logged on 
with their secure password (and details) in order  to place such  instructions. 
At the point of withdrawing money from the SDA the relevant risk is that of transferring money  
to an account that has not been  nominated by the account  holder. In Mr Js case, withdrawals 
were made to the jointly held account that he nominated in 2010.  A jointly held bank account  
could be a nominated  account and he elected to nominate  such a bank account. Overall, it 
had no indication that the transactions were the subject of fraud and its structures and 
arrangements adequately catered  for the protection  of the SDA and its assets from fraud.  In 
this respect, the question that arises is whether  (or not) Mr J upheld his role in protecting and 
keeping secure his details about the SDA. Evidence suggests that he did not and that his 
failure in that respect  caused  the alleged  fraud.
The matter was referred to this service and considered by a senior investigator. The parties made  
submission before and after her view. Overall,  her conclusion was that:
Mr Js complaint should be upheld, he should receive £200 for the trouble  and upset  caused 
to him and he should receive redress (with interest) for the financial  loss arising from the 
fraudulent transactions.
HSDL did not do quite  enough to safeguard Mr Js SDA and shares. In particular, it appears 
more likely  (than not) that the fraudulent attempts to convert the shares, sell them and 
withdraw the proceeds would have been identified  and stopped  early if HSDL  had applied a 
signature checking process  which it did not. Such a process ought  reasonably to have been 
applied. Evidence supports the conclusion that a sample of the signatures used for the 
fraudulent transactions were notably different to Mr Js real signature.
The assertion or suggestion that Mr J is partly or mainly at fault for the fraudulent 
transactions, based on the notion  that he did not keep his SDA details secure  from his late 
partner, is unreasonable. He kept his details secure within his home and that was reasonable 
to do. He was not aware that his late partner  who shared his home  had somehow 
accessed the information, intercepted  letters from HSDL and misused the information for the 
fraudulent transactions.
Mr J accepted this outcome but HSDL rejected  it and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN07905758I understand the basis (and logic) on which the investigator  concluded her findings. However,  in equal 
measure, I also understand the basis (and logic) on which  HSDL  continues to dispute responsibility 
for the fraudulent transactions  and continues  to dispute the investigators overall  view. On balance, I 
am not quite  satisfied that HSDLs responsibility  for the fraudulent  transactions has been sufficiently 
established. My provisional conclusion is that Mr Js complaint should not be upheld.
On a preliminary basis, I provisionally conclude  the following:
Mr J opened the SDA in 2005 and he received mailings of six monthly account 
statements/valuations up to 2014 when they stopped because of the online service.
In 2010 he changed, within the SDA, the NBA to NBA2. He was entitled to nominate a jointly  
held account  for this purpose and no inference of fault  for nominating  a bank account 
shared by his late partner  arises from this. In the absence of evidence  to the contrary, it 
cannot reasonably be said that he should have foreseen what  he later learnt  about his late 
partner. By the same token and because NBA2  was expressly nominated by Mr J, HSDL  was 
entitled to consider remittances to NBA2 as legitimate remittances and was not required to 
question them.
The transactions between June 2015 and January 2017 (as summarised above) appear to 
have been fraudulent, but I do not consider there is sufficient evidence to conclude  that Mr J 
was or was not aware of them specifically at the time. As he says, the matter is subject to a 
police investigation  and I consider  that the police  are better placed to investigate  and 
determine what happened. For the purpose of his complaint, my approach is based on the 
balance of evidence suggesting that Mr J did not make the relevant transactions. Evidence in 
this respect is the notable  difference between the signatures used for the transactions and Mr 
Js actual  signature. I accept, for this reason,  that he has grounds to say he did not make  the 
transactions. 
There is insufficient evidence  to determine  HSDLs  assertion that Mr J was in breach of his 
obligation to safeguard  his assets,  at his end, especially with regards  to safeguarding  
information about  his assets  and account.  Falling  short  of the alleged breach,  I provisionally 
conclude that Mr J ought  reasonably to have been more aware (of either what was going  on 
with the SDA or, at least, of matters  in general  that could have indicated what  was going  on 
with the SDA) than he says he was. 
He should have noticed  the periodic statements  had stopped. They appear to have been  sent 
to him consistently for around eight years, then for around two and a half years he received 
nothing. Their absence in that period should have been noticed. 
The same  could be said about the dividend receipts  that would have stopped following the 
sales of his holdings.  The sizes of the holdings  were  not insignificant and the same  would 
arguably have been the case for the dividends from them. Mr J ought to have noticed,  before 
2017, that he was no longer  receiving those  dividends. It appears that around 10,000 shares 
from his different holdings were sold in the 2015 transactions and by the middle  of 2016 
around 6,000  more were  sold. Missing  dividends  from these numbers  of shares were likely to 
have been noticed.
The same  conclusion arguably  extends  to activity in NBA2. Mr J jointly  held it and I 
acknowledge the suggestion that it was a secondary account for him  he mainly used is 
solely held bank account. Nevertheless,  it appears arguably  inconceivable that he would not 
have check statements  or any information about NBA2 at any time during 2015 or during  
2016. The proceeds  from the share sales were  first remitted to NBA2, before they appear to 
have been transferred to other accounts (one of which  appears to have  been another jointly 
held account). It is arguable that, at least between 2015 and 2016, Mr J would have once (or 
more) noticed sums that were not particularly insignificant  being deposited into NBA2. If he 
Ref: DRN07905759did not, he ought reasonably to have done so and I am not persuaded that the deposits were 
sufficiently concealed in the bank statements to have gone unnoticed by him.
The preliminary provisional  findings above are relevant  but they alone  do not determine the complaint. 
Mr Js relationship with HSDL was defined by the SDA. Inherent within that relationship (and the SDA) 
were the regulated activities of dealing  and/or arranging deals  in investments (in terms of the share 
dealing service) and safeguarding and administering investments (in terms of the duty to safeguard 
and administer  shares that are held and dealt in the SDAs). Understandably,  Mr Js complaint  
highlights the safeguarding duties owed by HSDL, but its dealing service  (under the administrating 
element) cannot reasonably be ignored. The regulators guidance at PERG 2.7.9G says both the 
safeguarding and administering  elements are important and that the administering element covers 
services involved in the selling  and settlement of assets (such as share  dealing). A balance  between 
both aspects  is required  and this can be seen in the regulators approach to defining how the 
safeguarding responsibility should be carried out  as I treat below.
I am persuaded by HSDLs  argument that the case should be addressed under the three distinct 
processes that were applied  that is, in terms of converting and depositing Mr Js shares, selling  his 
shares and remitting the sale proceeds to NBA2.
Conversion and Deposit of the shares in the SDA
The safeguarding element of HSDLs  safeguarding and administering role would have been engaged 
in this respect. The shares were Mr Js investment assets and the idea was that upon their conversion 
from certificated to digital holdings they would be deposited in the SDA which was under  HSDLs duty 
of care (for safeguarding purposes).  The regulators  custody related  rules  at CASS 6.2 apply in this 
respect. CASS 6.2.1R says that a firm must make adequate arrangements  to safeguard clients 
ownership rights over safe custody assets (such as Mr Js shares). CASS  6.2.2R says a firm  must 
introduce adequate organisational arrangements  to minimise  the risk of the loss or diminution of 
clients safe custody assets  as a result of the misuse of the safe custody assets, fraud, poor 
administration, inadequate  record-keeping or negligence. There is clearly emphasis upon  the need 
for adequate safeguarding and the aim to minimise (not eliminate) the risk of fraud.  I must be 
careful not to arbitrarily subject HSDL  to a higher duty. In summary:
I have  not seen  enough evidence that HSDL ought reasonably to have questioned whether  it 
was or was not Mr J who sought to register the SDA for the online service in 2014/2015.  As I 
said above, I do not draw a conclusion  on HSDLs assertion that Mr J failed to properly 
safeguard his assets and information about his assets at his end. However,  the point  is that I 
have not seen a basis on which  to conclude, on balance, that HSDL should have been 
suspicious about the online service  registration. Its arrangements for the registration  appear 
to have been  adequate , given that it involved  an application process (as described) and given 
that activation of the online service was based on a password that was sent by email and 
post. That too was an adequate  arrangement.  It was not supposed to know that Mr J was not 
involved in the application, as he asserts, or that application/activation related  
correspondence sent to him were being intercepted by his late partner,  as he asserts.
I consider that the key safeguarding aspects of the conversion and deposit of Mr Js shares  
were the setting up of the online service and then the conversion and deposit process that 
repeatedly took place thereafter  between 2015 and 2017. As I said above, I do not consider 
there is evidence of HSDLs shortcomings in the former.  In terms of the latter, I agree  with the 
investigators view that the signature requirement in the Form A must  have had a purpose 
beyond the administrative  one that HSDL argues. If a signature does not serve the purpose of 
aiding identification, it arguably does not serve  any other meaningful  purpose. However, this 
does not mean that the signature  was the only or main means of identification in the process. 
HSDL concedes that it did not (and does not) conduct signature checks  as part of the 
process, so there  is no dispute to address in this respect and the question  that arises  is 
whether (or not) its position  is justifiable. On balance, I provisionally conclude that it is. It 
Ref: DRN079057510cannot be ignored that the overall conversion  and deposit process involved the Registrars of 
the shares and submissions, to them,  of the completed and signed  CREST transfer forms. 
The conversions  would not have completed unless and until the Registrars agreed  to change 
the legal (not beneficial) ownership of the shares from Mr Js name to HSDLs nominee name  
 which then aids the deposit  of the digital  holding, on a nominee basis, in Mr Js SDA. In this 
context, I consider it adequate  for HSDL  to have taken a composite  view on identification in 
the process whereby  it did not rely as heavily on the signatures (and did not apply signature 
checks) as it has been said it should have. An inference that HSDL would  reasonably  have 
drawn from the Form As details matching the SDAs  and from the Registrars being  satisfied 
with the completed  and signed CREST transfer forms in order  to complete the conversions, is 
that identity  was not doubtful. I accept  signature checks could have added another  layer  of 
security but, overall and on balance, I am not quite persuaded that their absence made  the 
process insecure (in the context  of CASS 6.2.2R) or means HSDL  did something wrong in the 
conversion and deposit  process.
Sale of the shares
The CASS rules say that the safeguarding  duty includes, in seemingly equal measure, a firms 
responsibility to protect a clients asset from fraud as it does  a firms responsibility to protect  the asset 
from diminution due to poor administration.  Administration is relevant  to the process  applied by HSDL 
in selling the shares  from the SDA. In a nutshell:
Evidence suggests that share  sales could take place  either through  the telephone or through  
the online service and that different  security and identification measures applied  for each. In 
this case,  there is relevance in the measures  for the online service  because  that is how the 
shares were sold.
The ongoing security  and identification  measures  for the online service  were essentially 
based on the earlier  versions of those measures applied at the outset of the online  service  
at the point  in which the password was issued  (in separate ways) and activated and at the 
points in which the password was then changed and re-issued in the same fashion.  By the 
time of the individual  sale instructions, all that appears to have been required was for the 
account holder to log in to the online SDA and then to instruct the relevant sale(s). No 
signature checks featured and, again, HSDL concedes this. The question is whether (or not) 
its online sales process  (without signature checks) was reasonable.  I provisionally  conclude  
that it was.
HSDL explains that the process  relates to its need to balance security with efficient 
administration of share dealings. I agree. The CASS rule about protecting, under  a firms  
safeguarding responsibility, a clients  asset from poor administration lends some support to 
HSDLs point  in addition to other rules from the regulator related to efficient executions by 
firms. Based on the reasonable understanding that adequate security  and identification  
measures had been  applied prior to activating the SDAs online service and that access  to the 
SDA online can be done only by the account holder who positively passed those measures 
and uses the secure password, it does not appear unreasonable that HSDL did not apply 
further security and identification checks at each point of share dealing.
Remittance of the sales proceeds to NBA2
In straightforward terms, I do not consider it reasonable to suggest that HSDL  was wrong to allow 
remittance of funds from the SDA to a bank account that had been nominated by Mr J for such 
remittances. I provisionally conclude  that it did nothing wrong in this respect.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I provisionally conclude  that this complaint should not be upheld.
Ref: DRN079057511Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0790575