K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint is about  a mortgage  endowment policy  they were  sold in 1984.  
They have said that the policy wasnt suitable for them  at the time of the sale because  of the 
risks associated with it  they were told it would definitely pay off the mortgage  at the end of 
the term and there would be an additional lump sum. 
Phoenix Life Limited is the life assurance company that provides the policy.  I will refer to 
Phoenix throughout this document, even where  activities were undertaken by previous life 
assurance companies.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs A complained about the sale of their endowment  policy.  Phoenix wrote 
to them  and told them it wasnt  responsible for the sale.  It gave them details of the selling 
agent and the most  recent address it could  find for him.
In early 2019 Mr and Mrs A again  raised  a complaint about the sale of their endowment 
policy. It doesnt appear that Phoenix received that letter.  As Mr and Mrs A didnt receive  a 
response to their letter, they contacted  this service. We forwarded the complaint to Phoenix 
and Mr and Mrs A followed  that up with another letter, which  Phoenix  did receive.
Phoenix explained to Mr and Mrs A that the person who had sold the policy  to them  hadnt  
been representing it when he did so. As such,  it said it couldnt comment  on whether the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs A at the time of the sale.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept that Phoenix had no responsibility for the sale of their policy. 
They commented that Phoenix paid the salesman commission and they believe he was 
acting on behalf  of the life company when he sold the policy.  They referred the complaint to 
this service to consider.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint, but concluded the evidence  indicated 
Phoenix wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. As such,  we couldnt ask Phoenix  to 
consider the merits  of Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept the investigators conclusions. They provided part of the letter  
they had been sent by Phoenix in 2003 telling them who the salesman was. They raised  the 
issue of the fact that the salesman had received commission for the sale and may have  
continued to do so after regulation for the investment industry came into force  in April 1988. 
They believe  that Phoenix failed in their duty of care toward them by failing to check the 
salesmans status after April 1988.  They appear  to believe  that Phoenix  should have 
checked advice  given before April 1988  was suitable. As Phoenix  continued  to take 
premiums from the policy after April 1988,  knowing the policy had been sold by an 
unauthorised agent, Mr and Mrs A consider  Phoenix was complicit  with the salesmans 
actions.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Before I consider the evidence in this case to determine whether I can reasonably  hold 
Phoenix responsible  for the sale of this policy, I believe  it would  be beneficial to provide 
Ref: DRN01653842Mr and Mrs A with an explanation of the environment at the time their policy was taken out. 
The information doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint, but might provide some context 
for Mr and Mrs A.
Prior to April 1988 there were no regulations or rules  governing  who could sell investment 
products or how it should be done. If an individual  or business wanted to sell investment 
products such as endowments, they could  do so without having to have  any specific 
qualifications or the need to register with any industry  bodies.  They  would apply to a life 
assurance company  to be able to sell its products and if the life company was willing to allow 
the individual to do so, an agency would be set up. This agency was simply the way the life 
assurance company  identified business from that individual and facilitate commission  
payments. 
Commission was paid to remunerate the owner of the agency for the work they had done in 
selling the policy.  It didnt transfer any responsibility  for the suitability of the advice given to 
the life assurance  company. Commission for the type of policy  Mr and Mrs A were sold 
would usually be in the form of an initial payment and then a smaller payment (renewal 
commission) at each policy anniversary.  Whilst Mr and Mrs A have raised  concerns that the 
salesman may have  continued to receive renewal commission  after regulation came into 
place in April 1988, we are not aware of any regulatory requirement that meant it should 
have stopped or placed any liability on the product provider. However, it later became 
common practice for advisers leaving the industry  to transfer their renewal commission 
payments to another adviser.
Phoenixs records refer to the salesman  as an unauthorised agent.  This doesnt imply any 
wrong-doing on its part. At the time of the sale of Mr and Mrs As policy there  were  no 
authorised agents.  Authorisation is something that came in with the regulation in April 1988. 
It is simply a case of post-regulation terms being  applied to a pre-regulation situation. 
I would also confirm that if a policy was in place before regulation, there  was no requirement  
for a life assurance  company  to reassess  the advice that had been given at an earlier  time. 
This applies to both sales it made direct and those made  by individuals or businesses  that 
held agencies with it. I am not aware  of any life assurance companies which did such  a 
review and I cant find Phoenix at fault because it didnt.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments available in this case.  Having 
done so I am satisfied  Mr and Mrs As policy was sold through an agency  such as Ive 
described above. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs A, but I cant  conclude  that Phoenix 
is responsible for the sale of the policy. 
Ref: DRN01653843my final decision
My final decision is that Phoenix  is not responsible for the sale of Mr and Mrs As policy  and 
so is not liable to consider their complaint about its mis-sale. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject  my 
decision before  11 November 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0165384