K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. The policy covered Mr L only. Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Santander  had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs L that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs L say it wasnt made  clear  the PPI was optional and that it was 
added without their knowledge.
Santander says the PPI was sold over the phone.  And, based on what I understand about its 
sales practices at the time, I think its likely Santander made it clear in the phone call that the 
PPI was separate to the mortgage and that Mr and Mrs L didnt have  to take it out.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage had also been  running  for several years,  and so I dont think  they 
can reasonably  have thought they had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage.  And 
Santander has sent us a copy  of the welcome letter and PPI schedule sent to Mr and Mrs L, 
confirming the policy had been  set up and showing the cost and benefit of it.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think Santander  did make it clear  to Mr and Mrs L that 
they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs L chose to take it, knowing they didnt 
have to.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, so it had to check  that it was right 
for them. And, based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, Mr L doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. And the policy wouldve meant  Mr and Mrs L didnt need  to rely on any 
savings they had to make their mortgage repayments if Mr L became unemployed.
Mr and Mrs L have said Mr L was entitled  to significant sick pay from his employer, so he 
didnt need the PPI. But the policy Mr and Mrs L took out covered Mr L for unemployment 
only, so wouldve provided different cover to his sick pay. So I still think it was right for them.
As well as checking it was right for them, Santander had to give Mr and Mrs L clear  
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr and Mrs Ls 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs L if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs L off taking  it out.
Ref: DRN09552582Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs L paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly.
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ls PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ls commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs L back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0955258