K820x#14complaint
Mr H, on behalf of himself and his wife, Mrs H, has complained  about  Barclays  Bank Plc. His 
complaint is that Barclays advised him to use the reserve on his Mortgage Current  Account 
(MCA) to fund his business. The MCA now has an outstanding balance of £80,000  which Mr 
H says he has no way of repaying. Mr H is asking Barclays to write off the MCA reserve.
background
The complaint arises out of Mr Hs business. In 2002 Mr H was working  for a small business 
which was taken over by a large  multi-national company. In 2007  that company  became  part 
of another business which is a major household  name and Mr H was told his job would be 
changed in a way which he found unacceptable.
Mr H and some of his co-workers left their jobs and formed their own limited  company, 
working in the same  field. Records at Companies House show  the company incorporated on 
22 August 2007.
Mr H says that, knowing there would be no salary  until the company was up and running, 
and needing  working capital, the directors needed  to borrow funds. Mr H explained that as 
he already had an account  with Barclays he approached the bank  for a loan. Mr H says that 
the staff member he spoke to reviewed all his accounts with Barclays and advised him to 
use the MCA reserve which is linked  to his mortgage. 
The MCA reserve is an overdraft facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the 
mortgage, the MCA reserve increases, due to what Barclays calls rebalancing. It can be 
spent by the borrower, through the mortgage current account. But its not intended to be an 
additional regular  income stream for the borrower;  nor should it be used  to make the 
mortgage repayments.
Any amount  spent using the MCA reserve is on an interest-only basis,  although customers  
can pay off the balance in full or in part at any time, if they want  to. The mortgage terms and 
conditions explain that the MCA reserve is repayable on demand,  and that Barclays can 
reduce or withdraw the facility at its discretion. When the mortgage term comes to an end, or 
if the mortgage is repaid before the end date,  any balance  on the MCA has to be repaid in 
full at that time.
Mr H says that, as a result of being  advised  by Barclays  to use the MCA reserve  to fund his 
business, he has spent  £80,000 on the MCA. The mortgage is due to end next year,  when 
the MCA reserve will need  to be repaid  in full.
Mr H said the issue only came to light in 2017 when  he approached Barclays for a loan to 
consolidate his debts. It was at this point that a mortgage adviser in his local branch 
explained that, because Mr H owns 16% of the shares in his company, he is considered self-
employed according to Barclays  lending criteria.
Mr H says that this was never explained to him in 2007 when he was trying to raise working 
capital for the new company. He says:  
when you go to an expert at a bank and explain what  has happened with a company 
takeover and you are about to form a new company, surely  he must have known that 
when you mention that you will own 16% he should  at that point have  said that it will 
Ref: DRN02686892mean you are self-employed even though you are not, and later on you will not be 
allowed to take out a loan with Barclays. 
He looked at all my Barclays accounts and guided me towards borrowing on my 
mortgage It only surfaced when  I came back to meet  the financial adviser again [in 
2017]  and she then dropped the bombshell (we cant help you because  you own 
16% of a company, therefore you cant have  a loan to pay off your borrowing).
Mr H complained to Barclays, which didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H complained 
to us. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt  uphold it. He was satisfied the terms 
of the MCA had been clearly explained  when the mortgage was taken out. He also said 
there was no record of Mr H having  applied for a business loan.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings. Hes asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the complaint is as follows:  Mr H says that Barclays has failed  him in a number 
of ways. Mr H believes  Barclays should have done  the following:
explained before  the takeover by the multi-national and formation of his company in 
2007 that if he owned 16% of the shares  in his own company  hed be considered 
self-employed;
advised him in 2007  before he set up the company  that being considered self-
employed would prevent  him from being  approved shortly afterwards  for a personal 
loan for working  capital  for the new business;
because Barclays didnt give him the correct  advice  in 2007, he wasnt able to take 
out a loan for working capital;
instead Barclays wrongly advised him in 2007  to borrow against  his MCA reserve.
Having considered carefully what Mr H has said about this, I make the following findings.
Barclays was under no obligation  in 2007 (nor at any time) to offer Mr H advice on how to 
structure his business or how the new company should be held by its shareholders. Its not 
the role of a bank  to offer unsolicited business  advice to customers.  In any event, Barclays 
has no record of Mr H approaching it for a business  or personal loan in 2007.
Its up to Barclays to set its own lending criteria. But the bank isnt required to tell customers 
in advance of them embarking on a course  of action whether, in doing so, they might  not 
meet the banks  lending criteria  at some point in the future. I appreciate it was disappointing  
for Mr H that he wasnt able to take out a debt consolidation  loan in 2017. But he didnt meet 
Barclays criteria  for this. I dont have any power to tell Barclays to give Mr H a loan if he 
doesnt meet  the banks lending criteria.
It seems  the main issue Mr H is concerned about  is the balance  owing  on the MCA. Mr H 
says that, rather than allowing him to have a personal loan in 2007, Barclays  advised him at 
the time to borrow against his MCA reserve to fund his business.
Ref: DRN02686893But the difficulty with this scenario is that it doesnt  fit with the facts.
Mr and Mrs H bought  their house  on 14 September 2007  about  three  weeks  after Mr H 
formed his company  with a mortgage  from a different lender.  At the time the company was 
formed in August 2007, Mr and Mrs H owned  a different property, mortgaged to that same  
other lender.
The mortgage with Barclays  wasnt taken out until 20 November 2009, over two years after 
the company was formed. The application  shows that Mr Hs only account with Barclays at 
the time of the mortgage application in 2009  was a current account.
Barclays gave no advice  to Mr and Mrs H in 2009  they had their own independent  financial  
adviser. It was his role to advise them of the nature  and effect  of the MCA and how using it 
would affect the outstanding balance owed to Barclays.
I also note that the statements sent by Barclays for both the mortgage  and the MCA explain 
in plain language how the MCA  operates. The first transaction on the MCA was not until 
13 April 2011, when  £4,500 was transferred to another Barclays  account
Its clear Mr H feels under some financial pressure, given that the MCA reserve  is now at 
£80,000. But I think that it was only after Mr H was turned down for a loan in 2017  because  
he was considered self-employed and needed  to provide verification of his income  that 
Mr H first thought about his predicament. He came up with a scenario which, as far as he is 
concerned, justifies his use of the MCA reserve, at the same time attributing  responsibility for 
this to Barclays. But as I have explained, Mr Hs scenario  that Barclays told him to use the 
MCA reserve in 2007  doesnt fit with the facts.
In the circumstances, given that Mr and Mrs H didnt even have  a mortgage with Barclays in 
2007, the bank could  not have advised  Mr H to use the MCA reserve to fund his business at 
the time he set the company up in August 2007  I thought  about  whether Mr H was confused  
about the timeline of events. But I specifically asked for clarification of this before writing my 
decision, and Mr H was very clear  that hed approached  Barclays in 2007  and been  told then 
to use the MCA reserve.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H now find themselves in the position of having  to find an extra 
£80,000 to repay the MCA reserve by the time the mortgage reaches the end of its term. If 
they are in financial difficulty, they might want to speak to a specialist debt advisory  service  
such as StepChange or Citizens Advice.  We can provide them with information about  these 
agencies if theyd like us to.
But its important both Mr and Mrs H and Barclays maintain an open  dialogue over the 
coming year about repaying the mortgage  when it reaches the end of its term. Barclays is 
required to treat customers in financial difficulty fairly and sympathetically.  And Mr and Mrs H 
are also under an obligation to give full disclosure of their circumstances to Barclays  in order 
that it can fairly consider any repayment  proposals.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Ref: DRN02686894Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0268689