K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc reported  misleading information about a County  
Court Judgement (CCJ) on his credit file which meant he was refused other credit. 
background
Santander registered a CCJ against  Mr M with the credit  reference agencies for £524  on 
14 January 2014  in relation to a store card debt he had previously defaulted on. 
On 24 February 2014 Santander wrote to Mr M to say it had taken the decision to clear  the 
outstanding store card debt and that he would have nothing further to pay. But Santander  
didn't give Mr M a letter he could use to tell the court and credit reference agencies  that the 
CCJ was satisfied. 
In 2018 Mr M contacted  Santander about  the CCJ but was passed to different departments 
who werent able to help. Mr M complained and Santander responded on 5 September 2018  
and apologised  for the service hed received. Santander said that it agreed Mr M had been 
given poor service when  he called to discuss his CCJ.  
Santander also said that in February  2014 it shouldve sent Mr M a letter  confirming the CCJ 
was satisfied that he couldve used to amend his credit file. Santander also said that the CCJ 
would remain on Mr Ms credit  file even though it would  be reported as satisfied. An offer of 
£250 was made but Mr M didnt feel that was fair and referred his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at Mr Ms complaint  and said they thought Santander had dealt with it 
reasonably and made a fair offer. Mr M says that Santanders actions  meant he was rejected 
for credit unfairly and led to additional costs  over the years. As Mr M didnt agree his 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin  by discussing what shouldve happened in February 2014. Santander had 
already obtained a CCJ against Mr M when it wrote  to him to say that he didnt need to repay 
the debt in February 2014. As its already said, Santander  shouldve given Mr M a letter  he 
couldve used to let the court know that the CCJ was satisfied. That means  that the 
outstanding balance owed under the CCJ had been  repaid but it doesnt  mean  that the CCJ 
wouldve been removed  from Mr Ms credit file entirely. 
Ive looked at the guidance provided by the credit  reference agency  Mr M used to provide a 
copy of his report. The guidance  says that a CCJ will remain on someones credit file for six 
years, even  if the balance is repaid during  that time. So whilst I agree the CCJ shouldve  
been amended  to show as satisfied, it still wouldve been recorded  on Mr Ms credit file and 
been visible to potential lenders. 
And its more likely than not that Mr M wouldve experienced similar problems when trying to 
obtain other credit. I note Mr M feels the outstanding CCJ is the main reason hes been 
declined. But the credit file Ive seen  shows there  is other adverse information and I cant  
safely say why Mr Ms applications havent been successful. But Im satisfied from what  Ive 
Ref: DRN09137372seen that even if Santander  had given Mr M the information  he needed to get the CCJ 
recorded as satisfied, its existence still wouldve been reported on his credit  file. 
Ive looked at the service Mr M received when he called to discuss the CCJ in 2018 and I 
can understand why hes annoyed. Santanders said there was some confusion because  he 
was calling about a type of account  it no longer offers.  And whilst that may be the case, I still 
think it shouldve been easier for Mr M to have got the information  he wanted. 
Santander has offered  a total of £250 to resolve Mr Ms complaint and has sent him a letter 
he can use to amend the CCJ information on his credit file. As Ive explained, Im not telling 
Santander to remove all reference to the CCJ from Mr Ms credit file. Taking everything Ive 
seen into account,  I think Santanders offer of £250 fairly reflects  the impact of its error and 
the service provided  to Mr M so Im not telling it to increase  the offer or take any further 
action. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £250  Santander UK PLC has 
already agreed  to pay. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0913737