K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited was unable to apply some pension 
contributions he had made due to a systems error. As a result  of these problems he was 
unable to move some  of his pension fund to a new provider  for a significant period  of time 
and so lost investment returns as a result.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued last month. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Aviva has said that it agrees with 
my provisional findings. Mr V has provided some  further comments. Although  I am only 
summarising here what Mr V has said, I have  considered his entire  response  carefully  before 
writing this decision.
Mr V says that he has approached his new provider, T, to see if it held any details of 
correspondence with Aviva before the transfer  took place. He says that T hasnt been  able to 
provide him with anything that might  be useful to his complaint.  He says that this leaves him 
in the odd situation that Avivas explanation that it does not know why things took so long is 
now an acceptable reason for the delay.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I havent seen 
anything that makes me think I should  change the conclusions I reached in my provisional  
decision.
In response to what Mr V has said about  the reasons  for the delay, I think my findings  were 
clear. I dont  think Aviva was responsible for any delays  to Mr Vs transfer in 2017. He didnt  
make Aviva aware that he was waiting to transfer his investments until he made his 
complaint in May 2018. And although  I have found  Aviva responsible  for a delay of around 
seven weeks after that I dont think that caused Mr V to suffer any loss.
But I do think the time Aviva took to correctly apply  Mr Vs contributions to his pension  
account was unreasonable. And as a result Mr V was caused considerable trouble and 
upset. Aviva needs to pay Mr V the sum of £500.
Ref: DRN07499202my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that 
I uphold part of Mr Vs complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited to pay Mr V 
the sum of £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07499203EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr V complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited was unable to apply  some pension  
contributions he had made due to a systems  error. As a result of these problems he was unable to 
move some of his pension fund to a new provider  for a significant period of time and so lost 
investment returns as a result.
background
Mr V held a pension  plan with Aviva.  He made ad-hoc contributions to his plan by sending a cheque  
with a covering letter to Aviva.  That process had worked successfully until 2017.
In May 2017  Mr V made a further contribution to his pension plan. Aviva failed to process that 
payment correctly and as a result it failed to apply  to his pension. And that failure also meant that 
further contributions  made by Mr V, later in May 2017 and in August 2017 were not applied to his 
account when they were received by Aviva.
It appears that Mr V first contacted Aviva about these problems by telephone in July 2017. On that 
call Aviva identified that the two payments  in May had been received but was unable  to tell Mr V why 
they hadnt  been applied to his account. Aviva  says that it was next contacted, again by telephone, by 
Mr V in February 2018. Once more Aviva was unable to tell Mr V why the payments hadnt been 
applied.
In March 2018  Aviva  wrote  to Mr V to tell him that it was still unable  to resolve the systems  issue that 
was stopping his payments being correctly applied. Mr V telephoned Aviva the following week  and 
was reassured by Aviva  that once the problems  had been resolved his payments would be applied in 
the correct tax year.  Mr V received another email from Aviva in April 2018 saying that the problems 
were still not corrected.
In May 2018  Mr V wrote a letter of complaint to Aviva. He complained that the three payments hadnt 
been applied to his pension account.  And he further complained that the problems had delayed him 
making a transfer  request  to move part of his pension  fund to another provider.  And that this delay 
had caused him to lose a significant amount of investment return.
In July 2017  Aviva responded to Mr Vs complaint.  It explained that it was still unable to understand 
why its systems problems were preventing the application of the three contributions. It confirmed  that 
it would backdate the contributions so no investment  losses would occur.  And it noted  that it wouldnt 
be able to complete Mr Vs transfer  to another provider until the problems had been resolved.  It 
offered to pay Mr V £400  for the trouble and upset the problems were  causing  him.
Aviva managed to correct the problems  three days later.  It sent Mr V a cheque  for the £400 
compensation it had offered  him. And sent some forms for Mr V to fill in to start the transfer to another  
provider. Mr V returned  the forms  at the start of August 2018 and the transfer was completed a week  
later. Mr V didnt accept Avivas offer of £400, and I understand the cheque  Aviva sent to him wasnt 
cashed.
Mr Vs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the offer Aviva  had 
made for the trouble and upset experienced  by Mr V was reasonable. He didnt think  that Aviva 
needed to do anything more.  Mr V didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hadnt 
been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
When I first started to consider the complaint I asked Aviva for some more information. That caused 
Aviva to have  another look at the complaint. And as a result Aviva offered a further £100 to Mr V. 
Mr V didnt accept that offer either  so I will now consider the entire  complaint.
Ref: DRN07499204my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
In deciding this complaint I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by Mr V and 
by Aviva. And I have  looked  at the information we have been given by Mr Vs new pension provider.  
There are some differences in those submissions. So where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words  I have looked 
at what  evidence  we do have, and the surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide what  I think  is 
more likely  to have  happened.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
There is part of this complaint that doesnt appear to be in dispute.  Mr V made three contributions to 
his pension that Aviva  failed to apply in a timely manner. Aviva has explained to us that this was 
because of an error in the categorisation  of the first payment   and until that error was resolved 
further payments  were  also held up. But that doesnt explain to me why it took more than a year for 
Aviva to investigate and resolve this issue. Mr V first queried the missing payments in July 2017. 
It seems that Aviva didnt  begin to investigate those problems in earnest until March  2018.  I can 
understand why Mr V might  be frustrated at this delay.
But I understand that Aviva  has now correctly applied those payments,  and backdated their value to 
the dates they were sent by Mr V. So these delays havent meant that Mr V has suffered any 
investment losses (on the basis that the funds would have  remained with Aviva)  from the delays. But 
the time this problem took to resolve, notwithstanding any consideration  of the transfer that I will deal 
with next, would have caused considerable trouble and upset to Mr V. I have thought carefully  about  
the compensation that would be appropriate in circumstances such  as these  and have concluded that 
the total offer that Aviva  has made of £500 is reasonable.
Mr V has also complained that the problems  delayed  the transfer of some  of his pension  fund to 
another provider  I will call that provider T. Mr V says that he opened a SIPP with the new provider in 
October 2017 and expected Aviva to get in touch with him to send him a transfer form to complete. He 
says that T asked  him on a number of occasions to request that form from Aviva, but he says he 
chose not to speak with Aviva so that he didnt  confuse the rectification of the problems with his 
contributions. But he says that doesnt really affect  things as Aviva later confirmed that it couldnt have 
made the transfer until after the contribution problems  had been fixed.
I can see that Mr Vs new provider  wrote to Aviva in October  2017 to start the transfer process. But 
Aviva says it doesnt have any record of that request  against Mr Vs account.  I can also see that 
T wrote  to Mr V several times  in late 2017 to ask him to contact Aviva and request the transfer 
paperwork. But as I said earlier Mr V decided not to make those requests while his contribution 
problems were  being corrected.  T cancelled Mr Vs transfer  request in January 2018 when it heard  
nothing more from him.
I have listened to the calls Mr V made to Aviva in February and March 2018 to enquire about the 
missing payments. Mr V doesnt make any reference to wanting to transfer any funds  to another  
provider on those calls.  On both calls Aviva  asked  him whether there was anything else it could help 
him with, and he replied  not. In fact Mr V expressly said on both calls that he was not in any rush for 
the problems to be resolved.
Ref: DRN07499205So it doesnt  seem to me that it is reasonable  to say that Aviva was aware that Mr V wanted to 
transfer any pension benefits before it received his letter of complaint in May 2018. Whilst  I have no 
doubts that Mr V was hoping to move the funds to T much earlier I dont think  I can reasonably hold 
Aviva responsible for any delays before it was aware of Mr Vs intentions.
If there  had been no other problems on Mr Vs account I think Aviva could have started  its processes 
to send him the necessary  transfer paperwork on 17 May  I understand that this would normally take 
around five working  days. I think  that was the earliest  time I can reasonably say that Aviva was aware 
that Mr V was looking  to transfer  some  of his pension fund to another provider. But Aviva wasnt able 
to start Mr Vs transfer  until it had resolved the problems  with his contributions. That was on 12 July. 
So Aviva  caused a delay  of seven weeks in this transfer taking  place. And assuming that the rest of 
the transfer had progressed in the same manner that it ultimately did, I think  the transfer should  have 
concluded by 27 June.
Around a week after the transfer  was made Mr V used the transferred  funds  to buy some  shares in a 
specific company.  He has told us that he had wanted to buy these shares  from the time he first 
decided to transfer  some  money from Aviva.  And he has said that if the transfer had happened earlier 
he would have bought  the same value  of shares at the earlier date.
As I said earlier, I think that the transfer should have taken  place seven weeks earlier  than it did. So 
Ive looked at whether this delay has caused Mr V to miss out on any investment returns. I can see 
that the price Mr V paid for his shares when  he bought them in August  was actually less than the price 
he would have paid if hed bought them in the week  following when the transfer should  have taken  
place at the end of June.  So, for the same amount  of money, Mr V was actually  able to purchase 
more shares as a result of the delay. I dont  think the delay has caused  Mr V to lose out.
In looking at whether the delay has cost Mr V money I have only considered the seven weeks 
between June  and August  2018.  I appreciate  that Mr V thinks the delay was far longer than that  he 
says the transfer should have concluded by December  2017. And if that were the case I would agree 
with him that he has lost a significant amount of investment return  given the increase in the price of 
the shares over that period. But for the reasons Ive given above, I dont  think  it is reasonable to say 
that Aviva was responsible  for the transfer not starting before Mr V made it aware of that request in 
his complaint letter.
So in summary I dont  think  that Mr V lost out as a result of the transfer of part of his pension fund 
being delayed by seven  weeks in June  2018.  But I do think the time Aviva took to correctly apply 
Mr Vs contributions to his pension account was unreasonable. And as a result Mr V was caused 
considerable trouble and upset.  On the assumption that Aviva agrees Mr V hasnt cashed the cheque  
it sent him in response to his initial  complaint  in August 2018, I intend  to direct Aviva to pay Mr V the 
sum of £500.
Ref: DRN0749920