K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy for his mortgage.  For simplicity  I will refer to Bank of Scotland plc as 
Halifax for the majority of the rest of this decision.
background
Mr W took out a PPI policy in his name  with a joint mortgage with his then partner  in 1988. 
The mortgage was jointly held between 1988  and 1995 and held solely in Mr Ws name post 
1995. The policy was only ever in Mr Ws name.  Mr W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered him in case  he was off work sick or 
lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided that Mr Ws PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mr Ws complaint  has included  the following issues:
Mr W was led to believe that he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage, that it was a 
condition of the borrowing. 
Mr W had no need of the cover provided  by the policy as he had significant other 
means.
The policy was only in his name  yet there were two people  on the mortgage.
Halifax hasnt produced evidence from the time of the sale to show  it didnt mis-sell 
the PPI.
Mr W has raised other complaint points and my consideration of his complaint isnt limited to 
those points made above. In doing  so, Ive read and considered all the evidence  on the file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it, but because I dont think  I need  to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  (as some  of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have  happened  given 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases where neither party  has the original  
documents from the sale. This is understandable given  that the sale occurred over three 
decades ago, and the account has long since closed. Ive thought carefully about whats  
most likely to have happened, based  on the limited information available.
Ref: DRN01454152Mr W has said there were  fundamental flaws  in the sales processes of some other PPI 
policies and some  other  companies. But I have not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs  
sales process for this type of policy around  the time of this sale.  
Halifax had to get the consent of Mr W to take the policy  and make  it clear he had a choice 
to take the policy.  Mr W recalled taking the policy so it seems most likely  that Halifax  gained 
his consent to take the policy. But Mr W says he took out the PPI because  he was led to 
believe that he had to take it to get the mortgage.  The fact that Halifax hasnt  produced 
evidence from the time of the sale doesnt mean  Halifax mis-sold  the policy.  And I havent 
seen anything that supports Mr Ws testimony that Halifax didnt make  Mr W aware  the PPI 
was optional. 
Mr W took out a sole policy to cover a joint mortgage with his then partner,  which suggests 
there was a discussion with Halifax about  their circumstances. And Mr W recalled that it was 
thought he was more suitable for the PPI as he was the main  earner. So I consider its 
unlikely the policy was presented as compulsory if it was tailored in this way and wasnt 
taken out by both individuals  named on the joint mortgage. So, whilst acknowledging that 
things could have  happened just as Mr W said, having considered  all the submissions I have 
received in this case, I think its more likely than not that Halifax wouldve  made  Mr W aware 
that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Halifax has accepted  that it advised  Mr W to take out the policy, which means  it had to check 
the policy was right for him. And based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, 
I think it was. I say that because Mr W was eligible for the policy  and doesnt  seem to have 
been affected by any of the policys likely main exclusions or limitations.  
And I think that Mr W had a need  for the policy. While Mr W said he had good  sick pay 
through work  initially, I note that this dropped significantly after six months. Mr W has 
mentioned often that he had no need  for the policy because he had a significant amount of 
shares he could have sold had he needed  to support himself for a time. Its clear  that Mr W 
feels strongly about this point and I want to make it clear that I have listened to everything  
Mr W has told me about this matter. And I have carefully considered  this aspect of the 
complaint. 
Given the thirty years that have passed  since the sale its not surprising that Mr W has not 
been able to produce evidence to clarify the size of the portfolio he held at the time of the 
sale. Mr W has been able to provide a statement  of his share holdings from 2000 and 2004,  
which is roughly 12 and 16 years after the point of sale of the PPI. Mr W told us the portfolio 
started in 1983  with £30,000 and would have,  in 1988, more than covered 6-12 months  
mortgage repayments and possibly much  longer. 
When thinking about this, Ive noted that whilst Ive seen evidence  that the portfolio was a 
very significant size many  years after the sale, there is no evidence  that clearly supports 
Mr Ws testimony about his recollections of its likely  size at the time of the sale. 
Ive also considered that investment markets  can be volatile and the policy Mr W took out 
may have  been  useful  in preventing him having  to realise some or all of his investments in 
potentially adverse market conditions. For example, there was a stock market  crash in 1987. 
Ive also thought about the fact that the mortgage  was a significant,  long-term  commitment  
and there  was no guarantee that Mr Ws work benefits or savings wouldve still been 
available in the years  to come.
Ref: DRN01454153I have also noted  that Mr W was applying for a mortgage for a not insignificant amount at a 
time when  interest  rates were higher  than they are today.   And  Ive noted that Mr W decided, 
for reasons of his own, to protect his investment portfolio at the time of the sale.  In saying 
that I mean that Mr W did not sell his investments to achieve a smaller mortgage,  or no 
mortgage at all. 
The PPI covered Mr W for up to 24 months  in any one claim if he was too ill to work, and 
wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay. And it would have paid out for up to 12 months if 
Mr W lost his job. And these benefit  levels could have given Mr W peace of mind  about 
covering his mortgage repayments and other outgoings. They would also have further 
protected Mr Ws investments if anything  went wrong. 
So considering all of the above  and the serious consequences of potentially defaulting on a 
debt secured on his home, I think Mr W could  have found the policy useful  and therefore  I 
think it was suitable  for Mr W.
Mr W has questioned the accuracy of the premium the adjudicator  used in the assessment 
letter. The adjudicator used the premium  that Halifax provided us. Mr W thinks  the initial 
premium was higher.  Its not clear to me what the initial premium  was. But I have looked  at 
the premium Mr W thinks he paid in 1988. I also think that the size of the premium in relation 
to the potential benefit it could have provided, would  not, in my view, be sufficient to turn an 
otherwise suitable  sale into one which is unsuitable.   
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable (I note it was afforded for many years).  So having  thought  
about everything carefully, I think its most  likely that the policy was suitable  for Mr W.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr W, Halifax also had to give him clear  enough  
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Halifax gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But even if 
Halifax had given better information,  for the same reasons Ive mentioned above, I think  its 
more likely than not that Mr W would still have taken out the policy as it was suitable and 
affordable for him.
Mr W pointed  out that when he made a change to the mortgage in 1995, his PPI was 
adjusted to take account of the new mortgage  payments. Mr W says that this constitutes  a 
separate sale and that as his circumstances  were not reappraised at that time, the policy 
was mis-sold. But, as far as I can see, the same mortgage account and the same  insurance 
account were in place  both before  and after 1995  and Ive been shown no evidence  that the 
business made a recommendation  at that time. In fact it seems  most likely that the policy 
and premium were adjusted on an administrative basis. So I dont agree that there  was a 
second sale in this case. 
Ive thought about what Mr W said about the policy only being in his name  when the 
mortgage was jointly held. Mr W felt this was evidence the policy  was mis-sold  as he felt the 
policy should maybe have been  split between them. Its not clear what  was discussed at the 
time of the sale and its not clear if the policy could have been split between  the two parties 
at the time. But when  he brought  his complaint to us, Mr W told us that he had been sold the 
policy as he was the main  earner. Mr W has also provided some  evidence that shows  that at 
the time of the sale he owned  a larger percentage of the property he was buying than his 
then partner, with Mr W describing  himself as the majority holder at that time. So it seems 
likely that there was discussion about  who was to be covered by the policy at the time, and 
Ref: DRN01454154also that there was a rationale applied as to why Mr W should be covered,  as the higher 
earner and majority holder of the property. Theres no evidence the sole PPI was unsuitable 
and, on balance, I consider such a policy was suitable given Mr W and his then partners 
circumstances at the time.
In any event, even  if the policy had been unsuitable because of how it was set up to protect  
Mr W alone, Im not persuaded that he would  have suffered any loss as a result of it. I say 
this because even  if a split of benefit had been possible at that time on the policy  that was 
sold, the overall cost of the policy was likely to have  been the same to Mr W and his then 
partner, however the cover had been set up. This means that Mr W and his then partner 
would only be worse  off if they had made  a claim. Whilst  he couldnt be sure,  Mr W told us 
he thought that no claim  has been made  on this policy. So looking back, Mr W and his then 
partner havent  lost out as a result. And as the policy was cancelled  in 2003 he wont lose 
out in the future. So, in view of the above, even if I thought that the policy was unsuitable 
because it was arranged  solely  in the name of Mr W  which  I dont - I havent seen sufficient 
evidence in this case to think that Mr W would have lost out as a result of that. 
Mr W has suggested that the sale was made by staff incentivised  to do so. I acknowledge its 
possible the adviser may have benefited  in some way from selling the policy.  But that would 
not have changed the advisers responsibility to sell a suitable policy. And for the reasons 
given above, its my opinion that the policy was suitable for Mr W. 
I know Mr W feels strongly about, and has put time and effort into, his complaint. I realise 
hell be disappointed  by the outcome. But on balance, and for the reasons Ive explained, I 
think the policy was suitable for Mr W. And, even if the policy wasnt suitable, I dont think Mr 
W has lost out as a result of anything Halifax may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint about  Bank  of Scotland 
plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0145415