K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Unum Ltd has stopped  making payments to him following a successful 
claim on his group income protection insurance  policy.
background
Mr H became absent from work at the end of August 2017 and was subsequently diagnosed 
with Parkinsons disease. Mr H had an income  protection policy  (the policy) through his 
employer, which can pay out a portion of his income after hes been off work for 13 weeks  
(the deferred period). 
A claim  was made on the policy during the deferred period which was accepted by Unum 
and it started to pay the monthly benefit under the policy  with effect of December 2017. 
In March and April 2018 two neurologists reviewed Mr H and reported  that his symptoms 
had improved, and concluded that Mr H didnt  have Parkinsons  disease. 
One of the neurologists said he couldnt identify any other neurological disease behind 
Mr Hs symptoms, that the rest of his nervous system was normal with normal  reflexes and 
flexor planters. He also reported that Mr H had told him that he was improving and was 
thinking of going back to work on a gradual return  and that a factor  behind  his fatigue  may 
have been his job, which hed described  as stressful.
As a result Unum stopped  paying the monthly  benefit in June 2018.
Mr H didnt think that was fair and complained  to our Service. Our investigator concluded, at 
that time,  an independent medical expert should be instructed  to consider whether Mr H 
remained incapacitated under the terms of the policy.  Both parties agreed with that 
recommendation.
In February 2019,  Mr H met with a consultant occupational physician who provided a report 
(the February report). And in light of the contents  of the February report, Unum concluded 
that it had fairly stopped paying  the monthly benefit  in June 2018. 
Mr H also obtained his own report from a consultant  physician dated  25 March  2019 (the 
March report) which concluded that Mr H wasnt fit to return to work due to chronic  fatigue  
syndrome (CFS). Unums  chief  medical officer has considered the March  report  and 
provided reasons  as why Unum was right to stop making the monthly  payments.  
In light of all the medical  evidence,  our investigator didnt think Unum  had shown that it had 
fairly and reasonably stopped paying  the monthly benefit. So, he upheld  Mr Hs complaint 
and recommended Unum  pay the backdated monthly payments together with interest and 
reinstate the claim. He also recommended that Unum  pay Mr H the costs  associated with the 
preparation of the March  report and Mr Hs travelling  expenses  to the appointment.  
Unum disagree so Mr Hs complaint has been  passed to me to consider everything afresh 
and make a decision.  
Ref: DRN04336172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt  turn down a 
claim unreasonably.  When making  a claim,  its for Mr H to demonstrate that he meets  the 
definition of incapacity and Mr H was able to do that. But as Unum  has terminated the claim, 
it is for Unum to show  - based on medical  evidence  that Mr H no longer meets the 
definition of incapacity. 
Under the policy a member is incapacitated if they are: 
 unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial  duties of 
the insured occupation and are not performing any occupation
Illness means:
ill-health or disease  as evidenced  by a significant  or objectively  determined deterioration in 
physical or mental  health
Insured occupation  means:
the trade, profession or general role that the member was actively undertaking for, or at, the 
employer immediately prior to incapacity
Mr Hs insured occupation  has been described  as a national sales  manager. At the point he 
was unable to work  his role included various tasks including managing a sales  team, 
communicating with customers, dealing with a number  of complex issues  at the same  time 
and planning  and organising. Hed be required  to visit and entertain  customers  (in the UK 
and, occasionally, abroad) and attend  his employers head office for meetings. Mr H was 
also required  to drive  to and from appointments  and although theres a disagreement about 
how many  miles  Mr H would drive  as part of his job, in any given month  (his employer  says 
around 2,000  Mr H says it could  be up to 3,300), its not disputed that driving was an 
integral part of his role. On occasions,  hed be able to work from home. 
Mr Hs claim was originally accepted and so Unum agreed, at that time, he met the definition  
of incapacity as set out in the policy. As Ive said above, as Unum  has terminated  the claim 
its for it to show Mr H no longer met that definition. Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied 
on the evidence  available  to me when considering this issue.  Having done so, Im satisfied 
Unums decision to stop making monthly payments under the policy  is unfair and 
unreasonable. 
I accept  the medical  evidence from the two neurologists  in March and April 2018 supports  
that Mr Hs symptoms had improved and that he didnt  have  Parkinsons disease,  and nor 
did he have any other neurological disease. I also note that both neurologists make 
reference to Mr Hs job being stressful which may have contributed to his fatigue. And one of 
the neurologists  says Mr H had improved spontaneously with no evidence  of bradykinesia.  
However the other neurologist does  also say in a letter dated 25 April 2018 that Mr H:
Ref: DRN04336173 has chronic fatigue and has not worked for this reason for some nine months he 
has difficulty sleeping and doesnt  feel refreshed  in the mornings.
He also describes other symptoms such as thumb twitches, a tremor of his right hand, a 
feeling of ants crawling up his legs and itching below  the knees - to the extent that Mr H 
would draw blood when scratching. But he reports that these symptoms had become less 
severe.
In June 2018, that neurologist also writes to Mr Hs employer repeating that Mr H suffers 
from severe fatigue and inability  to sustain his concentration for any length of time and that 
in his opinion  Mr H was:
 suffering from a variant of what is known  as a chronic fatigue syndrome which is 
likely to improve but he is likely to be made worse in the short term by returning  to 
what to me sounds like a pretty high-powered jobI recommend that he almost  
certainly cannot return to this job as currently configured
He concludes: 
the cause of chronic fatigue syndrome  is often difficult to establish  but once 
someone has these symptoms it is important that they dont go back  immediately into 
high stress  and high workload situations and I suspect in the case of Mr H this 
difficulty with tolerating  such posts  will be the rest of his working life although he may 
improve with time. 
The consultant occupational physician in the February report, although noting the suggested 
diagnosis of variant of CFS by the neurologist in June 2018, says theres no evidence Mr H 
had been formally assessed against specific diagnostic criteria for this condition.  He also 
said that Mr Hs symptoms were self-reported, that Mr H had researched  this condition in 
depth and had substantially reflected on his own symptoms. As such he is:
 very unlikely not to report his symptoms in a way that meets the diagnostic  criteria. 
He may well therefore be considered to meet the criteria of chronic fatigue 
syndrome although  his pattern of fatigue  is atypical,  and his overall performance 
levels would indicate  mild chronic fatigue  syndrome only. 
But the occupational physician was unable to say how quickly  he could  reach a full time 
sales role as this will depend on so many  variables it could be anything  from a year or two 
to never . He put this down  to a number of potential factors including  Mr H working in a high 
pressure job and his age. But he didnt think Mr H was medically unable to work although he 
said it might  be pragmatic  for him not to return to his previous role  particularly as hed 
become substantially physically deconditioned, so any return to his former level of activity 
needs to reflect this. 
That led the chief medical officer to conclude - prior to the receipt of the March  report - that 
the overall evidence doesnt indicate  Mr Hs experience of episodes of fatigue is the result of 
illness. 
However, the March  report  describes the defining features of CFS as an overwhelming 
sense of fatigue combined  with chronic flu-like  illness after mental and physical exertion, and 
a profound lack of energy.  The clinical physician says the chronic fatigue a patient  feels isnt 
relieved by sleep  and isnt always present; it can be unpredictably variable from day to day 
Ref: DRN04336174and frequently  follows a relapsing and remitting pattern. He also says CFS can result in 
reduced attention  span  and loss of concentration. And concludes Mr Hs clinical presentation 
conforms to established  criteria for CFS and that, in the clinical physicians opinion,  Mr H 
was genuinely  incapacitated by his illness and unable to undertake any work  related activity.
Unums chief medical officer has said that the March report is more of a reflection of the 
physicians views of the pathology of CFS which didnt represent a consensus  view. Further 
he didnt think the March report provided evidence  that altered the understanding of Mr Hs 
medical status at the time the decision was taken to terminate the claim.
However, I think Unum has unfairly placed more weight on the February  report  than the 
March report, when considering whats said about Mr Hs symptoms and whether he meets 
the policy definition  of incapacity. Thats because:
the conclusion  of the March report is consistent  with what  one of the neurologists 
advised in June 2018, around the time Unum stopped paying the monthly benefit, 
referred to above; that Mr H couldnt return to his job as currently  configured.
the symptoms the consultant clinical physician describes in the March  report are 
consistent with those reflected in Mr Hs GP notes;  that he reported ongoing fatigue 
shortly before he stopped working  in August 2017. There are also a number of 
references to lethargy,  poor concentration, light headiness, and ongoing  fatigue  in 
the months leading  up to him being unable to work and before a diagnosis  of 
Parkinsons disease (or indeed CFS) was made.
given whats said about how CFS manifests  itself in the March report, Im satisfied 
theres a credible reason which explains why Mr H reported  in March  and April 2018 
that he felt his symptoms  were improving and that he was able to go on 8 mile walks. 
Ive seen no evidence  that Unums chief medical  officer  has fully considered this as a 
plausible explanation. He simply relies on the contents of the February report,  which 
concludes that walking 8 miles was atypical  of CFS.
The March report has been prepared by a physician  with significant experience, and 
a major interest, in CFS and he says a substantial proportion  of his present practice 
comprise patients who suffer  with this condition. Hes also a member of NICEs 
guideline development group for CFS and says he has seen over 2000 patients with 
this condition; whereas the occupational  physician who prepared  the February report 
doesnt proclaim to have any particular experience in CFS. 
reading the February report as a whole, its clear  that the focus  is on whether Mr H 
was able to return  to work  in any capacity rather than whether he can return  to job he 
was doing before  he stopped working.  Thats supported by whats said towards the 
start of the report; that Mr H is insured under a definition of disability that requires him 
to be medically unable to work due to illness or injury. However, thats  not the 
applicable definition  of incapacity in the policy Mr H has the benefit  of. 
So, all in all, Im satisfied  that Unum  hasnt been  able to fairly demonstrate  that Mr H no 
longer meets  the definition of being  incapacitated.  
When making this finding Ive also taken  into account whats  written in the February report 
about the effect of the issues  Mr H had with his employer  - and how this might increase  his 
low mood  and depression. The report reflects that the longer  the work issues persist, the 
Ref: DRN04336175less likely Mr H is to rehabilitate. I accept there are other references to Mr H having a 
stressful job by the two neurologists, referred to above, and how this might  be adding  to his 
symptoms. There is also mention of Mr H having  a stressful  job in his GP records.  However,  
I dont think its fair of Unum to stop paying  the monthly payments on the basis that it was the 
demands of the role that was causing his absence as opposed to his illness.  
In light of the collective medical  evidence, Im persuaded that its more likely that Mr Hs 
absence is due to illness, as defined by the policy. And although Mr Hs symptoms may have 
fluctuated  particularly around the time when he was no longer diagnosed  with Parkinsons 
disease - based  on the evidence (in particular the March report), Im satisfied  thats an 
inherent part of the condition  Mr H seems  to suffer from.
putting things right
Unum Ltd should:  
reinstate the claim and pay the backdated  monthly payments to the policyholder.  This 
should be calculated  from the date the claim was terminated to the date Unum 
makes payment. The payments will be subject  to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
calculate 8% simple interest  on the backdated  payments from the date on which  
each backdated  payment was due to be paid to the date payment is actually made,  
and pay that to Mr H directly*
pay, directly to Mr H, the cost of his medical  examination and subsequent report  
dated March 2019 together with his travel costs to the appointment in the sum of 
£839.65, subject  to him providing  proof of payment directly  to Unum  Ltd. It should  
also pay 8% simple  interest on those amounts calculated from the date on which 
Mr H made  payment to the date on which Unum Ltd reimburses him.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I direct Unum Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
*If Unum Ltd considers  its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest paid, it should tell Mr H how much  its taken off. It should  also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs, if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0433617