K820x#14complaint
Mr K complained about the solicitors provided by Virgin Money plc for his remortgage. 
The solicitors told him there  was a problem with a pipe across his land, so they couldnt  do 
the work  for free, and hed have to pay for his own solicitor. Mr K says the pipe wasnt  even 
on his land. 
Mr K wants  Virgin to pay for the legal fees he incurred unnecessarily,  and compensate him 
for the inconvenience.
background
Mr K applied through a broker for a remortgage  with Virgin. As part of the deal he had free 
legal services. 
Virgin issued an offer on 14 February 2018.  Section 12 had a section headed Incentives 
which said:
Free Standard Remortgage Legal  Services - Virgin Money plc will pay for the legal work 
involved in a standard remortgage.  Virgin Money plc have appointed a Solicitor  to undertake  
the legal  work. The Solicitor will be acting for Virgin Money plc and not for you.
You will be responsible for paying the costs  of any additional or non-standard legal work that 
may be required or that you request, for example
- Transfers  of equity
- Landlord's  registration fee
- Land Registry first registration fee
- Money transmission charges (e.g. CHAPS).
The solicitors appointed by Virgin to undertake the legal  work for Mr Ks mortgage looked at 
some of the title information for Mr Ks property. They  said that a pipe ran through the land,  
with a lease on it to a water authority.  So the solicitors said they couldnt provide  a free 
service for Mr K after all, because the situation  was complicated. It told Mr K he had to 
instruct his own solicitor.
Mr K did so. He has told us the solicitor he appointed said that there wasnt  a pipe on Mr Ks 
land at all and it was on a neighbours land. By then Mr K had incurred £1,185 of costs with 
his own solicitor. He wasnt happy  and complained to Virgin,  asking to be reimbursed  for 
these costs.
Virgin said that the solicitors it had appointed  were  independent from Virgin. So Mr K would 
have to complain direct  to the solicitors. Mr K did, but the solicitors said there  had been a 
lease noted against the title so it hadnt been  able to proceed under the free scheme.
Mr K had some further correspondence with Virgin. He said he had no direct contractual 
relationship with the solicitors, only with Virgin. Virgin explained that under the service  
agreement between Virgin and the solicitors, the solicitors didnt have to obtain plans, check  
leases or services  do conveyancing work. Virgin said that the solicitors  were under a 
limited retainer and werent required to carry  out a full title check.
Ref: DRN01380012Mr K believed his remortgage was a simple transaction and should  have  been  standard.  He 
said the issue about the pipe was very clear from the title documents and the solicitors had 
simply been wrong. He remained  unhappy and complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said that although standard work 
wasnt specifically defined  in the mortgage offer,  there  was a clear  indication of the type of 
work that wouldnt be covered. The solicitors appointed by Virgin were regulated  by the 
Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) so Virgin hadnt been  wrong  to appoint them. So Mr K 
would have to take any complaint about the quality of their work to the SRA.
Mr K remained unhappy.  He said that:
-the examples  in the offer of what wouldnt count as legally standard didnt make 
reference to his situation. They  were  only about fees etc;
-he believed his transaction was standard. The solicitors had made a mistake  and had 
looked at the adjacent  property,  not his own;
-as a result, hed had to instruct his own solicitor,  to whom it quickly  became  apparent  
that the solicitors  Virgin  had appointed  had made a mistake. But by then it was too late, 
as Mr K had incurred costs with his own solicitor. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that it would firstly  be appropriate to explain the situation  in relation to the solicitors  
appointed by Virgin. When the solicitors  were doing  part of a regulated  activity  on behalf of 
Virgin, then Virgin would  be responsible for their actions. However, what  is considered  
normal conveyancing work  including  making  sure that the title is fit for the lenders use  
would not be work  done on behalf  of Virgin.  The consumer would be responsible for the 
actions of the solicitor  in those circumstances. 
I appreciate why Mr K is upset, because he believes that the  solicitors made a mistake  
about which property  was affected  by the lease, and that as a result all of the legal work 
required  should have  fallen within a definition of standard.
But when commenting on whether additional work  was needed  in this case, the solicitor was 
advising on conveyancing work.  Virgin wasnt responsible for anything to do with any 
conveyancing work  that was or might have been needed, including  any advice to have it 
done. As such,  I cant look at whether or not the solicitors did make a mistake which led to 
them saying conveyancing  work,  which wasnt standard was needed.  Mr K can complain 
about the solicitors,  but hell have to do this through the Solicitors  Regulation Authority. 
What I can consider is the banks role  in other  words, whether Virgin  set out the situation 
clearly, and whether  it acted wrongly when it appointed the  solicitors it did.
The mortgage offer did make  it clear that there might be circumstances under which  the free 
legal service might not happen. The examples quoted as non-standard in the offer are 
indeed mainly about fees matters, but the offer does clearly state that theyre examples, not 
a comprehensive  list.
Ref: DRN01380013And the solicitors appointed by Virgin were  professionally regulated,  so I dont find that the 
bank made  a mistake  in appointing them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont find that Virgin  Money plc acted wrongly,  so I do not uphold 
Mr Ks complaint against the bank.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0138001