K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  how Mr Rs Egg credit card was administered  and what 
happened when  it was transferred to Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard in 2011.
This complaint has been brought to us jointly  by Mr and Mrs R, and most of the submissions 
have been made by Mrs R. But the credit card account is in Mr Rs sole name,  so Ill just 
refer to Mr R in the decision.
background
Mr R had a credit card with Egg, which was transferred to Barclaycard in 2011  when it took 
over the business.  
Mr R raised a complaint  with Barclaycard  saying:
he hasnt received a statement since 2007
he didnt  receive anything to let him know the card was transferring to Barclaycard, or 
what options  he had with regards to interest rates
he hasnt been shown how the £9,000  balance that was transferred was accrued and he 
questions if the debt is his
he didnt  sign a new direct debit and Barclaycard just continued using  his existing Egg 
one without  his permission  taking a minimum payment
In their final response letter to Mr R in April 2017 Barclaycard apologised for the length of 
time it took them to reply  to Mr Rs complaint and paid £25 in recognition of the poor service.
They explained that Egg wrote to Mr R in May 2011, confirming that ownership of his 
account would be transferring to Barclaycard, with a follow  up email also sent in May 2011. 
The new terms and conditions relating to the Barclaycard account were sent in September  
2011 and a final communication about  his new Barclaycard was sent in October 2011, ready 
for when  the account changed ownership in November 2011.
Barclaycard say that Egg accounts were administered online so statements wouldve been  
emailed to Mr R, which  continued when the account transferred to Barclaycard.  They  also 
said that the direct debit  transferred from Egg, with the details retained as part of the 
migration to cause  minimal disruption.  And that the balance on Mr Rs final Egg account  
statement lines up with the opening balance on his Barclaycard  account   allowing for the 
monthly direct debit payment which had been  taken and was applied before the balance 
transferred over.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards  response,  so he brought  his complaint  to our service.
An adjudicator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold  it. They  felt the transfer of the 
account from Egg to Barclaycard in 2011 had been handled appropriately. They  were  
satisfied that the £9,000 balance was made up of genuine transactions made  by Mr R, and 
that Barclaycard  hadnt acted incorrectly in allowing the direct debit to continue  following the 
transfer. The adjudicator was satisfied  that statements wouldve been emailed to Mr R 
between 2007  and 2012, and that it was more  likely  than not that the migration letters/emails 
had also been  sent in 2011. The investigator explained that none  of the Egg account  
customers being migrated  were offered special interest rates  and highlighted that there  
wasnt an obligation on Barclaycard to do so. Overall the adjudicator  didnt feel Barclaycard 
had acted inappropriately or made any errors.
Ref: DRN04099422The adjudicator provided Mr R with templates of the letters/emails Barclaycard  say he 
wouldve been sent advising of the transfer from Egg to Barclaycard in 2011.  As well as 
statements on the Egg card from January 2003  which showed the transactions  that created 
the balance transferred to the Barclaycard account.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case, so it was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And where there is a dispute  about what  
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  to have happened 
in light of the available evidence. Having  done so I agree  with the adjudicator  that 
Barclaycard havent  done anything wrong,  and Ill explain why.
the monthly statements and migration correspondence
Barclaycard say Egg accounts were operated  and maintained online, so any statements 
wouldve been sent to Mr R by email. Theyve  provided us with copies of the Egg card 
statements from 2003 through to the migration in November 2011, which they say were sent 
to Mr R. Theyve also provided us with monthly statements post migration through to 2017   
which show Mr Rs mailing address. Unfortunately due to the length of time that has passed 
Barclaycard doesnt  have  the original letters/emails that were  sent to Mr R personally about 
the migration.  What they have provided are templates of what they say wouldve been  sent 
to all affected customers, as well as screen shots which  confirm  that migration 
correspondence was sent to Mr R.
Mr R says that he didnt  receive statements between 2007  and 2012,  or any notification  
regarding the migration of his card from Egg to Barclaycard. But on balance  I think  its more  
likely than not they were  sent to him. I say this because Barclaycard have provided evidence  
of the email address they held for Mr R before and after migration. From what Ive seen the 
email address they held for Mr R didnt change  between  2003 and 2012. So I think its likely 
that if Mr R was receiving statements up to 2007 that he wouldve continued receiving 
statements following this date  as it follows that all of them  were  sent to the same email 
address. And this would  be true for the migration correspondence as well. It is possible that 
for some reason the statements or migration correspondence mayve gone into Mr Rs junk 
mail folder, but this isnt something we would hold Egg liable for. 
With regards to the statements post migration  I can see that the mailing address Barclaycard 
have for Mr R, which is shown on all the statements, matches  the address that Mr R has given 
us as his current  address.  So on balance  I think its more likely than not that Mr R has been sent 
statements regularly on his account since 2007, both while  it was an Egg account and since it 
migrated to a Barclaycard  account  as well as notification  of the migration of the account.
the migration of the Egg account  to Barclaycard 
Having reviewed the migration correspondence  templates, I can see that one explains Any 
direct debit you may have  set up with Egg will be collected as usual, so theres no need for 
you to change anything . As I think its most  likely that this wouldve been sent to Mr R, Im 
Ref: DRN04099423persuaded that Egg took steps to make Mr R aware that his direct debit would continue  
following the migration.  
But regardless as Mr R had a balance owing  on his Egg card prior to the migration, Mr R 
wouldve still been liable and required to make a monthly account payment post migration. 
I can see that in the months prior to the migration  Mr R was only paying the minimum 
payment, so Barclaycard has simply continued taking the payments on the same basis post 
migration as pre migration. And, I cant see that Mr R has been adversely affected  by this. 
By Barclaycard continuing to use the existing authority, Mr R didnt risk missing a payment to 
his account which mayve incurred fees and interest.  So I cant  fairly say Barclaycard have 
done anything  wrong by continuing to take the monthly direct debit following the migration. 
The monthly statements  weve been given set out all the spending, balance transfers, 
interest and payments on the account up to migration and following the migration. Also,  I can 
see that in December 2008 Mr Rs monthly direct debit payment increased  from 
approximately £80 to over £260  - following some balance transfers made  onto the Egg card.  
I think its likely that Mr R wouldve noticed  such a significant increase  in his monthly direct 
debit payment and wouldve queried this at the time with Egg if it was unexpected. But 
overall Im satisfied that the statements show what made up the balance of just over £9,000 
which was transferred from the Egg account  to the Barclaycard account. 
Barclaycard have told us that Egg customers were  migrated across on the same interest rate 
they had prior to the migration.  And while I appreciate that Mr R mayve liked an interest-free 
option, Barclaycard  were  under no obligation to offer this to him. 
in summary
While I appreciate that Mr R will be disappointed,  I cant see that Barclaycard  have  done  
anything wrong  with regards to the points hes raised. But Barclaycard have acknowledged 
that they couldve provided a better  level of customer service  to Mr R. In the circumstances I 
think the £25 theyve already paid him is a fair award.
Im sorry  to hear about  the personal difficulties that Mr R and his family have experienced in 
recent years. If hes experiencing  financial  difficulties he should let Barclaycard know,  so that 
they can discuss repayment options  with him regarding the balance owed on the account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0409942