K820x#14complaint
Miss P is unhappy because she says that Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) breached  her 
personal data. 
background
Miss P approached Lloyds and said that shed been  coerced  by her partner to take out a 
loan to purchase a car and she was now struggling  with the repayments. She explained  that 
she was a victim of domestic violence and was in the process  of injunction proceedings 
against her partner. 
Miss P met with the same branch representative  who arranged the loan (representative 1) 
and disclosed details  of her personal situation, including relevant  paperwork evidencing  the 
Court proceedings. During one of the meetings, another branch representative  
(representative 2) entered and said that she was aware of Miss Ps situation  although  it was 
unclear to Miss P, why this was the case. 
After one of the meetings, Miss P began receiving  text messages from representative 2 
offering to buy her car. Miss P declined and said shed resolve the matter of her loan 
repayment with the bank  direct. Some months later, she began  receiving social media 
messages from representative 2s former  husband enquiring whether she was the customer  
who was trying to sell a car of a certain  specification following an abusive relationship. 
Miss P was naturally unnerved by this contact,  not least because of her traumatic personal 
situation. 
Miss P reported the matter to Lloyds who accepted  that there had been:
a conflict of interest because of Miss Ps personal information being shared  between 
representative 1 and representative 2 and;
a breach of s.170  of the Data Protection  Act (unlawfully  obtaining  personal  data)  
because representative 2 shared Miss Ps personal information with her former 
husband. 
Lloyds agreed  to write off the loan and offered Miss P £1,000  as compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the conduct  of its employees. Our investigator didnt uphold  the 
complaint because he considered that that this was a fair outcome in all the circumstances 
of the case. Miss P disagreed and so the case has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint  Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that the conduct of the two Lloyds branch staff was inappropriate and 
breached Miss Ps personal data.  The only point  which I need to decide is whether the 
amount of compensation Lloyds has offered is enough in all the circumstances of Miss Ps 
case. In light of the evidence and Miss Ps testimony, I consider that a further £500 is 
warranted, bring the total compensation amount to £1,500.   
My reason  for this is because its clear  to me that Miss P was under incredible pressure at 
the time because of her personal  situation.  Shes told us that she feared for hers and her 
childs personal safety and was unable  to work for a period  of time due to stress. And so I 
Ref: DRN00318752can see how a breach of trust by her bank, would have created a heightened  degree of 
stress - and mistrust  - for her. I acknowledge that Lloyds isnt exclusively responsible for the 
strain Miss P was experiencing  at the time but Im satisfied that the behaviour  of its 
representatives exacerbated it  and it could have been avoided altogether if procedures 
had been followed  correctly.  
For the reasons  stated  above, Im upholding this complaint and require Lloyds to pay Miss P 
£1,500 as compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to her. I have made  both parties 
aware of this together with my reasons, ahead of issuing this final decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Miss P 
£1,500 in recognition of the trouble  and upset caused to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0031875