K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited made an error in not covering his 
new car on his motor insurance policy. He also says its contact with him was poor.
 
background
Mr A added a new car to his policy with Admiral in November  2018. In March  2019 he was 
stopped by the police for not having insurance. He says it took Admiral an hour and a half to 
sort the issue out whilst  he was at the roadside  with the police. As Admiral confirmed there 
was an error  on its part (given that Mr A had given  it the details of the new car) the police 
didnt seize it. Admiral  offered him £250  compensation  for distress  and inconvenience.
Mr A had personal injury  cover, and he was injured in the accident that led to him changing  
his car. When he spoke to Admiral  on 11 January  2019, the advisor said hed contact him in 
three to four weeks  to check whether Mr A had been for an ultrasound  scan. The advisor  
also asked Mr A to send in evidence of the physiotherapy  hed had. Mr A did so, but didnt  
get an acknowledgement from Admiral. As he didnt  get the promised call from it either, he 
called Admiral. Admiral didnt accept it was at fault for not making  a call to him. It said Mr A 
had called it within the specified  time-frame,  so there was no need to call him.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr As complaint. He thought  Admiral  had acted 
reasonably in relation to its error in not updating  the policy. He said Admiral would have 
provided cover in the event of a claim, as it accepted  the policy should have been in place  
with the new cars  details  on it. So he didnt  think Admiral should refund Mr As premiums.  
Following further comments from Mr A, the investigator noted that Mr A hadnt called Admiral 
until several weeks after the date its advisor  should have called him back. He also noted that 
the reason Mr As documents werent acknowledged was an error on Admirals part. He 
thought Admiral had provided poor service,  but he didnt think  it had affected the outcome. 
He said even when  Mr A called Admiral  (more  than six weeks  after his call with the advisor)  
he still hadnt been for the scan.  So the delay in contacting him didnt delay the claim.
Mr A said Admiral should have called  him as promised. And he said it shouldnt have told 
him it wasnt upholding that part of his complaint  because hed called it within  three to four 
weeks, as that wasnt  true. 
Mr A asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08387652I think Admiral  dealt  reasonably with the situation  caused by its error  in not updating  the 
policy. It says as the error was on its part, it would have ensured  any incidents that 
happened between  November 2018 and March  2019 were  covered. Thats  the usual way 
insurers deal with issues like this. Admiral  also acknowledged that Mr A faced  distress  and 
inconvenience as a result  of being stopped by the police. I think  the sum it offered him in 
compensation for that was fair. 
I think Admiral  should have acknowledged  receipt of the medical evidence Mr A sent it. And 
it was wrong for it to say Mr A called  it within the period its advisor had set out for calling 
him. But as the investigator has pointed out, when an insurer provides poor service,  we 
consider what impact it had on the consumer. 
In this case, the advisor Mr A spoke to in February 2019 apologised for Admirals  error in 
filing his documents  without acknowledging  their receipt. I think that was a reasonable way 
to deal with the issue.  I can see it would have  been annoying for Mr A to be told by Admiral  
that hed called it too soon  (making a call from it redundant) when that wasnt the case. I 
think it should have  checked the dates more carefully and accepted  that it was at fault.  But I 
dont think the error  merits compensation, as it made no difference  to the outcome. Mr As 
claim wasnt delayed by it, as even by the point he called Admiral in February  2019,  he 
hadnt yet been for the scan. 
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision.  But apart from the major  error  its already 
dealt with, I dont  think Admirals poor service had an impact  that merits compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0838765