K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds decision to stop providing cover 
under his private medical insurance policy for treatment of his haemochromatosis. AXA PPP 
stopped providing cover  because it said his condition was chronic.
background
In 2008, Mr L was diagnosed with hemochromatosis. He stated  undergoing  regular  
venesections.
Mr L later started claiming for the venesections  under his private medical  insurance  policy.  
AXA PPP accepted the claim and began  providing cover.
In December 2016, AXA PPP told Mr L that it considered  his condition to be chronic and 
therefore excluded  from cover under his policy. It said it would continue  to provide cover  until 
February 2017 but not beyond then.
Mr L provided a letter  from his treating consultant disputing  that the condition  was chronic 
and saying that Mr L probably  needed  a further  four or five venesections to reduce his ferritin  
level to the target of 50, at which point  the venesections could stop.
AXA PPP wrote back to Mr L saying  that its position was unchanged.
Mr L went ahead with further treatment for his condition but AXA PPP refused to provide 
cover. Mr L therefore complained to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, AXA 
PPP had acted reasonably.
Mr L didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  He said AXA PPP had been  paying for his 
venesections since 2013. He said if his condition  now met the policys  definition  of chronic, it 
had also been  chronic in 2013 in which case he thought AXA PPP should have advised him 
of this when he first claimed.  Given that it hadnt done so but had simply accepted his claim,  
he thought it should now continue to provide  cover  until his ferritin reached  its target  level.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states  that cover isnt provided  for ongoing, recurring long-term treatment of 
chronic conditions.  The policy  defines  these as follows:
A chronic condition  is a disease, illness or injury that has one or more  of the following 
characteristics:
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups or tests.
Ref: DRN05975162It needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms.
It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it.
It continues indefinitely.
It has no known cure.
It comes  back or is likely to come back.
The policy goes on to state:
What happens if a condition I have is a chronic  condition?
If your condition  is chronic, unfortunately there will be a limit to how long we cover your 
treatment. If we are not able to continue to cover  your treatment, we will tell you beforehand 
so that you can decide  whether to start paying  for the treatment yourself, or to transfer to the 
NHS.
There appears to be some confusion over when AXA PPP started  paying  for Mr Ls 
venesections. He says it was in 2013  whereas AXA PPP says it wasnt  until 2016. However, 
regardless of which date is correct,  Im satisfied that Mr Ls condition met three of the 
characteristics of a chronic  condition in that it needs long-term monitoring, it continues  
indefinitely and, as confirmed on the NHS website, it has no known cure.  This meant  AXA 
PPP was under no obligation  to provide  cover  for its treatment.
AXA PPP nonetheless agreed initially to provide cover, either in 2013 or 2016, but this didnt 
place it under an obligation  to continue providing  cover. AXA PPP decided in December 
2016 that it should no longer continue cover  and it gave Mr Ls two months  notice before 
this decision took effect.  This was fair and in accordance  with the policy  terms. It gave Mr L 
reasonable time to decide whether to start paying  for the treatment  himself  or to transfer to 
the NHS.
Mr L thinks AXA PPP should have continued  to provide cover until his ferritin  level was 
reduced to the target level of 50. I can understand why Mr L would have wanted  AXA PPP to 
do this but it was under no obligation  to do so. Even  once his ferritin level had reached  this 
target, he wouldnt have  been cured  of his condition. He would still require regular monitoring 
and quite possibly  further venesections, albeit not so frequently.
In conclusion, I appreciate  it was inconvenient  for Mr L that AXA PPP withdrew cover for his 
treatment before his ferritin level had been  reduced  to its target figure.  However, Im satisfied 
that AXA PPP acted  fairly and is not liable for any treatment costs which Mr L may have 
incurred after the date on which it said cover for his treatment would stop.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0597516