K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained about the quality of a van he acquired using a finance agreement  with 
Lombard North Central PLC.
background 
On 11 July 2016, Mr S took out finance with Lombard for a van. But unfortunately,  he 
experienced a number  of problems with it. As Lombard has accepted  this, I dont think  it 
necessary to describe them in detail here. What is in dispute though, is what should be done 
to put things right.
Our investigator looked into what had happened, and was satisfied the van wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. She recommended that Lombard should:
take back the van and end the agreement;
refund  the deposit of £3,555; 
refund  10% of the monthly repayments from October 2016 onwards;
pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement;  and
pay £150 for the inconvenience caused.
However, it then appears there was some  miscommunication with the company Lombard 
instructed to collect the van. Unfortunately, it was collected almost immediately, which  didnt 
give Mr S time to make  alternative arrangements. Lombard acknowledged  that this caused 
further inconvenience to Mr S, so said it would increase the compensation for trouble and 
upset from £150  to £500. It also said it would  pay £250 for a tow bar that was installed on 
the van, £52 for petrol, and £95.16  for the daily usage of the van - that hed paid for but not 
had due to it being collected,  plus £195  for an inspection  report.
Our investigator thought this was fair. She agreed that Mr S should  receive  additional 
compensation because of the van being  picked  up earlier than it should have been.  She 
noted that Mr S had explained hed had to hire a van until he could get a new one  and this 
looked unprofessional as he used  the van for work.  But she said shed only have expected  
Lombard to wait a week or two before collecting the van, not up to 12 weeks. Twelve weeks 
is the amount  of time Mr S said it would take him to buy a replacement van of the same size, 
as hed need to place  a factory  order, which takes  around 12 weeks  to be fulfilled. He said 
he should receive compensation to address this  a 12 week  van rental  at £300 a week, 
minus three monthly repayments of £219.65  so £2,941.05. But our investigator said that to 
end the agreement, the van would need  to be collected. And shed  set this out in her initial  
view of the complaint,  so she felt Mr S had notice.  She thought  the extra £350 for collecting 
the van early was fair.
Mr S agreed with the proposed  resolution, except the £500 for trouble and upset. He felt this 
was too low. In summary, this was because  he felt Lombard had delayed  resolving things, so 
the matter had gone on for years rather than months. He felt it hadnt handled his complaint 
appropriately, and had referred  him back to the dealership, without taking  responsibility  itself 
for the quality of the van. He explained the matter has taken him considerable time to deal 
with, and hes lost sleep. He also said that he was aware the van would need to be collected, 
but until his deposit was returned, he wouldnt be able to buy a replacement. He thought  he 
should have had warning before the van was collected, but this didnt happen, and the van 
was collected  on a Friday evening, when  he had work commitments over the weekend  and 
Ref: DRN08913452the following  week. He feels hes been left thousands of pounds  out-of-pocket, through no 
fault of his own.
Mr S also explained  he had the van serviced.  He could have paid for a cheaper full service,  
but chose to pay more for a major service, as he was still unsure if he would have to keep 
the faulty vehicle. So he feels £56 of this cost should be refunded.
Further, Mr S asked  to be refunded for additional  insurance that had been paid, for a 
courtesy van, while the faulty van was being  repaired.
The complaints now been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that there  were  problems with the van. And both Mr S and Lombard have 
agreed with the majority of the proposed redress (which I understand has already been 
paid). I therefore dont  intend to interfere with this, and I agree its fair, given the costs 
incurred by Mr S for a faulty  van. But what I do need to discuss and make a decision about,  
is how much  compensation is fair for the trouble and upset caused. Ive also thought about 
the cost of the service, the courtesy van insurance,  and how whats  happened should be 
reflected on Mr Ss credit file. Further, Mr S incurred a £40 charge for moving his insurance 
over when he got a new van.
I agree  that this matter has, understandably, caused Mr S considerable trouble and upset, 
including regarding the collection of the van. But I agree that £500 is fair to address this. I 
think its a significant  sum,  and in line with what our service would award  in similar  
circumstances. So Im not going  to ask Lombard  to pay anything  more regarding this. Im 
also aware that Mr S has explained he couldnt buy a new van, until he had the deposit back 
for the faulty one. Although I understand this, I also think  it would have been  unfair for me to 
expect Lombard  to give this back while he still had the faulty  van. It is reasonable for it not to 
pay this until the van was collected.  Nor do I think I can reasonably hold Lombard  
responsible for the 12 week wait time for a new van, as it was Mr Ss decision  to opt for that 
particular one.
As regards  the cost of the major service, I dont agree that Lombard  to contribute  towards  
this. Mr S decided to opt for this, when he knew the van could well be returned. I accept he 
didnt know for sure,  but I think  he made the decision, knowing the risk.
Typically, I may well agree that the extra  insurance paid for a courtesy van should be 
refunded to Mr S. But as our investigator explained, he didnt  pay this money. His parents 
paid it, and although he paid them back,  they then transferred the money  back  to him. As 
this is Mr Ss complaint,  I can only refund him his losses. I know this will be very frustrating 
for him, but Im afraid  theres  nothing  I am able to award for this.
However, Mr S did pay £40 when he transferred his insurance over from the old van, to his 
new one. He wouldnt have had to pay this, had his initial van not been faulty. So I think  he 
should also be awarded this cost.
Ref: DRN08913453As regards  Mr Ss credit file, Lombard has confirmed the agreement will not appear on it. I 
agree this is fair, as its been  cancelled.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint  in part. Lombard  
North Central PLC has already paid Mr S:
£3555  in respect of the deposit; 
£195 for the inspection report;  
£250 for the tow bar; 
£52 for diesel, 
£95.16 daily usage, 
20 payments of £21.97 totalling £439.40;  
£32.51 in interest, minus £6.50  tax; and 
£500 compensation for trouble and upset.
It has also confirmed the agreement will not appear on Mr Ss credit file.
It must also pay him £40 for the change in insurance, adding  8% simple a year from the date 
Mr S made the payment,  to the date of settlement.
If it has not done any of the above,  it must do so now.
As Lombard North Central PLC has withheld income tax from those parts of the award 
constituting the 8% interest, it should  also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Mr S should  refer back to Lombard North Central  PLC if hes unsure  of the approach  it has 
taken, and both parties  should contact HMRC if they want to know more  about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0891345