K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained Nationwide Building  Society  wont refund over £10,000 of debit card 
transactions which she didnt make  or authorise.
background
Miss G was a victim of domestic abuse.  She discovered her ex-partner had used her debit 
card for numerous transactions between October  2016 and May 2017. She asked 
Nationwide to refund these  amounts  as she hadnt made them  or authorised him to make 
them. These totalled £10,256.23 and there were a lot of cash  machine withdrawals. She felt 
Nationwide should  have spotted the very different use being  made  of the debit card.
Nationwide didnt think it would be right to refund the transactions  as they didnt believe 
Miss G had been a victim of fraud. Nationwides internal  notes show  they didnt believe 
Miss G had reported what had happened  in a timely  manner. They also pointed  out 
genuine spend carried out within a short  period of fraudulent spend. Overall they didnt 
believe Miss G had kept her card and PIN securely so wouldnt refund her.
Miss G brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  At this stage, criminal proceedings 
were being  pursued  against her ex-partner following a domestic  incident  and the report of 
theft following  his use of her card and PIN. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. He initially felt there was a possibility  that Miss G 
has made these transactions or authorised  them herself. He therefore couldnt ask 
Nationwide to refund her. Miss G was upset with this news and asked an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.
During the time her case has been  waiting  to be reviewed, her ex-partner  admitted the 
offences in court in September 2018.  He was ordered to pay Miss G £6,000 as 
compensation for [your] loss and damage caused. Our adjudicator tried to clarify why only 
£6,000 had been ordered as Miss Gs monetary loss exceeded that amount. After some  
limited clarification, it seemed that compromises had been made by the court  in exchange 
for an admittance of guilt. Her ex-partner  was also required to complete a large number of 
hours of unpaid community work. The court  didnt  suggest this was in full settlement of what  
had happened  to Miss G. 
Our adjudicator approached Nationwide to see whether theyd now be willing to settle 
Miss Gs claim. They wouldnt.
I now have all the information I need to complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a different 
conclusion to our adjudicators initial  view.  Ive already been in touch with Nationwide and 
Miss G to tell them this. Ill explain my reasoning.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent when looking after their card 
Ref: DRN01687572and PIN. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly  in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the transactions 
themselves, the evidence  presented to us by Miss G and what  the court  has shared. I can 
confirm all the evidence  from the court has also been shared with Nationwide.
This confirms that Miss Gs ex-partner admitted  fraud and stealing £10,256.23 from Miss G. 
Specifically the court  documents  state:
 having formed a fraudulent scheme  to obtain money, goods and service on various  
occasions between  10 October 2016 and 21 May 2017 both dates inclusive .. did use the 
debit card belonging to [Miss G]  to withdraw  money and pay for goods and services and 
did obtain said money, goods  and services by fraud and theft.
It would be unusual for our service  to ignore a court conviction and I see no reason for doing  
that here.  This seems to me to present clear evidence  that Miss G didnt authorise or make  
these transactions  herself. Ive already confirmed I think this to be the case to Nationwide.
Ive also seen the court confirm that it was the debit  card relating  to Miss Gs Nationwide  
account and no other,  as Nationwide implied at different times.  
Miss G provided us with a copy of her court statement showing that by end-October 2019 
she had been  paid a total of £2,200. She also told me there  have been months when her ex-
partner has made no payment at all. The court may consider further enforcement  action 
which may result in imprisonment. This means  it would be even less likely Miss G would 
receive payments  due to her.
Nationwide has asked  why Miss G wasnt awarded the full amount by the court. Although  we 
have tried to get further clarification direct  with them, weve not been  able to get a complete 
answer. I think there was a compromise  made between getting  her ex-partner to admit  to a 
criminal act and awarding full reimbursement to Miss G. A criminal  courts role can be more  
concerned with punishing the guilty than making  sure full restitution is given to the victim. I 
believe this may be what  happened here.
In any case under the Payment Services Regulations, the obligation is on Nationwide  to 
refund Miss G for her loss when  she didnt make or authorise these transactions,  if there was 
no gross  negligence  involved.
Ive considered whether gross negligence was involved here.  Specifically Ive considered  
that Nationwide believe Miss G has been grossly  negligent. Theyve stated  previously:
member has acted with gross negligence by failing to report  the fraud within  a timely 
manner, failure to check their statements or balance and the member has not kept the card 
secure due to multiple times the card has had fraud spend and genuine spend on the same  
day.
Ive reminded Nationwide  that the test for gross  negligence is a high bar to get over.  And 
none of what they appear to be accusing Miss G of seem to me to be gross negligence.  
Ref: DRN01687573Ive also looked  at the specific circumstances  of this case. Ive seen  evidence  from an 
independent domestic abuse advocacy  service providing support to victims  that supported 
Miss G after being referred  by the police. Theyve said due to the nature of the domestic  
incident there has been a detrimental impact on both Miss [Gs] financial situation and her 
health/well-being.
Miss G had raised the issue  that Nationwide never picked up the unusual expenditure on her 
card. I told her I didnt  think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong.  The genuine card and PIN 
were used and there was no overall  pattern to the fraud (nor were any purchases  for what 
can be seen as more  standard fraud  activity  for example  like gambling, high-value  goods).
This has all been extremely upsetting  for Miss G. Obviously a lot of this is down  to her ex-
partner but I believe  Nationwide has also played  their part. All this has been  going on for 
more than three years. 
I have been surprised at the lack of empathy in Nationwides correspondence with Miss G. 
They may not have  considered her a victim  of fraud but all the evidence, including  a court 
conviction for her ex-partner, shows this to be massively incorrect.  Theyve been given an 
opportunity to sort this out both by our adjudicator earlier this year and again when I raised  
this them.  I left Nationwide  in little doubt  where  my decision would be going. I asked them  to 
pay her £750 in total as compensation for the distress I believe their actions caused her.
They disagreed with this amount as they didnt think they could have done anything  
differently and the delays where  outside  of our control. I dont think this is true. Miss G could 
have had one part of this awful case resolved a good while  ago if Nationwide had done  the 
right thing.
I explained to Nationwide  that how much  I would ask them to refund would depend on how 
much Miss G had received from the court. In principle,  Nationwide  will have to repay all of 
the £10,256.23 plus 8% simple interest from the date the money was taken  from her account 
to the date of settlement minus  what  Miss G may have received from the court.  Weve  had it 
confirmed that Miss G has received £2,200 from the court so Nationwide need to repay her 
£8,056.23 plus 8% simple  interest.
Ive explained  to Miss G that Nationwide may want to come to some  arrangement  with her 
that they repay her this full amount  then debit her monthly when or if she receives  money 
from the court. She understands this. From  her point of view, the resolution I propose at 
least means she gets the money upfront to replace her financial loss; albeit a couple  of years 
late.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Nationwide Building Society to:
Refund Miss G £8,056.23 for the transactions she didnt make;
Come to some arrangement with Miss G that enables her to repay  them any future 
monthly payments  she may get from the court, if they wish;
Add 8% simple interest to £10,256.23 from the dates  the amounts were  debited to 
Miss Gs account until the date of settlement and repay that amount to Miss G; and
Pay Miss G £750 for the distress caused.
Ref: DRN01687574Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0168757