K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc lost his cash deposit of £720.
background
Mr H says that in June 2017  he deposited  £720 in cash  at a branch  of the Post Office  (the 
banking side of that business  is run by Bank of Ireland). He says this was made up of £500 
in £2 coins and the balance was in £1 coins. He received a receipt which  included  the figure 
£0 and the word DECLINED in capitals. He says he questioned this at the time but was told 
by the cashier  that it would be fine. In January 2019  he complained that the money had not 
been credited  to his account.
The bank did not accept that the money had been deposited. It pointed out that the receipt 
says that the deposit was declined, and said it had no other  record  of the money. The bank 
contacted the Post Office  branch, which reported that the cash  would have been returned to 
Mr H that same day. So the bank inferred that Mr Hs recollection of what happened must be 
mistaken. Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mr H brought this complaint to our Service.
The bank pointed  out that Mr Hs accounts terms and conditions  said that missing payments 
would not be refunded  unless they were  reported within 13 months, and Mr H had not acted 
within that time. The bank argued that if Mr H had raised the matter earlier,  then branch staff 
would have been more likely to recall his visit (especially  because of the unusually large 
number of coins). If he had really been  concerned about whether  the money would be 
credited to his account, because of what the receipt said, then it was likely that he would 
have checked  up on this much sooner. The fact that he didnt suggested that he had not left 
the coins at the branch, but had taken them away with him. There was no evidence to show  
otherwise.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said the bank was entitled  to rely on the 
13 month time limit, so he didnt think the bank had been wrong to decline to give a refund  
especially since the bank  had sent Mr H a statement in March  2018, within  13 months of his 
visit. But he also considered what evidence there  was about what had happened to the 
money. He thought that since the receipt  said £0 and declined, this probably meant that 
no money had been  deposited. So on the balance of probabilities,  he decided that the cash  
would have been returned to Mr H.
Mr H remained  adamant that he remembered depositing the money. He said when  he 
questioned the receipt,  the cashier told him the machine  often did this and not to worry as 
[the money]  would still go through  to my account  correctly as the machine sometimes  played 
up. He accepted that answer at the time.  He said he had just forgotten  about  it by the time 
he received his next statement, in 2018,  and he only remembered it 12 months later when 
he got the next annual  statement. At that time,  he looked for the receipt, but couldnt  find it 
and gave up. A few months later he found the receipt by chance (on which he had 
handwritten £720 while in the branch), and that is when  he raised the matter with the bank. 
He argued that the 13 month  time limit should  not apply, describing it as a get out of jail 
clause. He suggested  that there  would  have been  no need to give him a receipt  for a 
transaction that didnt happen. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  Later on, in 
December 2019,  he referred us to a case in which the High Court had held that the Post 
Offices computers were unreliable.
Ref: DRN07158522my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The case  Mr H mentioned  to us is Bates & others v Post Office Limited.1 The judgement is 
over 300 pages long, not including the appendices. In summary, the High Court  made  
detailed findings  of fact  based on the evidence  of expert witnesses and of current and 
former employees of the Post Office  about a number of problems (described in 29 
categories) with the Post Offices accounting software, Horizon  Online. In paragraph 455 the 
judge says that during a pilot of the software in 2010, there  was a problem involving cash  
withdrawals being  authorised on screen yet the printed receipt being declined and a similar 
problem with a cash deposit.  That sounds like the exact same problem Mr H described 
happening to him, months before that judgement was issued.
Numerous other problems continued  with the software for years  after the pilot ended, some 
of them  as recently as 2018 (see for example Appendix 1, paragraphs 218-226). On 
average, 2,000 manual  corrections to transactions had to be made a week (paragraph  
1027). So although Mr Hs visit to the branch did not occur  during the pilot, I cant  rule out 
the possibility  that the problem with cash deposits being authorised, and yet still generating 
receipts saying they had been declined, may have continued to recur.
For these reasons, I think that the receipt  has very little probative value, and perhaps none 
at all, because  it might be wrong.  That is not proof that the receipt is wrong  only that it 
could be. I have no way of verifying  whether it is correct or not. But because  it is clearly 
unreliable, I will disregard it, and consider the rest of the evidence  to resolve this complaint.
Mr Hs recollection of events is also evidence of what happened.  But again, I have no way of 
knowing how reliable his recollection is. The fact that the deposit  does not appear  on his 
account could  mean  that the Post Office  took it and failed to credit it to his account, as he 
alleges, or it could  just mean that the Post Office did not accept the deposit. There  is now no 
way of knowing, and I think that the long delay  in raising this matter has made it more 
difficult to find out. If Mr H had raised  the matter a short  time afterwards,  then the member of 
staff who dealt with him might have remembered it  and indeed, Mr Hs own memory  would  
have been much more  reliable, because the events would  have been recent and fresh in his 
mind. But as it is, passage of time means that no one at the branch now recalls what 
happened, and so they have had to rely on their records, which are unreliable. And I am not 
satisfied that it would be safe or fair of me to rely on Mr Hs memory  of what  happened  now 
(although I am well aware that he does not share my doubts about  that).
That might well be the reason, or at least one of the reasons,  for the 13 month time limit on 
claiming a refund for an incomplete transaction. If complied with, it helps to ensure that 
matters are investigated while memories are fresh and before the trail goes cold.  So for that 
reason, I dont think it is unfair of Bank of Ireland to rely on the time limit. I might  have taken 
a different view about that if the bank  had made  no efforts at all to investigate what  
happened, but the bank did what it could, and Im satisfied that it has made  reasonable 
efforts to check what Mr H told it. As it was still unable to find evidence to support Mr Hs 
claim for a refund, I do not think the bank did anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly by 
relying on this rule.
1 [2019] EWHC 3408 (QB),  and see https://www.judiciary.uk/judgments/bates-others-v-post-office/
Ref: DRN07158523I am reinforced in that opinion by the following matters. Firstly, the 13 month time limit is not 
just in the terms and conditions  of Mr Hs account, it is also to be found  in regulations. The 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  are relevant to this complaint. (The 2017 regulations, 
which replaced the 2009 regulations, did not come into force until 13 January 2018, and only 
apply to transactions occurring on or after that date.)  Regulation 59 says that a person is 
only entitled to a refund under the regulations if he asks for one no later than 13 months 
after the debit  date . So it isnt just a rule that the bank has made  up, it is the law.
Secondly, the time limit is actually more demanding than that. Regulation 59 actually says 
that a refund  must  be claimed without  undue  delay  on becoming aware of the problem. 
(That has also been included in the account  terms and conditions.)  So the 13 month time 
limit is just a maximum; it doesnt mean you can wait for nearly 13 months  and then claim a 
refund.
On his own account of events,  Mr H did not act without undue delay once he became aware  
of the problem. Even if I discounted the fact that he didnt act within the 13 month time limit, 
I still could not ignore  his choice not to bring the matter to the banks attention until he found 
the receipt, which was months after he first became aware that the £720 had not been 
credited to his account. Of course,  I understand why he wanted to find the receipt first, but 
the bank could still have undertaken an investigation  without it.
Finally, Mr Hs own conduct after the branch visit is also evidence. If he had really  left the 
cash in the branch and had been concerned  about  the receipt saying declined, then I think 
it is likely  that he would  have asked for confirmation  of the deposit shortly afterwards. 
Instead he took no further action, and thereafter the visit seems  to have left his mind until 
over a year later. That supports the banks case that he did not deposit the money after all. 
So this isnt simply a case of a bank evading  a meritorious case  by hiding behind  a time limit. 
The evidence in this case is, at best,  inconclusive,  and so I dont think  the bank fell into error 
by declining  a refund.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715852