K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that N26 Bank GmbH  wont refund him after he tried to make  a withdrawal at 
a cash machine and the amount that debited his account wasnt  dispensed in full.
background
On 12 April Mr B tried to make a cash withdrawal of £250 but only received  £170. So, he 
contacted his account and card provider, N26 Bank GmbH.
N26 raised a chargeback  with the cash machine provider and Mr B was given a refund of the 
missing £80 on 7 May.  N26 told him the refund had been disputed  successfully . However, 
the cash machine  provider put the transaction through again on 12 June, and £80 re-debited 
Mr Bs account. N26 said they couldnt do anything further until the cash machine provider 
had sent them the evidence to show whether  the machine had dispensed the cash.
Mr B said the re-debiting left him short of money,  and he struggled to buy essentials for his 
family.
In their final response N26 said the cash machine  provider had sent them the journal  roll (a 
log of cash machine activity)  showing that the full £250 had been dispensed, so they 
wouldnt be offering  to compensate Mr B.
Mr B wasnt  happy with what N26 had done, so he brought  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator asked  N26 to gather further information from the cash machine  provider.  
Specifically, about  the machines balance and purge  bin (the purge bin is where retracted or 
damaged notes are returned).
The balance statement showed  that there was £110  in the machines purge bin on 18 April, 
six days after Mr B had made his withdrawal.  So, the investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint.  
He concluded  that the surplus cash in the machines purge bin, more  likely than not, 
included Mr Bs £80. He said that N26 should  refund this money. He also said N26 should 
pay Mr B an additional  £100 to reflect  the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
handling of his claim.
N26 disagreed.  N26 said theyd followed the chargeback  process as they should  have  done,  
and they couldnt have  given Mr B notice of, or prevented,  the re-debiting  of the money  by 
the card machine provider. They accepted that Mr Bs funds could have  been  in the purge 
bin, but said:
 these funds are retained  by [the cash machine provider]. N26 is not in possession 
of these funds  and therefore  cannot  return them  Mr B was a customer  of [the cash 
machine provider] when he made the transaction using their machine, and [they] are 
holding the funds  Because of this, N26 believes  that this complaint should be 
against [the cash machine provider], not N26, and disagrees with your findings  We 
also believe  that any compensation for distress and inconvenience  should  be paid by 
[the cash machine  provider].
Our investigator responded to N26 explaining  theyre responsible  for refunding  Mr B in the 
circumstances, and if they later reclaim the money  from the cash machine provider thats  at 
their discretion. The investigator said Mr B doesnt have a relationship with the cash machine 
Ref: DRN03688492provider, because they arent  the ones providing  him with a payment service, so the correct 
process is for him to complain to his bank, N26.
N26 didnt provide any further comments but asked for an ombudsman to review  everything.  
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
the investigator that this complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why.
Can we consider the complaint against N26 Bank  GmbH?
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman are set by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (the FCA), in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules. These set out 
when we can  and cant  look into complaints. Ill explain what  this means for Mr Bs 
complaint.
We can only look into complaints that are bought  to us by or on behalf of eligible 
complainants. There are two parts to the eligibility rules. Mr B meets the first part of the rules 
because he is a consumer as defined in DISP.  The second part of the rules  (DISP 2.7.6)  
says that to be an eligible complainant a person must have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more specified  relationships with the respondent. The first 
relationship listed  in the rules is the one relevant  to this case:
(1) the complainant  is (or was) a customer,  payment service user or electronic 
money holder  of the respondent;
The italicised words  are each defined in DISP.
payment service user  has the same  meaning as it does in the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs).  It refers  to a person when making use of a payment 
service in the capacity  of payer, payee , or both.
respondent  includes  a payment service  provider.
The term payment  service provider takes  its meaning from the PSRs and refers to certain  
institutions and providers who carry out payment services. The term payment service  also 
takes its meaning from the PSRs.
Services which enable cash withdrawals from a payment account  and all of the operations  
required for operating  a payment account,  are activities which constitute payment services.  
This includes withdrawals of cash from payment accounts through  a cash machine. And the 
issuing of payment  instruments (such as a bank  card)  is also a payment  service.
But there are several activities which do not constitute payment services. These are listed in 
PSRs Schedule 1, Part 2 and include the following:
(o) cash withdrawal services  provided through automatic  teller  machines, where the 
provider
(i)  is acting on behalf of one or more card issuers;
Ref: DRN03688493(ii)  is not party to the framework contract with the customer  withdrawing 
money from a payment  account; and
(iii)  does not conduct any other payment  service.
This means  that when Mr B was withdrawing cash on 12 April he was making  use of a 
payment service provided by N26. There was no payment service being  provided by the 
cash machine provider. Indeed, Mr B has no relationship with the cash machine provider on 
which he could base  a complaint about  cash not being dispensed. But he does have the 
required relationship  with N26 as the business who operated his payment  account,  provided 
services to enable withdrawals and issued his card.
Taking all of this into account  I consider, as the investigator did, that N26 is the correct  
respondent body  in this case,  and that this service  has the jurisdiction to consider Mr Bs 
complaint against  them.
Did Mr B receive from the cash machine the full amount that debited his account?
In cases where there is a dispute over whether  cash was dispensed or not there is certain  
documentary evidence  that can be looked at. This usually includes the journal roll for the 
cash machine, the balance  history and the purge  bin report.
We expect banks to obtain,  or make reasonable endeavours to obtain, this evidence and 
make use of it to decide whether their customer  is due a refund. We also expect  banks to 
raise questions of the cash  machine provider about  the machine. For example, whether  
there were reports of faults  or other complaints about the machine. In short, N26,  as Mr Bs 
bank, had a responsibility to investigate his claim as fully as possible.
In this case N26 left the entire dispute to the chargeback process  and only requested  the 
journal roll after the re-debit. Its not clear on what basis  N26 thought the refund  had been  
disputed successfully  initially because it hadnt, at that point, examined any evidence to 
determine one way or the other whether Mr Bs claim had merit. In fact, N26 only sought 
further evidence  from the card machine  provider  at our investigators request.
In light of that I think N26 ought to have been more  circumspect  about the refund and 
cautioned Mr B that it might only be temporary,  but their communications suggested the 
initial refund was the end of the matter. This meant  Mr B was understandably shocked and 
unprepared when the re-debit occurred on 12 June.
Having viewed the further evidence obtained;  the balance  statement, I agree with the 
investigator that its more  likely than not Mr B only received £170 cash  on 12 April when he 
was charged £250. I think the difference, £80, failed to dispense correctly and remained in 
the purge  bin until the machine was balanced on 18 April. The journal roll shows that the 
very next transaction at this cash machine was also Mr B, and I think its unlikely he would 
have made  a second withdrawal if all the cash hed needed had been dispensed the first 
time round. The evidence  also suggests that if Mr B received £170, the remaining £80 
wouldve been made up of four £20 notes,  and thats the number  of £20 notes that were  
found in the purge bin.
N26 do not dispute that the balance statement provided by the cash machine provider shows 
that £110 was in the purge bin at the time the machine was balanced  on 18 April,  and that 
these funds could  belong to Mr B. But theyve  said its the cash machine  provider,  not them, 
Ref: DRN03688494who are responsible for this. They say theyre  not in possession of these  funds and therefore 
cannot return them to Mr B.
I disagree. As a customer of N26 Mr B had to use his card in a third-partys cash machine 
because N26 do not have a network of cash machines in the UK. But he didnt receive the 
full amount of cash. N26 are responsible for this as his payment service  provider.
I also find that N26s poor investigation of this dispute, and their subsequent reluctance to 
accept responsibility  for refunding Mr B, caused unnecessary delay.
Putting things  right
Mr B has said that when the £80 was re-debited on 12 June this caused him to become 
overdrawn on his account and he couldnt buy the things he needed  for his family. As Ive 
mentioned above,  the re-debit would have come  as a shock  to Mr B because N26 had 
previously given him no indication the refund might be temporary.  By failing to investigate his 
claim fully at the outset,  and leaving him unprepared for the re-debit,  I think N26 caused  
Mr B some distress and inconvenience.
N26 Bank GmbH should:
Refund the £80 that failed to dispense from the cash machine;
Pay Mr B interest on the £80 at the rate of 8% simple a year payable from the date it 
debited Mr Bs account until the date its returned. This is to compensate Mr B for the 
time he was without his money;
Pay Mr B £100 compensation.
If N26 considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest element  of this award, it should  tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I direct  N26 Bank GmbH to put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0368849