K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains, in summary, that Provident Personal Credit  Limited,  trading as Satsuma 
Loans, (SL), ignored his request for help with his loan account.
background
Mr H took out a loan from SL on 2 February  2018 for £500. It was due to be repaid by 
11 monthly payments  of £90.50. Mr H missed  his first monthly payment on his account as 
hed set up his repayment wrongly. He contacted SL and asked  for a weekly  repayment 
schedule in April 2018. SL agreed that he could repay £25 per week  from 20 April 2018. 
Mr H then made his first seven repayments  on the due date. Before  his eighth repayment 
was due he contacted SL to say his account  was showing as overdue and he asked for an 
explanation. SL replied to his query two days later and said that his email had been sent to 
the relevant department but gave him a phone number and alternative email address to 
contact if his query was urgent. Eight days later SL then asked Mr H to confirm  his details for 
security. SL said that these details werent received. In the meantime Mr H had made his 
eighth repayment on 10 June 2018,  but he made no repayments after that.
SL sent Mr H an arrears  letter and a Notice of Sums in Arrears  on 2 August  2018. 
Two months  later on 2 October 2018, Mr H contacted SL by email  to ask it to email him so 
he could set up an arrangement.  Hed been struggling financially but he said that he was 
able to set up an arrangement  at that time. SL responded to ask for details for security which 
Mr H provided  on 4 October 2018.  On the previous day, SL had sent Mr H a notice of 
default. On 6 October 2018, SL emailed Mr H to say that it had passed  Mr Hs email  to the 
relevant department but it also gave him a phone number and alternative email address to 
contact if his query was urgent.
On 11 October 2018 SL responded to Mr Hs email  by telling him his arrears were £433.50 
and asking him to respond to five questions  including whether there had been a change  in 
his circumstances,  whether any change was short or long term and whether his priority bills 
were affected. Around four hours later Mr H sent a complaint to SL saying hed received a 
Notice of Default that day which he asked SL to retract as hed emailed it for help on a 
number of occasions without a reply.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H disagreed. He said that he had tried to make plans to repay  the account and SL 
couldnt provide  evidence  of his continued  contact.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have set out the detail of the communications between  the parties above. Mr H has sent us 
copies of the emails  he sent to SL and SL has sent us its contact  notes which contained the 
content of its emails. The notes also documented the dates  that SLs initial  arrears letter, 
Notice of Sums in Arrears and default notice were sent to Mr H although copies of these 
havent been sent to us. I accept that the dates  shown on the contact notes evidence  the 
dates that they were  sent to Mr H.
Ref: DRN04313132I can see that Mr H contacted SL about his account  showing as overdue in June 2018.  I 
cant see that he mentioned any financial difficulty to SL at the time. It doesnt look like he 
then responded  to SLs email asking for details for security checks. So his query didnt 
progress. I cant say that SL acted unreasonably here. 
SL sent a Notice  of Sums in Arrears  and an arrears letter to Mr H in early  August 2018. But 
Mr H doesnt appear  to have responded to this until two months later.
I can see that Mr H sent SL an email on 2 October 2018 asking to set up an arrangement.  I 
can see that SL responded  promptly to ask for security details. Mr H sent these to it but in 
the meantime  SL had issued a default  notice. 
A lender can issue a default notice when  at least three repayments  have  been  missed which 
was the case  here. Mr Hs repayment history wasnt good from the beginning of the loan. He 
missed his first monthly repayment and then he didnt made  any repayments after 
10 June 2018.  I cant see that Mr H tried to make any contact  with SL about  his arrears after 
that until almost four months later. Mr H must have known hed missed these payments, but 
he didnt bring  his account up to date or contact SL about his financial difficulties until 
October 2018. In the circumstances, I dont think I can say that Mr Hs account was unfairly 
defaulted.  
A default notice warns  that an account is about  to default because a borrower is behind with 
his repayments.  But it will give the borrower time to catch up with any missed repayments. I 
note that Mr H said he was working  full time earning £32,000 to £40,000 per annum at the 
time, so he told us that he could afford  to pay the arrears off. Even if the default  notice hadnt 
arrived until 11 October 2018 which was the date Mr H said hed received it, it seems that he 
still had time to repay the arrears  before  the notice became effective.
I note that Mr H said that SL completely showed  a lack of communication  resulting in his 
account falling into arrears. But as Ive shown  above, SL did agree a new repayment  
schedule with Mr H in April 2018 after hed missed his first repayment and it asked for 
security details in June 2018 to progress Mr Hs query about  his account being  shown  as 
overdue. But these werent provided at the time. SL also gave Mr H information about his 
arrears in August  2018. And it requested  more  information from Mr H about his financial 
difficulties within nine days of his request for an arrangement in October 2018. But Mr H 
didnt respond  to the request. SL had also suggested to Mr H four days  after his query that if 
the matter was urgent he should  phone  or use a different email address which I cant see he 
did. So overall,  I dont  think that SL showed  a lack of communication  and I cant say that SL 
was responsible for Mr Hs account falling into arrears.
I note that SL said in its final response letter that it wasnt  satisfied  with the time taken to 
respond to Mr H but it has apologised for this. And it also said in that letter  that although the 
emails were responded  to late, there was still time for Mr B to prevent the default. Ive 
referred to this above. 
So, overall I dont  think that SL has acted unfairly here. I appreciate  Mr H will be very 
disappointed with the decision I have come  to here but for the reasons explained I dont think  
I can uphold the complaint.  Mr H may wish to continue his dispute with SL but if he does, he 
will need  to do so through other  means as this decision represents the last stage in our 
process.
Ref: DRN04313133my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0431313