K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about how Admiral Insurance  Company Limited handled a windscreen claim 
on his motor insurance policy. 
Admiral had agents dealing with this claim.  For simplicity Ive referred to actions of the 
agents as being those  of Admiral. 
background
In June 2020 I issued a provisional decision for this complaint. It forms part of this final 
decision, so Ive attached  a copy.  In it I said why I intended to require Admiral to pay Mr B 
£600 in total. I also asked  Admiral and Mr B if they had any further information, they would 
like me to consider.  
Admiral said it had nothing to provide. Mr B provided  some comments. Ive responded to 
those below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the provisional  decision  I described  Mr Bs car as a small sports car. He says this isnt 
correct. I apologise  for the inaccurate  description.  When describing it I was trying to explain 
my understanding that the car means  more to him than perhaps  the average  car does to the 
average owner. I still think the same following being given a better description. The specific 
style of the car doesnt make  a difference to the outcome. 
Mr B said Admiral should pay for replacement door cards. I explained in my provisional  
decision that he hadnt provided enough  to show Admiral was responsible for any additional 
damage  including to the door cards. Mr B hasnt provided anything  more in response.  So I 
still cant say Admirals  decision  not to cover  that cost is unfair  even if it did previously 
indicate it might do so. 
In the provisional  decision  I said Admiral  will need  to pay Mr B £300 to compensate  for him 
not being able to use his own car. I explained  why I wasnt asking  it to pay more   in 
summary because he hadnt  reported  any extra transport  costs and had access to other  
cars.  
In response Mr B says he should be paid £15 per day. He says he needed his car to get to 
regular medical  treatment. Ive considered what he says. But he has said he was able to use 
other cars in his household or get lifts from family  members. Ive considered  everything hes 
said  but for the same reasons - I still think  £300  is enough. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Admiral Insurance Company Limited need to pay Mr B £300  to 
recognise the loss of enjoyment of his car and £300 to recognise  the unncessary  distress 
and inconvienance  it caused him*. If its already paid him any of the compensation previously  
offered it can deduct that from what it needs  to pay. 
Ref: DRN01020102Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
*Admiral Insurance Company Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Bs accepted my final decision. If it pays 
later than this it should add interest  at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision to the date it makes  
payment. 
Ref: DRN01020103PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr B complains about how Admiral Insurance  Company Limited handled a windscreen claim 
on his motor insurance policy. 
Admiral had agents dealing with this claim.  For simplicity Ive referred to actions of the 
agents as being those  of Admiral. 
background
In January 2018 Mr B claimed for a damaged windscreen on his Admiral  motor insurance 
policy. The screen  was replaced. Shortly after Mr B reported  that the replacement was 
ineffective. Admiral agreed to a further  replacement.  That took a number of months.  
Eventually Mr B arranged his own replacement. Admiral covered that cost. 
Mr B complained to Admiral that its initial repair had caused additional damage to his car  
including to the frame, bodywork and trims. He says it took so long to replace the ineffective  
windscreen that the interior of the car suffered water damage from rain. He also said the 
additional damage meant hed been unable to use the car for almost  a year. It seems  
Admiral initially agreed  to cover the cost of this damage. It also offered to compensate him 
for not being  able to use his car for about six months. 
But Admiral  withdrew those offers. Instead  it said it wouldnt cover the additional damage 
without something to show it was responsible. It also said Mr B needed to explain and show  
why the car was unusable. Admiral still feels Mr B hasnt done enough to show  either. But it 
has offered him £20 to cover phone calls - and £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused it caused him. 
Mr B was unhappy with that. He feels Admiral has provided a very poor service.  He wants  it 
to pay him about  £6,000 in total. Thats to cover the cost of repairing the additional  damage  
and compensation  for being  unable  to use the car. 
Our Investigator  considered the complaint. He felt Admiral should cover  some of the repair 
costs  damage to the framework around  the window. But he hadnt  seen  enough to make 
him think Admiral was probably  responsible  for any other damage. He didnt recommend it 
pay anything to recognise Mr B being  unable to use the car for a period. He felt the £150 
compensation already offered was enough  to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
Admiral had caused. 
Mr B didnt accept what the Investigator said  neither did Admiral. So the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As I explained above Admiral has changed its position. I can understand why thats very 
frustrating for Mr B. But its entitled  to do so if it wishes.  It wasnt required, by a final decision 
Ref: DRN01020104from this service or something similar, to cover the additional damage  or pay compensation 
for loss of use his car.
Admiral wants  to see something to show that its responsible for the additional damage 
before it will agree to any payment. I think thats a reasonable request.  Unfortunately, Mr B 
hasnt provided  much  to show  that. What he has given includes his explanation and account 
of what happened  and some invoices for repair work. But he hasnt provided much  else to 
demonstrate the repair  work hes had done was necessary directly  because of something  
Admiral did wrong. There arent  any photos  of the damage or reports  from an engineer or 
repairing garage, for example. 
I accept its possible some, or all, of the damage  Mr Bs mentioned was Admirals 
responsibility. But for me to say it should cover the resulting costs,  I need to see enough to 
make me think it probably was. But so far I havent. So based  on what I have seen I cant 
say Admiral unfairly refused to pay for the damage.
Admiral also refused to pay compensation for Mr B being unable to use the car. Mr B says 
the top of the replacement windscreen popped out of position after a few days.  So he 
couldnt use the car. I havent seen anything  to confirm that. But Admiral  accepted  there was 
a problem with the windscreen.  So I think its likely  it was ill fitting and not an effective repair. 
I accept Mr B hasnt provided anything  to show that made the car unusable. But I think its 
likely an ill-fitting windscreen  would  make a car unsafe and uncomfortable to use. So 
effectively unusable.   
The original  repair took place at the end of January 2018. A further effective replacement 
wasnt made until the end of July 2018.  Its not clear exactly why it took so long. The 
windscreen being out of stock seems to be part of the cause. Mr B says Admiral turned up 
on one occasion  with the wrong windscreen.  He says it messed him about  generally. But 
regardless of the reasons  for the delay Admiral was responsible  for the original poor repair. 
That left the car unusable until the effective one was made. So its fair to say Admiral  is 
responsible for Mr B being unable to use his car for about six months. 
Mr Bs said he would like £15 per day he was out without the use of the car. This service 
sometimes says an insurer, thats  left a customer unfairly without use of their car, should pay 
£10 a day. Thats generally to cover any reasonable additional transport costs incurred as a 
result. But it seems Mr B had access to other cars.  He hasnt said he had faced extra  costs  
to get around. So it wouldnt be reasonable to require Admiral to pay him £10 per day.
From what  Mr B has said it seems he takes  pride  in the car. Its a small sports car. Hes 
owned it for twenty years. He says he keeps it to a high standard. So although he might 
have been able to use others it seems likely he unfairly lost out on enjoyment of his car for 
about six months. I think it would be reasonable for Admiral to compensate  him for that. 
About £50 per month  so £300 in total  would be a fair amount.   
Admirals offered Mr B £150 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience its 
caused him. It says this is to reflect the time he spent chasing  Admiral for a resolution  and 
for being misled  about how it proposed to resolve his complaint. Its also offered £20 to cover 
the cost of calls - so £170 in total. 
I dont think thats  enough  to recognise  the impact of whats gone  wrong.  Mr B spent many 
months chasing the matter through Admiral and its agents. It seems he was given a poor 
service and caused a great deal of distress  and inconvenience over a long period. In the end 
Ref: DRN01020105he was so frustrated  he arranged for the windscreen to be replaced himself.  And Admiral  
caused further distress  by changing  its mind on how it intended to resolve matters. So I think  
£300, not £170, would be a fair amount  to recognise the impact of whats  gone wrong. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr B:
£300 compensation to recognise the loss of enjoyment of his car and
£300 compensation to recognise the unncessary distress and inconvienance it 
caused him. 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0102010