K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about Cofunds Limiteds  inability to carry out his instructions to transfer 
assets to his and his sisters account, which has resulted in loss. 
background 
Mr F was the executor, and beneficiary  together with his sister, Mrs S, of his late mothers  
investment. 
His half of the investment  was to be transferred to a new provider and his independent 
financial advisers (IFA) issued  instructions to do so in December 2017. The new provider 
made a request in January 2018. By late February  2018,  and in light of little progress, Mr F 
requested an encashment  of his share of the investment. 
Cofunds partially upheld the complaint. In a Final Response Letter  (FRL) dated March  2018, 
it offered Mr F £300 by way of an apology, but he refused and sent the cheque  back. He said 
this didnt take account of delays experienced by Mrs S and the value of his share of the 
investment had gone down. 
Cofunds subsequently sent separate letters to Mr F and Mrs S. In the letter  to Mr F it said its 
offer of compensation was without  prejudice  and he was free to refer his complaint to our 
service. Because  it erroneously set up an additional  complaint  it offered  Mr F another £100  
compensation after hed referred his complaint to us. In the letter to Mrs S it offered £100 for 
the delay in completing the in specie transfer to her account. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but thought we wouldnt be justified in 
asking for more than what had been offered to Mr F, and certainly  not the difference  
between the value of the investments  between December  2017 and February  2018.
In summary  he said:
Theres no dispute that there were delays in carrying out Mr Fs instructions to 
transfer his share of the assets  to his designated account.  But hes unable to say that 
Mr F is entitled  to the value of  his share  of the portfolio in December 2017  when  
Mr F suggests the transfer instructions were sent.   
Although Cofunds gave  the value of the portfolio as of the date of his mothers death 
at £486,195.54,  it also said "please be aware  that due to price  fluctuations  the final 
redemption amount may differ  from the valuation above."  
Mr Fs letter of December  2017  was an instruction  for the investment funds to be 
divided between him and Mrs S, and his share  to be transferred to his new providers 
 in respect of which Cofunds would receive instructions. So, the transfer  couldnt  
have started in December 2017. 
Instructions from the new provider  dated  8 January 2018 were  only received on 19 
January 2018,  which also asked for details of cash and assets held. The new 
provider said once  it had verified that it can accept the transfer  on those holdings, it 
would provide Cofunds with the appropriate registration details. 
Cofunds accepted that the transfer should  have been processed within  two to three 
weeks but it had made an oversight which had led to the delay. But at the same time 
it was also dependant on fund managers to get back to it to confirm  change of 
nominee, so it wouldve  been wrong  for Cofunds to agree  an exact date. 
Ref: DRN09545482In late-February  Mr F sent Cofunds a revised instruction letter, asking it to disregard 
his previous request. Mr F changed  tack  its not a question of blame  hes entitled 
to do whats in his best interest.   
The £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused by the delay and 
mistakenly setting up another complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The compensation paid to Mrs S is also fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators views.  In short, he maintains that hes lost out 
significantly due to the delays by Cofunds.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to partially  uphold  this complaint. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling  about this matter. Im sorry for the loss of his 
mother. 
Mr F has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and the Cofunds, and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I appreciate the transfer was delayed, due to an oversight by the business. But I dont  think 
the delays were to the extent suggested  by Mr F. 
Mr F, on his own volition,  within a few weeks of having instructed Cofunds to transfer his 
share of the holdings  to his new provider, took the decision to encash  his investment. He 
wasnt forced to and certainly wasnt advised to take this measure. I note the literature 
provided made clear  that the business couldnt  guarantee the value of the investment on 
encashment.
I think Mr Fs intervening actions  namely  his change of instructions  broke the potential 
chain of causation, between the business  and any loss that he might  have suffered as a 
direct result of the delays.  
I dont blame Mr F for this, I agree with our adjudicator that he is entitled to do what  he feels 
is in his best interest, especially  when he may have  pressing needs. But I cant  blame 
Cofunds for his change  of instructions and any potential loss either. 
Ref: DRN09545483Mr Fs instructions to encash were carried out within  a reasonable amount of time. Neither 
he nor the business  could  have predicted the value of the investment at the point of 
encashment. Im reasonably satisfied Cofunds made  this point reasonably clear in the 
correspondence with Mr F and his IFA. 
Overall I think  £300 compensation for the delays, plus the £100 compensation for mistakenly  
setting up a second complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I also think the 
compensation offered to Mrs S is fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the Cofunds  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Cofunds to pay Mr F an additional  £100.  
I think the overall £400 compensation offered  by Cofunds Limited (including the above) is fair 
and reasonable.  It should pay this amount less any compensation already paid.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Dara Islam 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0954548