K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr O took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for the credit  card by filling  out a form in 
May 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr O says he didnt know about the PPI and had never knowingly taken it out. Ive seen a 
copy of the application form that Mr O completed. Under the heading  Optional  Features 
there is a section for PPI. It says tick here if required and Mr O has ticked the adjacent box.
The sale happened a long time and it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr Os recollection of the 
event has faded   and in fact Mr O has said that he cant remember  how the policy  was sold 
to him. Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mr O would have known  from the 
layout and wording  of the form that the policy was optional.  It seems  to me that he probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even  if he no longer remembers doing so.
Lloyds says it advised Mr O to take out the policy. Therefore in recommending  the PPI to 
him it needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Os circumstances 
at the time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr Os employer would have given  him six months full pay, followed by six months  half pay, 
if he had been  unable to work due to illness. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
this and potentially  for longer than he would  have received full pay for. Mr O has told us that 
he would  have had some savings at the time. But the policy would have allowed him to 
retain these  or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult  time. 
Overall I think  that Mr O had a need  for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information about the policy  as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr O wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr O had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind. So Mr O is no 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong,  so theres nothing that Lloyds 
needs to do to put things  right. 
Ref: DRN07388172my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0738817