K820x#14complaint
Mrs R, supported by her husband  Mr R, complains  that AmTrust Europe Limited is 
responsible for poor service under a home emergency insurance policy.
background
Under the rules  by which we are bound, the Financial Ombudsman Service  can only deal 
with a complaint  against one regulated financial business at a time. We deal with complaints 
about claims under insurance policies as complaints against the insurer  responsible for 
dealing with claims. In Mrs Rs case,  we are dealing with a complaint against AmTrust.
Where I refer to AmTrust or the insurer I include engineers and others for whose actions I 
hold AmTrust responsible.
Mrs R had cover for her central heating system. It was branded with the name  of an energy 
company.
Mrs R called for help with the boiler  but she complained that the company never fixed it  
repeatedly saying it needed  a power  flush. So Mrs R paid a plumbing company £506.08.to 
fix the boiler.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
occasions when  the boiler functioned  intermittently wouldnt  meet the policy  definition  of a 
breakdown or fault. He said that the original complaint letter  to AmTrust says there wasnt  
that much  sludge  and a letter to us said was no sludge other  than what you would expect. 
So the investigator didnt place a lot of weight on the plumbing companys evidence that 
there was no sludge evident. The investigator didnt think that the insurer  should  reimburse  
Mrs R for the plumbing companys repair, given the insurer hadnt looked at the boiler on this 
occasion.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R 
and to AmTrust on 25 June 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Mrs R continued to pay the insurer and she renewed the policy  in November 
2018. But she didnt  call for its help.
Furthermore, in March 2019  Mr and Mrs R contacted  the plumbing company  
before the insurer.
As Mrs R hadnt asked it to do anything  for a year or so, I wasnt  minded to 
find there was anything that the insurer shouldve done - whether  or not there 
was a significant amount of sludge  in the system.
Subject to any further information from Mrs R or from AmTrust, my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend  to direct AmTrust Europe  
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN02239042AmTrust hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs R disagree with the provisional  decision. They say, in summary, that:
The energy  company  is involved  in scamming customers.
We have not challenged its practices.
Mr and Mrs R will continue to fight through the courts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
From what  Ive seen, Mrs R took out cover in about  2012. I think it was annual cover and its 
terms changed over the years. 
Mrs R has sent us a copy  of terms dated  February  2016 and an annual  renewal  letter dated 
November 2016.  I cant see any indication that AmTrust was involved at all at that time. So I 
dont find the insurer responsible for the visits in March 2016 when the energy company or 
one of its group companies fitted  a new manifold  and cleaned  the plate heat exchanger. 
The insurer  has sent us copies of renewal letters dated November 2017 and November 
2018. They  make  it clear that  from November 2017- there  was insurance cover under 
which AmTrust was the insurer responsible  for dealing with claims. 
The policy summaries from November 2017  and November 2018  each say that the insurer  
didnt cover any repairs or flushing  required  as a consequence of sludge.  I find that repairs  
as a consequence of sludge  would typically be to parts of the system containing water.
The policy terms (updated  May 2018) said that AmTrust wouldnt pay for repairs undertaken 
by a third party  and not instructed by the insurer.
In March 2019 the plumbing company replaced  the printed circuit board (PCB) and later a 
pump. Mr and Mrs R were  pleased that their system  was working better than for a long time. 
So I can understand that  having  paid over £500.00  to the plumbing  company  they asked 
why the insurer  hadnt fixed it long ago.
But AmTrust had no involvement before November 2017. And boilers (and especially older  
boilers) can suffer from more than one fault.  
From November 2017 Mrs R paid the insurer.  But she didnt call for its help. So I dont find 
there was anything that it shouldve done before she called for help in March 2018.
The insurer  sent an engineer. He found  the boiler was working. And Mrs R didnt complain or 
ask for another visit. There was also an annual service in June 2018. That wasnt  covered by 
the insurance. But it generated a record that the system was working.
Mrs R continued to pay the insurer and she renewed the policy  in November 2018. But she 
didnt call for its help. Furthermore, in March 2019 Mr and Mrs R contacted the plumbing  
company before the insurer. I dont doubt  they had their reasons  for this. One of those 
Ref: DRN02239043reasons was that they were aware that the insurer wouldnt pay for repairs  or a flush  needed 
as a consequence of sludge.  
However, as Mrs R hadnt asked it to do anything for a year or so, I dont  find there was 
anything that the insurer  shouldve done - whether or not there was a significant  amount of 
sludge in the system. So I dont think a report on the amount of sludge would make  any 
difference to my decision.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to order the insurer to reimburse Mrs R for the 
plumbing companys  invoice or to do anything  further in response to this complaint.
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AmTrust Europe Limited  to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0223904