K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2003. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint. This is because Santander  recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs T but I dont 
think it was suitable  for them. 
Mr T (the person covered) suffered from a medical condition.  He said he had done for 
several years, and that he had taken  medication  since that time. He has presented  medical 
evidence to show that he still takes  medication  which is for the condition he has described.  
Mr T has been  consistent in saying  he was diagnosed with this condition a few years before 
the policy started.  He also says he has taken the occasional  day off work  as a result  of the 
medical condition.  
The policy said, We will not pay the monthly benefit if your disability arises  from any of the
following: any condition you had at the start date.
Because of these  facts, I dont think the recommendation was a suitable one. And I dont 
have evidence that Santander, when  recommending  the PPI, clearly  advised Mr and Mrs T 
that the PPI was not suitable to the extent  that Mr T wouldnt  be able to claim for disability 
arising from this medical condition. I think, if theyd been properly advised, Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  the policy. 
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
Ref: DRN07698122If Mr and Mrs T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander  can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs T compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0769812