K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage with PPI in 1992.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Their main  complaint is that they werent made  aware they had PPI.
Weve also looked  at another mortgage Mr and Mrs N took out before this one. But it doesn't  
appear that they were sold a PPI policy with that mortgage. So in my decision Im just 
looking at what happened when Bank  of Scotland sold them PPI to protect their mortgage  
that started  in June  1992.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs N took out the mortgage  in joint names and they both had PPI. So Ive looked at 
everything theyve told us about  their circumstances.  
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Bank  of Scotland  hasnt been able to 
provide anything signed by Mr and Mrs N from this sale. 
I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage  account closed many years ago. 
I wouldnt expect Bank  of Scotland to have  kept records about a closed  account  for so long. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs N might be able to remember  after 
such a long time. And its unsurprising that Mr and Mrs N told us they couldnt remember 
some details from this sale. I have to look at everything and decide  what I think  is most 
likely.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial  number of 
years. Their home  wouldve  been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable protection.  So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to 
have. 
Mr and Mrs N were both eligible for PPI. It wasnt included with the mortgage automatically  
Mr and Mrs N wouldve  had to say if they wanted to take it out. On balance, I think its likely 
that they decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI offered  and they chose to buy the 
policy  even if theyve  forgotten this now.  
Ref: DRN09283612Bank of Scotland treated this complaint as if it had personally recommended  PPI to 
Mr and Mrs N. If a business makes a recommendation about  PPI, it doesnt just have to give 
important policy information  in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make  sure 
the cover  it recommends  is suitable . So looking at their complaint this way gives  
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint  the best chance of succeeding. And I think  thats the fairest  way to 
assess their complaint, given the lack of paperwork.
Ive looked carefully  at what Mr and Mrs N told us about  their situation at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage.  
PPI protected  Mr and Mrs N in the event of unemployment for up to 12 months  per claim. 
And the policy wouldve also covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if 
either of them  had an accident  or became too sick or disabled  to work. Mr and Mrs N 
couldve made repeated  claims  on the policy after a qualifying period  back at work.
Its unclear what their sick pay arrangements were  and Mr and Mrs N told us they didnt 
have any significant  other means they couldve depended on to help pay their mortgage if 
they werent working. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs N could be sure theyd be able to keep 
up the monthly repayments in order to protect their home. So I can see why Mr and Mrs N 
mightve wanted PPI  even if theyve forgotten this now. And I think  PPI was suitable for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs N were affected  by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I think it unlikely that better  information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations wouldve  affected their decision  to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs N when they bought the policy. 
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  And this was a 
policy they paid for monthly  so they couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer 
wanted to pay for it or keep the policy running. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs N still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed  as the 
policy gave them useful  protection  in their particular situation. So I dont find theyve lost out 
financially as a result  of anything that Bank  of Scotland may have done wrong. This means it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0928361