K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont tell him which of his personal 
details were used  by a fraudster to open  an account in his name.
background
On 24 March 2018 a fraudster managed to open a NatWest credit card account  in Mr Ts 
name and then obtained over £11,000  on it. Mr T discovered this when NatWest sent him a 
statement. He was upset  by the way it then dealt with this particularly as it wouldnt tell him 
about the security  checks itd carried out before opening the account. When he spoke to one 
of the banks advisors she told him it hadnt checked  the bank account details belonged to 
him. Hes concerned about that. And he felt NatWest hadnt carried  out proper checks. He 
wants to know if the fraudster gave his bank  details, his income and expenditure and any 
other personal details  so he can see how much of his information  is in the public domain. 
And hes concerned  that his full name is on the electoral roll and on his credit record but only 
his surname and first name were used by NatWest  when  it opened  the account. 
NatWest said when  the application  was received  it checked the address which  was the same  
as the one on the voters roll on Mr Ts credit record. It said the information was verified and 
the account was approved. NatWest said itd had reported the fraud to CIFAS a not-for-profit 
fraud prevention membership organisation) so that a warning would be given to other 
organisations and placed  on Mr Ts credit record to prevent  this from happening again. But 
said he might experience further  checks on his identity when he made any applications  in 
the future.  It also contacted the credit reference agencies  to make sure the fraudulent 
account was excluded from his records. And it closed  the fraudulent account and assured Mr 
T he wouldnt be liable for any of the debt. It sent him a cheque for £40 for the trouble and 
upset this had caused him. 
Our investigator asked  NatWest to confirm whether any one of his three  email  addresses 
had been used by the fraudster. NatWest confirmed they hadnt. She issued her view on Mr 
Ts complaint and she said she didnt  think NatWest had done anything  wrong.  She could 
see itd told him that his name, and address had been  used  and itd confirmed his email 
address hadnt  been compromised. She said NatWest wasnt  obliged to provide details of 
security checking. And she thought £40 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr T didnt  agree. He said NatWest  didnt act with due diligence  when it opened this 
account. It didnt  check  his name properly. It hasnt told him which bank details  were  used. 
He said the amounts and frequency of the cash withdrawals  on this account  showed a lack 
of safeguards built into their systems and is a reflection of its attitude to security.  If this was a 
case of fraudsters waiting  outside his property  to intercept the credit  card and the PIN then 
NatWest should  take better precautions when sending these out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A fraudster  obtained some of Mr Ts personal information and used this to open an account 
with NatWest. So I can see what a worrying time this has been for Mr T. 
Ref: DRN00694322Mr Ts upset  about the processes NatWest uses  to open bank accounts. But its internal 
procedures are not something  we can look at. As our investigator explained, our role is 
limited. We try to sort out individual complaints between consumers and financial institutions 
where the consumer  thinks he or she has lost out. We cant  comment on processes which 
apply to all its customers. Thats  the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. But we can look 
at Mr Ts experience with those processes and see if anything  has gone wrong that has 
caused him to lose out.
For those reasons we cant tell a bank what checks to carry out on applications. And we 
cant tell a bank  what security measures it should take when it sends out bank cards  and 
PINs. I can understand  why, for security reasons, NatWest wont give Mr T all the details that 
the fraudster used to open the account. But Mr T is entitled to know  which of his personal  
details were used. NatWest has confirmed that the only details relevant to Mr T were his 
name, address  and date of birth. No other details, including his bank accounts, were  
compromised. 
NatWest wasnt responsible for the fraudster obtaining Mr Ts details.  But it placed a CIFAS 
marker on his credit  record to help protect him against further fraud. If thats  causing  him 
inconvenience he can ask for it to be removed.  
It sent Mr T a cheque for £40. I think thats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. Mr T 
says he hasnt cashed the cheque  and its now out of date. If he would like to accept 
NatWests offer of £40 our investigator  will help to arrange for it to send  a further cheque out 
to him. 
I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision  but for the reasons  Ive given Im not going  
to ask NatWest to do anything more.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.  
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0069432