K821x#15complaint
complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background 
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to uphold  Mrs S complaint and 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  representations.
my findings
Both parties  received the provisional decision,  but neither of them  has given me any further  
information or evidence to consider.
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint and require Financial Insurance Company Limited to pay 
compensation as set out below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN09683062copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs S took out a store  card while she was shopping. The PPI policy was sold some time later 
following a telephone call in March 2000.
The policy cost £1.00 per £100 and wouldve paid out 15% of the outstanding monthly  balance if 
Mrs S was off work  sick or lost her job. It also provided life cover, purchase and price protection. The 
policy was cancelled in June 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs S complaint should be upheld. Mrs S didnt agree  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S complaint. Having done so I 
think this complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S had to be working for 16 hours or more a week to be eligible for the PPIs disability and 
unemployment cover.
Ive looked at what  Mrs S has told us about her job position at the time  shes been quite detailed 
about her working arrangements at the time the policy was sold and in the years afterwards and I find 
her testimony  plausible.  And she told us at the outset that she regularly worked  in excess  of 16 hours 
a week;  and she regularly worked zero hours a week. Her weekly  hours  fluctuated significantly and 
she considered herself to be a self-employed  contractor. So I accept that Mrs S wasnt working 16 
hours a week  or more when she was sold the PPI. And so I dont think Mrs S was eligible for disability 
and unemployment cover under the PPI. 
FICL had to give Mrs S enough fair, clear and not misleading information  about  the PPIs 
requirements. But nothing Ive seen suggests they did clearly  highlight these on the application  form. 
So I dont think FICL gave Mrs S all the information she needed to know before she decided to take 
PPI. And I think  that if shed been properly  told about the PPI she wouldve realised she wasnt 
eligible for a large part of its cover. I dont think Mrs S wouldve wanted to take and then pay for PPI if 
she wasnt eligible for a large part of it.
It follows that I think this complaint should be upheld
what FICL should do to put things right  
Its not clear from the information  weve been given  if Mrs S store card account is still open. So what 
FICL should do to put things  right will depend  on if the account is now still open or closed. 
Ref: DRN09683063if the account is now still open
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial  position hed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL should find out how much Mrs S would  owe on her card if the policy  hadnt been added  to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owes and what  she wouldve owed.
If Mrs S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works out what Mrs S wouldve owed each  month without PPI  Mrs S paid more 
than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest (at 8% a year) on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S wouldve  owed 
FICL something on her card.
C.FICL should tell Mrs S what  its done  to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
if the account is now closed
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial  position hed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much  Mrs S would have owed when she closed her card account  if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed her account 
and what she would have  owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
B. FICL should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what  Mrs S would  
have owed when she closed her account from when  she closed  it until she gets the refund.
C. If  when  FICL  works out what Mrs S would  have owed  each month without PPI  Mrs S paid 
more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest (at 8% a year) on 
the extra Mrs S paid.  And it should carry on paying interest  until the point when Mrs S wouldve 
owed FICL something  on her card.
D. FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN09683064my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think this complaint should be upheld.  
I now invite  Mrs S, and Financial Insurance Company  Limited to give me any further information 
theyd like me to consider before I make my final decision.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0968306