K821x#15complaint
Mr W complained  that the advice  from Blue Ocean Investment Company Limited (Blue 
Ocean) to transfer his pension to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP) in order to make 
an investment in Harlequin, an overseas  unregulated property development, was unsuitable.
background
In January 2009, Mr W approached Blue Ocean  for advice on his three  personal  pensions, 
totalling around £150,000  in value, and how he could use them to invest  in a Harlequin  
overseas property development. Blue Oceans advice was to transfer only one of his 
personal pensions,  valued at around  £57,000,  to a SIPP. And to leave  the other two 
pensions with their existing providers, because they had valuable benefits  attached  to them  
 guaranteed annuity rates (GAR).
On 8 November  2019, I sent my provisional  decision to Mr W and Blue Ocean explaining 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. That decision is attached  and forms part of 
this decision. 
Blue Ocean  responded disagreeing with my decision. It submitted further reasons why it 
believed the complaint had been  brought out of time and evidence in support of this. In 
particular, an email  chain  showing  it had been corresponding with Mr W in 2013 about a 
valuation of his SIPP. Blue Ocean also went on to provide its comments  on my findings in 
relation to the merits of the complaint. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety, 
here I have  just included a brief summary  of the key points:
Mr W would have gone  ahead  with the investment regardless of Blue Oceans 
advice.
He only asked for advice on finding  a suitable  SIPP provider. 
It held many conversations with Mr W about  his investment choice, as it is not 
something that it would recommend and it told Mr W it could  not provide advice on 
his investment choice,  if he had wanted advice on this he would have elected to 
speak to a different  adviser.
Mr W was fully aware of Blue Oceans  position and the risk warnings provided to him 
 but, he was more  comfortable with property than he was with stocks and shares.
Blue Ocean did liaise  with Harlequin  for Mr W but it did not otherwise have a 
relationship with Harlequin. 
Mr Ws attitude to risk was assessed  as medium to high and he was classified as a 
high net worth sophisticated investor.  
He had substantial  funds outside of his pension and a significant  income from his 
practice, in addition, he had lots of experience with property. 
The evidence points  to the fact that Mr W would  have gone ahead  with the 
investment anyway and would not have listened  to alternative advice. 
The benchmark used  is inappropriate, Mr W wanted to make the property investment 
and would not have agreed  to invest in equities, this possibility  was discussed at the 
time, but he disregarded it. 
Ref: DRN09183662Blue Ocean is not responsible for Mr Ws decision, he is now seeking to blame it 
despite knowing that it did warn him against  making the Harlequin investment. 
It did consider the underlying investment, although it did not give specific advice on 
the investment.  
Blue Ocean should not be held responsible for the Harlequin investment, it was 
simply trying to help ensure that Mr W got the best deal he could to go ahead with 
the investment  he had already  decided  on making. 
I sent the evidence Blue Ocean submitted along with its comments  to Mr W. 
Mr W and his representative  responded and also submitted further  information.  Briefly, they 
said:
A decision on jurisdiction has already been  issued and this should not be revisited 
now.
Mr W found the email Blue Ocean  said had the 2013 statement attached,  the 
attachment was not the statement  it was the cash valuation (CVS).
This was provided in the context of Mr W raising concerns about the invoice received 
for SIPP fees considering the service  being  provided.
Mr W did not interpret this as being  a valuation  of his property investment, he thought 
it was a valuation  of his cash account  and small investment portfolio only.  
It is clear from later correspondence that Mr W still believed that the investment 
would succeed.  
It was due to the representatives involvement  Mr W complained  about the SIPP 
advice. He was not aware of the rules and regulations surrounding pension transfers, 
including that Blue Ocean  had to take the underlying investment into account when 
advising on the transfer. 
I considered the submissions made  by both parties and wrote to them setting out my 
findings, I said:
Based  on the available evidence,  I think it is more likely than not that the document  
attached to Blue Oceans email of 17 April 2013 (at 16:39) was the CVS printout 
Mr W has provided as opposed to the pension statement.
In line with the information  Mr W has provided,  the CVS accessed  on 17 April 2013 
from the account of Blue Oceans advisor  said: 
SIPP Portfolio 
Asset Class Valuation (£) % of Value 
Collectives 0 0
Other Investments  0 0
Cash Account 379.54 13.25
Investment Manager 
Portfolios 2,485.80 86.75
Total 2,865.34 100
Ref: DRN09183663The provision of this came about  in the context  of Mr W questioning why the funds  in 
the cash account were insufficient to cover the SIPP fees.
As soon  as Mr W found out about the lack of funds in the cash account, he raised  
concerns about the perceived  loss of a couple  of thousand pounds.  
Mr W says that given  the circumstances in which  this information came  to him, he 
understood this to be the valuation of the monies in the SIPP other than the property 
investment. 
Given that Mr W raised concerns  over the loss of a few thousand pounds and was 
clearly unhappy  about this, I think that if he had realised that he had lost all of the 
monies he had invested  in Harlequin he would have  raised this at that point too. So, I 
think it is likely that Mr W did not become aware  at that point that he had cause for 
complaint.
But, for the purposes of our jurisdiction,  I need  also to answer whether or not Mr W 
ought reasonably  to have become aware that he had cause for complaint.
On 14 November 2013, Mr W wrote  to Harlequin to ask for an up to date valuation  of 
his property for the SIPP provider   in response  to this, Harlequin  properties said it 
would cost £230,000 to purchase the property at that time. 
There is no indication within that correspondence that the Harlequin  investment 
wasnt worth  anything  or otherwise that something was wrong. 
So, even  if I were  to conclude that the CVS meant that Mr W ought reasonably to 
have become aware that he had cause  for complaint at that point, the information 
provided by Harlequin a few months  later indicated that the property had significant  
value. 
On 27 May 2014, after a meeting  Mr W emailed Blue Ocean, amongst other things 
he said: I am again confident that this will in time turn out to be a good investment, 
albeit a little later than planned.
Taking everything into account  I am not persuaded that the complaint has been 
brought out of time.
Neither party made any further submissions.  The case  has been passed back  to me for final 
decision. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I 
consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose  of this decision is not to 
address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings  and reasons  for reaching 
them.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN09183664It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress 
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant.
As I have mentioned  above, my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this 
decision. Within  this decision I have focused on the arguments raised  in response to my 
provisional decision. Some of the points raised  were covered at length in my provisional 
decision, I have  not covered these at length  again.  
Has the complaint been brought in time?
The rules  that determine  the jurisdiction of this service  are set out in the regulators 
handbook; these rules are referred  to as DISP.
DISP 2.8.2:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service:

more than:
six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  other  
record of the complaint  having been received;
unless:
in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP  2.8.2  
R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 

In line with the above, we cannot consider a complaint  where it has been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; and (if later)
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that he had cause  for complaint; unless
The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having  been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within  the applicable time limits.
There is no dispute that the advice  took place more  than six years before the complaint was 
raised, so I focused on whether or not Mr W became  or ought reasonably to have become 
Ref: DRN09183665 aware that he had cause for complaint more  than three years  before the complaint  was 
raised. 
Blue Ocean  maintains that the complaint has been brought  too late. Taking into account the 
evidence provided  I think that the complaint has been brought  in time for the reasons set out 
in the above quoted correspondence.  Neither party made any arguments in response  to this, 
so I am not minded  to depart from those  findings. 
Mr W was provided  with a CVS snap shot in April 2013. This was provided in the context of 
him querying  an invoice  for SIPP fees and the amount of cash  that he thought ought to be 
available in the SIPP. Taking into account  the document provided, the context within  which 
this was provided and Mr Ws reaction, I do not think that he became aware at this time that 
he had cause for complaint.
Shortly after this, Mr W contacted Harlequin  and asked it for a valuation of the investment 
and was quoted a significant value for the property.  That valuation was provided within  three 
years of Mr W complaining to Blue Ocean, in turn, I dont think  the complaint been brought 
too late.
I think it is also worth noting that Mr W was most likely operating on the basis  that Blue 
Ocean did not advise him on the investment. This means even when he became aware of 
the issues with Harlequin, he may reasonably not have become aware that he had cause for 
complaint against  Blue Ocean.
Would Mr W have  listened to suitable  advice?
Blue Ocean  recommended that Mr W transfer his pension to a SIPP, the purpose of which 
was to invest in Harlequin. The advice was limited to the SIPP but the investment was 
discussed and Blue Ocean  liaised with Harlequin  on Mr Ws behalf. 
I have found that Blue Ocean could not limit its advice in the way it did  and, that if it had 
advised on the overall transaction,  it ought to have  advised against  the switch  to the SIPP.  
It is clear that Mr W was keen to invest in Harlequin. He had a number of property 
investments and had concerns about being  invested  in stocks and shares due to market  
volatility at the time. Blue Ocean argues that, even if it had given the advice  that I have found 
it ought to have given, Mr W would have gone  ahead with his plans to invest in Harlequin. I 
considered this carefully prior to issuing my provisional decision and nothing  in the latest  
submissions has persuaded me to change my findings on this. 
Mr W listened to Blue Oceans advice about  his policies with GARs attached despite raising 
concerns about  retaining these given their exposure to the stock market   this shows that he 
was willing  to listen to advice. Again, Mr Ws desire to avoid investment in equities and 
shares appears to be rooted in his concern over market volatility.  He wanted  to protect his 
capital. So, I think if Blue Ocean had given clear  and comprehensive  advice highlighting that 
the course of action  he intended to take would actually expose his pension to a considerably  
higher level of risk, Mr W would have listened to this. In turn, I think  that if Blue Ocean had 
given suitable  advice, as I have found  it ought to have done, Mr W would  not have ended up 
in a SIPP invested in Harlequin.
Is the redress appropriate?
Ref: DRN09183666Mr W did have  concerns  about his exposure  to the stock market  as a result of this, Blue 
Ocean has argued that he would never have agreed  to an investment  spread comparable to 
that required to likely  yield a return in line with the redress I set out. 
In line with the above findings, I do think that Mr W would have listened  to suitable advice if 
he been given  a clear and meaningful explanation as to why this would  be the right course of 
action for him. 
To decide what fair, reasonable and appropriate redress  would be I have taken  into account 
Mr Ws circumstances, objectives and his desire  to limit his exposure to market volatility.  It is 
in line with this that I found that a 50/50 split between the stated benchmark  (FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index)  and average rates from fixed  rate bonds is 
appropriate for the calculation of redress.
I am not persuaded that Mr W would have  refused to accept advice if clear and properly 
presented, so I am satisfied that the redress I have awarded is fair and reasonable.  
Summary of findings 
As I set out at the beginning  of my findings,  my provisional decision is attached  and forms 
part of this decision, within this decision I have focused on the key points raised in response 
to my provisional decision.  For the sake of completeness, in summary, I have found  that: 
The complaint has been brought in time.
Blue Ocean advised Mr W to transfer  his pension to a SIPP, the purpose  of which  
was to invest in Harlequin  but, it did not give advice  on the overall transaction  
including the investment.  
It could not limit its advice this way and provide suitable advice. 
Suitable advice would have been  for Mr W to retain his existing pension  or switch to 
a lost cost alternative such as a stakeholder plan. 
There is evidence that Mr W was keen to invest in Harlequin and that he had 
concerns about the stock market, but it is more likely than not that he would have 
listened to suitable  advice. 
The redress awarded takes into account Mr Ws circumstances  and concerns at the 
time of the advice  and is appropriate in light of these. 
Taking all of this into account  I am satisfied that the conclusions I have reached are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr W would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ws circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
Ref: DRN09183667What should Blue  Ocean  do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Blue Ocean must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Blue Ocean  should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Blue Ocean should  pay into Mr Ws pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Blue Ocean is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ws pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
I think Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have 
been able to take a tax-free  lump  sum,  the reduction should only be applied  to 75% of 
the compensation.
Pay to Mr W £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by the loss of a 
significant portion  of his pension provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Blue Ocean deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Blue Ocean should give Mr W a 
tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The monies 
transferred  
into the 
SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  date of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
Ref: DRN09183668rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsbeing notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Blue Ocean should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Blue Ocean is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Blue Ocean  may require that Mr W provides an 
undertaking to pay Blue Ocean any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Blue Ocean will need to meet any costs  in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Blue Ocean 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Blue Ocean totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Ws risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
Ref: DRN09183669to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It does  not mean that Mr W 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr W could have obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Blue Ocean Investment Company  Limited  should  
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Blue Ocean  Investment Company  Limited  should  provide details of its calculation to Mr W in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 June 2020.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complained that the advice from Blue Ocean Investment Company Limited  (Blue Ocean)  to 
transfer his pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  in order to make an investment in 
Harlequin, an overseas unregulated property development, was unsuitable.
background
In January 2009 Mr W approached Blue Ocean for advice on his three personal pensions,  totalling  
around £150,000 in value,  and how he could use them to invest in a Harlequin  overseas property 
development. 
In a letter  to Blue Ocean  dated 15 January  2009, Mr W said:
With regard to a meeting you are welcome  to visit us here or else a meeting in London. 
However, as I have the information close at hand here, can I suggest some time next week by 
which stage you may have  some responses to your enquiries. On the other hand,  you may 
Ref: DRN091836610wish to wait until you have all these  in before meeting. My only concern  is that I need to be 
able to decide  on the Marquis Investment before the end of the month before the price 
increase occurs.
The fact find signed on 23 January 2009 confirmed Mr Ws circumstances as follows:
64 years  old
Married
Total  income  of £36,320
Total  joint assets  with wife of £1,206,300
The SIPP application form was signed on 3 February 2009.  
On 23 February 2009, Mr W emailed Blue Ocean  about  his pensions, he said:
I have just had a sudden  thought about both the [name of pension provider] and the [name of 
pension provider] pensions.  Can you please check that I am not losing  out on valuable 
conditions that were in place for % age increases  after the pension is cashed in. I believe that 
was the reason why the provider made it unreasonable to make any more contributions, but 
they would accept that what had been put into the pot would be given this enhanced return.
In March 2009, Blue Ocean issued its suitability  report, this said:
I recommended that I review all of your potential financial planning  needs. However, you 
asked me to restrict my advice to your pension needs. This letter only covers my 
recommendations to satisfy those needs.
And
I have recommended  a self invested personal pension because you have stated that you 
wish to have more control over your pension  funds. In addition  you wish to invest in a property 
via the SIPP and recognise that your current pension providers do not allow this type of 
transaction.
It then went  on to set out details of Mr Ws existing  pension arrangements:
1.[name of provider]  £56927.23 transfer value.  You are currently invested in the cautious 
pension fund-100%.  There  is an annual  management charge of 1%.
2.[name of provider]  Transfer value is £49090.23. The funds  are currently invested in the With 
Profit funds 100%. There is an annual  management  charge of 1% per annum and 5% Bid 
Offer Spread.  There is a guaranteed annuity (single persons) with this policy of £108 per 
£1000 of premium. This is currently 40% above the market average.  I therefore do not 
recommend that this is transferred in to the SIPP.
3.[name of provider]   Current transfer value  is £43670.78. This is invested in With Profits 
Fund  100%. There is no annual management charge but there is a monthly fee of £2.25.  
There is also a 5% Bid Offer  Spread. There is a guaranteed annuity with this policy  which 
offers a rate of £98 per £1000 of premium. This is currently about  40% above the market 
average. I therefore do not recommend  transferring this into the SIPP.
4.[name of provider]  This is a single  life guaranteed annuity plan,  escalating at about  2.5% 
per annum.  This is guaranteed for five years and I confirm that you are currently drawing 
upon and therefore not included in this review  at this time.
So, Blue Oceans  advice was to transfer only one of his personal pensions,  valued at around £57,000, 
to a SIPP.  And to leave  the other two pensions with their existing providers, because  they contained 
valuable benefits   guaranteed annuity rates  (GAR).
Ref: DRN091836611In relation to Mr Ws attitude  to risk the letter said:
I have explained  the different  attitude to risk profiles and we agreed that you have a medium  
to high attitude  to risk. We agreed you have  this attitude to risk profile because  you have 
stated that you have  a positive attitude to life in general  and are willing to take a degree of 
risk. You feel that you are fairly lucky  and always willing to look to the better future than dwell 
on mistakes of the past.
In the cover letter sent with the suitability  report Blue Ocean said:
I understand  that you feel that you would  rather have the money invested into a secure 
investment such as cash and property. However,  I cannot recommend that you give up such  
guarantees.
Mr W responded accepting the recommendations on 26 March 2009,  he said:
Thank you for your letter  dated  18 March 2009 setting down your recommendations and 
fees. I confirm my agreement with your recommendations and also that the two pensions with 
guaranteed annuities  be kept as separate pensions  outside of the SIPP,  and return  the copy 
signed as requested.
In your telephone call yesterday, you were going to discuss with Harlequin/IPS the process of 
valuation of the property at the point where  the SIPP needs to take out the mortgage  to 
purchase the property.
On 23 June 2011, Blue Ocean  sent Mr W a letter confirming the outcome of their recent discussions,  
in respect of the SIPP the letter said:
You currently  have a cash  balance  on the account and wish to invest in shares and funds. In 
order to do this, the SIPP  provider needs to open a Selftrade account  in order that you can 
place orders. We have sent the form to you and I understand you have  completed the form 
and forwarded it to [name of SIPP provider]  for action. Please advise me when  you have 
received notification that your account in open.
Mr W complained to Blue Ocean in 2016, it did not uphold his complaint.  Unhappy with this outcome 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service.  
Blue Ocean  said it had only advised on a suitable SIPP  to accommodate  the Harlequin investment 
and had not assessed and advised on the investment itself.
Blue Ocean  objected  to our considering the complaint on the basis that it had been brought out of 
time. Blue Oceans objection was reviewed  by an adjudicator  and then subsequently by an 
ombudsman; both concluded that this was a complaint  we could  consider. 
Blue Ocean  submitted its response in respect of the merits of the complaint, it said:
Mr W approached it in January 2009,  he was looking for advice on a suitable  SIPP provider in 
order to invest in Harlequin. At that time, he had already  purchased a commercial property  in 
the Caribbean  through Harlequin.
It sent Mr W paperwork  to complete,  so that it could review  his financial circumstances.  Mr W 
was keen  to meet as he did not have a lot of time to make a decision about the investment 
before the price  went up.
During the first meeting Mr W had explained how Harlequin works  and confirmed  that he had 
researched the investment prior to making his initial  investment.
They  discussed the risks involved at length, Mr W confirmed that he had experience in 
investing in property,  including overseas property.
Ref: DRN091836612Mr W explained that he was disappointed with the performance of his existing pension  funds 
and was happier  to invest  in property. He was a chartered architect and ran his own practice, 
so he had expertise in this area  and, also had an extensive buy to let portfolio.
Excluding his residential property Mr W had assets worth  over £1,380,000, significant  income 
from his practice  and cash reserves, so he was classified as being a high-net-worth 
sophisticated investor who had capacity for loss and was capable of making  his own 
investment choices.
Mr W had already  received a quotation from a SIPP  provider via Harlequin Properties  but 
wanted it to research the market  to find a competitive provider.
It received  an e-mail  on 24th January, (one day after the initial meeting) from
Mr W which confirmed I still intend on proceeding with the deal and will send him a cheque 
for £1,000  in the next few days as reservation fee showing that Mr W was intent on 
proceeding with the investment.
Having researched Mr Ws pension  arrangements, it only recommended the transfer of one of 
his pensions. It discussed investing this in medium  to high risk funds   but, he wanted to 
invest in commercial property and have control over his investment choice.
It recommended that Mr W transfer only one of his three pensions because the other two had 
Guaranteed Annuity  Rates  (GAR), these represented  good  value for money.
It took into account  the underlying investment but did not give advice in relation to this.
On 6 March 2009, Mr W emailed it saying; I feel very nervous at holding any share/stock  
investments as pensions and instruct you to transfer these  into a SIPP without further delay. 
Many thanks and no doubt you will want to talk through this, but I am sure my mind  is made  
up. This shows that Mr W was someone who made his own financial decisions and should 
be held accountable for them.
It had no experience in overseas properties and no relationship with Harlequin  this was 
highlighted to Mr W.
Mr W was confident  in investing in property. In a later email he said:
You did express your concerns over making  such a sizeable commitment to the 
property sector but I was confident at the time that this was a good investment and 
given the recent movement by Harlequin  to protect the smaller investors by allowing 
all the common parts of all developments  to be vested  in a separate  trust for their 
benefit, I am again confident that this will in time turn out to be a good investment, 
albeit a little later than planned.
The evidence  supports Mr W being confident in investing as much as he did in property.  It 
believes he would  have gone ahead in any event.
One of our adjudicators  then looked into the merits of this complaint  and recommended  it should be 
upheld. He said:
In light of the size of Mr Ws fund there would need particularly compelling  reasons to transfer 
it to a SIPP.
It was clear the SIPP was only recommended to accommodate the investment in Harlequin.
Ref: DRN091836613Mr Ws circumstances were similar to those referred to in the regulators  alert issued in 
January 2013, that when advising on a product which was a vehicle for investment in other 
products the advice must take account of the overall  investment strategy. While  Blue Ocean 
said it had considered the investment  it didnt offer advice on its suitability, the adjudicator felt 
Blue Ocean had a duty of care to assess and advise on whether the investment was suitable.
The Harlequin investment was unregulated, complex  and highly geared with additional 
borrowing. The adjudicator disagreed  that Mr W was a sophisticated  investor, his existing 
overseas property investments had not provided  a return and Mr W had overstated their 
values. He was not an experienced investor in complex unregulated overseas property 
developments.
The recommendation to invest one third of Mr Ws pension in Harlequin exposed  it to a higher 
level of risk than Mr W was assessed as being prepared to accept and was over concentrated 
in a single investment  in a single asset class.
Only a small proportion of a suitable investors  portfolio  should  be considered for unregulated 
investments. And that view was supported by the regulators  good and poor practice  report of 
July 2010.
Blue Ocean  disagreed and said the complaint was made with Mr Ws hindsight  and it asked for details 
of the guidance in place  when the advice  was given which was before the regulators alert of January  
2013. It said Mr W would have proceeded with the investment regardless of any advice and provided 
examples of other ombudsmans  decisions with similar circumstances where  different conclusions  
had been reached. 
It also said that as Mr W only wanted  to invest in property  the adjudicators redress recommendation 
would put Mr W in a better position than he would have been in otherwise.  
The adjudicator was not persuaded to change his opinion  of the complaint; however, he revised his 
redress recommendation to use a property index  as the benchmark for comparison purposes between  
Mr Ws actual  pension value and a notional  value  using the benchmark.
As agreement  was not reached the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position and I am 
grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything  wrong in respect of the 
individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the business has done something 
wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by the 
complainant.
Ref: DRN091836614What did Blue Ocean  do?
Blue Ocean  recommended a SIPP to Mr W for the purpose of investing  in Harlequin. It recommended 
that he transfer one of his three  pensions into the SIPP to make the investment  but, that he should  
retain the other two because they had valuable guarantees  attached  to them.  It says that it took the 
investment into account  when advising Mr W and gave risk warnings. 
Based on the correspondence provided, I think that Blue Ocean  did raise  some concerns with Mr W 
about the amount of his portfolio invested in property. I have not seen any evidence that it gave 
warnings in relation to the specific risks involved with investing in a highly  geared esoteric  unregulated 
investment such as Harlequin.  It did not advise  on the suitability of the investment or the overall 
strategy in light of Mr Ws circumstances. 
Blue Ocean  also facilitated the investment by way of communicating directly with Harlequin about a 
number of issues  in the run up to the investment going ahead.
Could Blue Ocean limit its advice to the pension  wrapper?
Blue Ocean  was required to follow the relevant rules  set out by the regulator. All of this needs to be 
considered through  the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles  for businesses  in particular, 
principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers interests)  and 9 (reasonable 
care).
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1  required Blue Ocean  to gather the necessary 
information about Mr Ws knowledge  and experience  relevant  to the specific type of designated 
investment, his financial  situation and investment objectives. This was to enable it to make a 
recommendation which  was suitable for Mr W.
COBS 9.2.2 required  Blue Ocean to gather enough information to ensure  that the recommendation; 
met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had sufficient knowledge and experience 
to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst other things,  to fulfil its duties Blue Ocean had to know its client, act in his best interests 
and give suitable advice. I dont think that it could  fulfil these duties without considering the overall  
transaction, including; the suitability of the switches and transfer and the investment strategy  that the 
SIPP was taken out to facilitate.
In 2013, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (then Financial Services Authority  (FSA)) issued  an 
alert in relation to Advising on pension  transfers with a view to investing  pension monies into 
unregulated products  through  a SIPP. This said, amongst other things, that:
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing  advice on a SIPP  capable  of holding  the unregulated investment. Sometimes  
the regulated  financial adviser  also assists  the customer  to unlock monies held in other 
investments (e.g. other pension  arrangements) so that the customer  is able to invest in the 
unregulated investment.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension 
transfer must take account of the overall investment  strategy the customer is contemplating.
This alert came  after Blue Oceans recommendation  to Mr W but the alert was issued because  of 
issues that the regulator found when reviewing how some advisers  were operating based on existing 
Ref: DRN091836615regulation. In other words, the alert was a reminder  of existing obligations under the COBS  rules  it 
did not introduce a new set of obligations.
Here Blue Ocean was aware that the transaction involved Mr W switching a significant amount  of his 
pension provision,  which  was to be invested  in a single unregulated esoteric investment.
Blue Ocean  said it had considered the investment and given risk warnings. I do not think  that giving  
risk warnings fulfilled Blue Oceans  obligation  to give suitable advice. 
Blue Ocean  should have given suitable advice  in respect of the overall  transaction, in line with the 
obligations set out above. It ought to have been clear to Blue Ocean  that proceeding  on the basis  that 
it did was not acting in Mr Ws best interests, in fact quite the opposite.
What would  suitable advice  have been?
Having concluded  that Blue Ocean ought to have considered  the entirety of the transaction and given 
suitable advice, I have thought about what suitable advice would  have been based on what I know  
about Mr Ws circumstances at the time.
Blue Ocean  advised against transferring the policies  with GARs attached, I think  this advice was 
suitable. 
I am not persuaded that Mr W was genuinely a high-risk  investor with the requisite knowledge to 
understand the risks involved with the transaction or the capacity  for loss to bear these. From  the 
point of transfer the pension transferred was subject to higher charges and exposed to a significantly 
higher level of risk. I am not convinced that there was any justification for this in this instance.   
Blue Ocean  knew that Mr W was intending to put all of the monies  from the personal pension  plan 
transferred to the SIPP into a single unregulated  esoteric investment  specifically Harlequin   in light 
of Mr Ws circumstances, this was enough for it to know that the course  of action was not suitable.
Blue Ocean  had assessed Mr Ws attitude  to investment risk as medium   high. I consider  the 
Harlequin investment was speculative. It was unsuitable for Blue Ocean to recommend that Mr W 
transfer around a third of his pension provision to a SIPP to invest in a single speculative  asset, 
thereby exposing  his pension  to a much higher level of risk than he had agreed to.
I note the regulators good and poor practice report, published  in July 2010, states an example of 
good practice with regards unregulated investments held in a portfolio was no more than 3% to 5% 
and being monitored on a regular basis. 
Blue Ocean  did highlight to Mr W within  the suitability  letter  that:
Single property investments  lack any element of diversification and should  generally  be 
considered a higher  risk strategy. This is due to the funds being  tied up in property that may 
be difficult to sell at retirement or upon death. In addition  there are the costs of buying a 
property which must be taken into account when  considering this strategy.
Blue Ocean  should have advised Mr W not to transfer the pension to a SIPP  to make the investment  
and explained why it was unsuitable because of the level of risk and the lack of diversification. This 
explanation ought to have  been specific to Harlequin  and the risks involved with that investment. I do 
not think  that giving risk warnings made unsuitable  advice suitable. 
The Harlequin  investment was unregulated  and highly geared with additional  borrowing to fund the 
property development. I am not persuaded Mr W was an experienced investor in unregulated 
speculative overseas  property  developments.
I have taken into account that Mr W was an architect. He had a significant buy-to-let portfolio and had 
invested in a couple of property developments  although at the time of the investment neither of 
these had completed.  And, that he was keen to protect his investment from potential  fluctuations in 
Ref: DRN091836616the stock market, Mr W appears to have thought this to be a considerable  risk given the market 
conditions at the time.
Blue Ocean  should have recommended that Mr W retain his personal pension or switch to a low-cost  
alternative such as a stakeholder plan and invest in a suitable range of funds. Based on the available 
correspondence, Mr W was keen to avoid fluctuations in the stock market.  His concerns were 
understandable considering the timing of the advice. Taking this into account I think it would have 
been reasonable to recommend he invest his fund more cautiously  for example, in funds  that 
included fixed interest instruments, bonds and cash. 
What would  Mr W have done if suitable advice had been given?
Having concluded  that Blue Ocean ought to have advised against the switch to the SIPP for the 
purposes of investing in Harlequin, I have thought about what   if anything  Mr W would  have done 
differently had he received  suitable advice.
Blue Ocean  said Mr W would have gone ahead with the investment anyway and provided examples  
of decisions by this service where  the ombudsman had rejected complaints for that reason. I cannot  
comment on the merits of the complaints Blue Ocean has referenced, we deal with each complaint 
based on its individual merits. I do not agree  that Mr W would  have transferred to a SIPP and invested 
in Harlequin  if Blue Ocean  had done  what I have found it ought to have done.
Mr W approached Blue Ocean for advice.  Based  on the available correspondence  Mr W was reliant  
on Blue Oceans expertise. I do not doubt that Mr W was very keen on the Harlequin  investment 
based on what he had been  told about this by Harlequin.  This, if anything, made  it all the more 
important for Blue Ocean to give comprehensive and frank advice.  I have not seen enough to lead me 
to conclude that Mr W was intent on a course of action regardless of the advice he received from Blue 
Ocean. I find it reasonable  Mr W would have likely accepted professional advice  from his financial 
adviser. 
As noted above, I have taken into account that Mr W was an architect.  He had a significant buy-to-let 
portfolio and had invested in a couple of property developments  although at the time of the 
investment neither of these  had completed. One of these was Harlequin. Again, this speaks to Mr Ws 
keenness to invest  in the scheme, but it also made making a further investment in it through  his 
pension all the more unsuitable. 
It is clear from the available correspondence  that Mr W was looking to protect  his investment from 
potential fluctuations in the stock market  to the extent that he was willing to consider  going against 
Blue Oceans advice. That said, I think it is important to note that he did not ultimately go against Blue 
Oceans advice. Equally, it is important to understand  Mr Ws motivations for this  he was concerned 
about losing money from his pension   in turn, I think that clear advice  against investing  in Harlequin, 
in which it ought to have  been highlighted  that [in pursuing the course  of action he was] Mr W was 
exposing his pension to considerably more  risk as opposed to avoiding it, would have deterred him 
from investing his pension in Harlequin.
I think  that Mr W would not have ended up in a SIPP invested in Harlequin if Blue Ocean  had done 
what I have found it ought to have done, so I find that it is fair and reasonable for Blue Ocean to 
compensate him in full for his losses. In addition  to the financial losses that Mr W has suffered I think 
that losing around a third of his pension  caused  Mr W a significant amount  of distress  and upset. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably now be 
in if he had been given  suitable advice. 
I think  Mr W would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr Ws circumstances  
Ref: DRN091836617and objectives when he invested.
What should Blue Ocean  do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Blue Ocean must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Ws investment with that of the benchmark  shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Blue Ocean should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Blue Ocean  should pay into Mr Ws pension plan to increase  its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Blue Ocean is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ws pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ws actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr W £500  for the loss of a significant portion of his pension provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Blue Ocean  deducts income tax from the interest, 
it should  tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Blue Ocean should give Mr W a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Monies 
transferred 
into the 
SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
Ref: DRN091836618is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in this case. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Blue Ocean  should take ownership 
of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial  value  acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Blue Ocean is unable to purchase the investment  the actual value should  be assumed  to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Blue Ocean may require that Mr W provides an undertaking  to pay Blue 
Ocean any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must  allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing  the receipt  from the pension plan.  Blue Ocean 
will need  to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Blue Ocean  should use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Any additional sum that Mr W paid into the investment  should be added  to the fair value calculation  at 
the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if Blue Ocean totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted  capital growth with a small  risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to his capital.  
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
I consider that Mr Ws risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr W into that position.  It does not mean that Mr W would have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr W could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.  
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Blue Ocean  Investment  Company Limited  
should pay the amount  calculated as set out above. 
Ref: DRN0918366