K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC reduced  their mortgage current account 
reserve limit without their agreement.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a mortgage with Barclays, which is on repayment  terms. Alongside  the 
mortgage, they have a mortgage current account  (MCA). The MCA has a reserve  limit 
allowing Mr and Mrs M to borrow further  funds, up to an agreed limit. The MCS reserve  is, in 
effect, a secured overdraft. While it attracts interest,  no monthly repayments are required  
but Mr and Mrs M will have to pay as a lump sum any MCA balance that exists  at the end of 
the mortgage term, which is due in around two years time.
Previously the MCA had re-balanced  as the repayment mortgage balance came  down 
over time, the MCA reserve limit went up so that Mr and Mrs M had access  to the same 
overall borrowing  as their original mortgage.
However, Barclays has changed its policy towards MCA accounts and in recent years has 
reviewed the reserve  limits on individual accounts. It wrote to Mr and Mrs M telling them  that 
it intended to reduce  the reserve limit  they wouldnt  be required to repay an existing  
borrowing, as the limit would be higher than the current balance, but their access to further 
borrowing would be restricted. Barclays invited Mr and Mrs M to contact it if they wanted to 
keep a higher  limit, and when they didnt, it reduced the limit to just above their current  
borrowing. 
This meant Mr and Mrs M could  no longer  withdraw any funds  from the MCA. So they 
complained. They wanted the reserve limit reinstated. Barclays  didnt agree.
Mr and Mrs M said it couldnt  reduce  the limit because it changed the nature of their 
mortgage. It wasnt fair as they had an intended use for the money.  Barclays hadnt 
considered their own circumstances before reducing  the limit. It couldnt produce  the signed  
mortgage deed, so couldnt show that they had accepted the terms and conditions  Barclays 
said it could rely on. And they said it had only written to Mr M, not Mrs M, which  wasnt fair.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint, so Mr and Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Barclays no longer  has the signed mortgage  deed or a copy of the 
original mortgage  offer. If Mr and Mrs M think this means their mortgage is no longer legally 
enforceable, thats not something  I can decide   questions of the strict enforceability  of 
contracts are a matter  for the courts.
However, the charge is properly registered  at the Land Registry. Mr and Mrs M havent  
suggested they didnt borrow the money  or that the mortgage never existed. I think  its fair 
and reasonable to proceed on the basis that this is a valid mortgage that both parties are 
bound by.
Ref: DRN02780492Barclays has standard terms and conditions for all its mortgages. While,  without the signed  
mortgage deed Mr and Mrs M have argued  it cant definitively be shown they agreed  to 
them, I think its more likely than not that they did. Otherwise the funds  would never have 
been lent and the charge would never have been registered.  The existence of the mortgage  
shows, to my mind, that it was created in the first place  and, if it was, it would  have been  
on the standard terms and conditions (as varied since). So I think its fair and reasonable to 
proceed on the basis that Barclays  standard terms and conditions are the terms and 
conditions applicable to this mortgage.
The terms and conditions  allow Barclays to vary the MCA reserve limit, including  by reducing  
it. The terms also allow Barclays to communicate  only with the first named borrower, whose 
responsibility it is to pass things on to other borrowers. So although the letters Ive seen 
show that Barclays wrote to both Mr and Mrs M, even if it didnt that wouldnt mean it couldnt 
change the MCA.  
That means I think Barclays  was acting within the terms and conditions when it reduced the 
reserve limit. It had the power  to do what it did  the question I now need to decide is 
whether that was fair.
I think it was. The MCA reserve is, in effect, an interest only mortgage. Theres no obligation 
to make monthly payments to reduce the capital, and it seems  Mr and Mrs M werent  doing  
so. When the end of the term approaches, in a couple of years,  Mr and Mrs M will either 
have to have paid the reserve  off by then  or be able to find a large lump sum at the end.
I dont know what their plans for doing  that are  and nor did Barclays  when it wrote to them.  
The regulator requires,  through its rules and guidance, lenders to stay in touch with 
borrowers of interest only mortgages to make sure there are plans in place to repay them  at 
the end of the term.
This isnt, strictly speaking,  an interest only mortgage. But, as Ive said,  it behaves like one  
with the addition that (subject to the reserve limit) Mr and Mrs M can increase their borrowing 
at any time.
I think it was good  practice for Barclays to want to understand their plans for managing the 
MCA reserve and how it would be paid back. And its sensible, if there are no plans in place, 
to remove the chance  of significantly  increasing  the borrowing  further. So, when  Barclays 
wrote to Mr and Mrs M and they didnt  reply, it reduced the reserve  limit. This didnt require 
them to pay any money back at that time  but it did prevent them increasing their borrowing 
further without  having  those discussions. I think that was fair and in the best interests  of both 
parties. I dont therefore think  that Barclays did anything  wrong.  If Mr and Mrs M are in a 
position to have that discussion  with Barclays now, it may be able to reconsider  but I dont 
require it to do so, not least  because the end of the term is now approaching.
I dont think Mr Ms analogy with his credit card and the higher rate of interest he pays on 
that takes things  any further either.  Barclays didnt  require  any extra money  to be repaid 
when it reduced the reserve  limit  it just restricted access to further borrowing. And, unlike 
the credit  card  which has a much smaller balance  the full amount of the debt is due to be 
paid back within a couple of years, and its secured on Mr and Mrs Ms home. 
Ref: DRN02780493my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0278049