K822xcomplaint
Miss P complains  about how London  and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) handled a mortgage  
application made on her behalf.
background 
Miss P owned a property that her father  and his partner lived in. It was mortgaged to a 
lender Ill call L. Her father decided to downsize so Miss P applied to L to port the mortgage  
to a new property.  Miss P already owned  two properties outright (one she lived in and one 
her mother  lived in), and two others with buy to let mortgages. The plan was to re-mortgage 
her fathers old property to a buy to let mortgage  to raise funds to buy the new one, 
alongside the ported mortgage. 
L told her that it would  only be able to accept an application made by a broker, so Miss P 
went to L&C.  She spoke to an adviser  who took information about her needs and 
circumstances and recommended  a mortgage with L.
The mortgage application took some  time to go through and there were issues with the 
property Miss P wanted to buy as a result. There were delays on the part of both L and L&C. 
Eventually L agreed  to Miss P porting  her mortgage and issued an offer  but only on the 
condition that she sold her fathers old property rather than keeping it and renting it out. 
When that wasnt possible, the mortgage application fell through.
Miss P complained to both L and L&C. L offered her compensation totalling  £1,500  
(including the refund of some fees,  as well as compensation for trouble and upset). Miss P 
accepted our investigators view that this was fair. And in this complaint,  our investigator said 
that L&C should increase its initial offer of £50 compensation  to £500, and refund the fees 
Miss P paid to her solicitor on its recommendation that she could go ahead. L&C accepted 
that, but Miss P didnt.  She also wanted it to cover the costs  of furniture her father had 
disposed of in the expectation  of moving  house but then had to replace, as well as the 
disposal costs. As no agreement could be reached, the case  comes to me for a decision to 
be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  here that L&C made  mistakes, and has to put them  right. The question I 
have to decide is what it fairly needs  to do now to settle the matter.
L&C delayed in submitting  the mortgage application to L. And the application it submitted 
was incomplete  it didnt  include all the properties Miss P owned, even though shed given it 
full information  from the start. And the total from the buy to let mortgage (which L&C was 
also arranging) and this mortgage  wouldnt be enough to buy the new property even if all 
went smoothly. All this caused  in the context of trying to progress her fathers  move  under 
some time pressure  substantial trouble  and upset to Miss P. Our investigator 
recommended £500  compensation, which L&C accepted. Having considered all the 
circumstances, I think  thats fair. 
Ref: DRN07423742Miss P points to the £1,500 compensation she received from L. But I dont think  that means 
she should fairly get the same from L&C. That figure included the refund of some fees. And I 
need to think about the overall impact  of what happened and the impact of that on Miss P, 
and then bear in mind  that shes already been partially compensated  by L. I think  the offer of 
£500 from L&C is fair.
I also think L&C should refund the solicitors costs,  less the £74 refund Miss P has already 
received, since she was advised by L&C to go ahead and instruct  the solicitors before there 
was a mortgage offer in place.
But I dont think it would  be fair to ask L&C to refund the additional costs, for the disposal 
and replacement of her fathers  furniture. Miss P and her family decided to incur those costs 
before a formal  mortgage offer was in place, and therefore before they could be sure theyd 
be able to move. And I cant see that they did so on L&Cs advice. So I dont think  its 
responsible for those  costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
London & Country Mortgages Ltd to pay Miss P:
£500 compensation; and
£251 towards the solicitors fees.
In addition, London & Country Mortgages  Ltd should  add simple annual interest of 8%* to 
the £251, running from the date Miss P paid the solicitors to the date of refund. And if the 
£500 is not paid within 28 days of the date we notify  London & Country Mortgages Ltd that 
Miss P has accepted  this final decision  if she does  simple  annual interest of 8%* should 
be added  to run from the 29th day to the date of payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If London & Country Mortgages  Ltd considers it should deduct income  tax from the 8% interest 
element of my award it may do so, but should  give Miss P the necessary documentation, if she asks 
for it, so that she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC if shes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN0742374