K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  handled her claim on 
her home insurance. 
background
This complaint relates to a claim that has been ongoing since 2000.  At that time Mrs B had 
insurance with a different insurer, who were later taken  over by Lloyds. 
The original  claim was for subsidence  and the original insurer  carried  out some repairs.  In 
2008 Lloyds took over and appointed  a contractor to carry out further  repairs.  However 
Mrs B has expressed dissatisfaction at the standard of workmanship throughout the claim. 
She has had a lot of snagging issues that she feels  have never been properly resolved and 
have caused further problems.
Throughout the claim she made a number of complaints  which Lloyds responded to. In 2018 
she felt there  were a number of issues outstanding that Lloyds hadnt fully addressed in its 
most recent response.  So she brought her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and concluded  that due to the number of 
outstanding issues,  and the length  of time the case had been  going  on for, a new visit should  
be arranged to inspect  the outstanding damage. She recommended Lloyds appoint an 
independent surveyor  to visit the property  with Lloyds contractor, to assess  the damage and 
report on the likely cause.  
Since then a report has been provided.  Our investigator considered  the report and 
concluded that Lloyds should  carry out the following:
Reimburse Mrs B for repairs to her roof, on receipt of an invoice for the work.
Reimburse Mrs B for the redecorating  costs for the first-floor bedrooms. 
Replace and reinstall  the flags in the garden.
Rectify  the issue with the windows and patio door.
Replace the tiles that are failing in the bathroom  or cash settle for the required amount. 
Pay Mrs B £400 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her. 
Mrs B agreed to most  of the recommendations. However she didnt think  £400  was enough 
to make up for the distress she had been caused.
Lloyds agreed  to cover some of the work.  However it felt further investigations should be 
carried out into the cause of the damage  to the windows, before liability  was accepted.  It 
also said it had paid out for half of the cost of the tiles at an earlier point  in the claim so didnt 
agree it should  now replace them.  It asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
After the complaint came to me, I came to a slightly different outcome to our investigator. I 
agreed that Lloyds  should:
Reimburse Mrs B for repairs to her roof, on receipt of an invoice for the work.
Reimburse Mrs B for the redecorating  costs for the first floor bedrooms. 
Replace and reinstall  the flags in the garden.
Rectify  the issue with the kitchen door and windows.
Ref: DRN0386166**If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers it should  deduct income tax from any 
8% interest element of my award it may do so, but should give Mrs B the necessary 
certificate.However as Lloyds had already paid an amount towards a claim  for the bathroom  tiles 
previously, I didnt think it was fair for it to pay for the total cost of replacing  the tiles. Instead 
I thought it should pay the remaining 50% of the claim that wasnt  paid - £1,321.97  plus 8% 
simple interest since the date the first amount  was paid. 
In regards to the windows  and kitchen door I agreed with our investigator that any problems 
should be rectified by Lloyds,  as Id not seen anything  to persuade  me that the damage has 
been caused by anything  other than matters  relating  to the claim.  I said I accepted there  will 
need to be some investigation  to identify the problems, if any. But where problems are found  
these should be repaired or replaced by Lloyds
I also thought  Lloyds should  pay additional  compensation  as I felt the actions of it and its 
contractors has had a big impact on the progress of the matter and this has led to a number 
of items remaining outstanding  many  years after the claim was made. For this reason I 
thought Lloyds should pay a total of £700 compensation. 
I wrote  to both sides with my provisional  findings. Since  then both Mrs B and Lloyds have 
confirmed they accept my proposed outcome. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason  to depart from the 
outcome, for the reasons I have already outlined. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited to:
Pay Mrs B a total of £700  compensation.
Pay Mrs B £1,321.97  for the remaining 50% of the cash settlement for the tiles in the 
bathroom. 
Pay 8% interest  on this amount from the date the other half of the settlement was paid 
until the date the date of payment of the outstanding amount.*
Inspect  the damaged windows and patio door and carry out any required repairs or 
replacements.
Replace, lower  and reinstall the flags in the garden.
Reimburse Mrs B for the repairs to the roof, on receipt of proof  of how much was paid.
Pay the cost of redecorations for the first floor of Mrs Bs property, based on the 
dimensions provided by Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2021.
Ref: DRN0386166**If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers it should  deduct income tax from any 
8% interest element of my award it may do so, but should give Mrs B the necessary 
certificate.Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0386166