K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr D bought the policy in 2004 at the same  time as taking out a credit card.
Mr D has said that he cant remember how he took out the policy.  Capital One has said that 
this policy  was sold during an internet application.  On balance, I think  its more likely than not 
that the policy was sold online.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint because:
I've considered  what we know more widely about how Capital One sold PPI online 
around the time this policy was taken out. 
I think that its more likely than not that Capital One followed  its normal sales process 
during this sale and made Mr D aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But Capital  One did still have to give Mr D good  enough information so that 
he could decide  if the policy was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But Mr D doesnt appear  to have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  based on what hes told us, and what  I know about  his 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ds comments,  including what hes said about  not needing PPI 
because of his existing other means  for making  his credit card repayments.  
Whilst Mr D has said that he had an inheritance, no supporting evidence has been provided 
to support what hes said - despite information  requests  from our Service. Therefore, whilst I 
dont dispute that Mr D may have had an inheritance, I cant fairly place the weight that Mr D 
may have  wanted  me to on it. And I cant say that he wouldnt have found the PPI useful if 
he ever needed  to claim on it. 
Ref: DRN09251692Ive also noted  what Mr D has said about  being able to rely on parental support. But although  
they may have wanted to help, circumstances  can change and they may not have been in a 
position to help when needed. 
Mr D has said that he was entitled  to full sick pay if he was unwell and unable  to work. But 
after 6 months his sick pay would have decreased to half pay. This PPI policy would  have 
paid out for up to 12 months  so I still think that he could have found it useful. 
Although Mr D has said he would  have received a redundancy entitlement  if he was made 
unemployed, given his length of employment I think its more likely that he would have been 
entitled to less than he recalls,  and most  likely less than the 12 months that this PPI policy  
would have paid out for an unemployment claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0925169