K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs unhappy Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  (Aviva) declined his critical illness  claims 
on his life and critical illness insurance policies. 
background
In 2004 Mr B took out a life and critical illness policy with Aviva,  on a decreasing term basis.  
And, in 2010,  he took out a second life and critical illness insurance policy  with it. 
In March 2019 Mr B was hospitalised. Mr Bs consultant  has said he had Sepsis and was 
diagnosed with Peritonitis. And that he underwent an emergency  laparotomy, small bowel 
resection and a right hemicolectomy. Mr Bs consultant also said this was a potentially life-
saving procedure to control his Sepsis.  And that the cause  might  be related to Crohns 
Disease. 
So, Mr B contacted Aviva to make critical illness claims under  both policies. Aviva  declined 
Mr Bs claims, saying Peritonitis and Sepsis  are not covered by his policies, as they arent 
listed critical illnesses. 
Mr B complained to Aviva about  this. And, unhappy with its response, he cancelled his 
policies and brought his complaint to our service,  saying  he feels  hes wasted his money. 
Mr B thinks  Aviva  should take into account  that hes had one of the policies  for years and 
that Avivas new updated policy includes Crohns  Disease.  Mr B also says hes struggling 
financially, as hes been signed off work since his operation and might  not be able to work 
again. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. She said for Mr B to meet  the 
definition of a critical  illness, he must  have  been  diagnosed with at least one of the listed  
illnesses or conditions. But he hasnt and  in view of this  she didnt think Aviva  was 
obliged to meet either of Mr Bs claims.  She also explained his policies are worded in line 
with industry guidance  at the time they were  issued and that Avivas entitled to revise its 
terms for new policies and cant be expected to honour new features on existing policies.
Mr B didnt agree, he says more recent policies cover more critical illnesses. And that his 
condition was critical as he could have died without  the operation. So, he feels his policy 
might have been mis-sold, as they dont cover what he expected. Mr B also provided 
information that Aviva introduced industry  wide best practice definitions for critical illness 
cover in 2007. And that in 2015 it enhanced its critical illness cover to include Ulcerative 
Colitis, which Mr B feels caused  his Peritonitis.  
The investigator put Mr Bs comments to Aviva.  And it said Mr Bs policies are long term 
contracts issued based on information  provided by him at the time of sale, theyre  priced on 
that basis and his policies havent  been amended during their term. It also said the 
information Mr B found reflects its more current  policies and how the product has advanced 
over time. 
The investigator explained her opinion remained the same, so the complaints been passed 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN08082392Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see Mr B experienced Sepsis  and Peritonitis. And that he underwent a small bowel 
resection and hemicolectomy to remove a segment of his colon. But Mr Bs policies only 
cover the listed illnesses, conditions and operations as set out in the relevant policy terms. 
And the illness/conditions Mr B has had arent  listed. I appreciate  Mr B may also have 
Crohns Disease, but his consultants letter doesnt say this is a definite diagnosis  yet. And, 
in any case, neither of his policies cover  this. 
I recognise Mr B feels what he experienced was critical, as it was life threatening. And that 
because of this it should be covered by the policies. And Im sorry to hear all hes been  
through and that hes in financial difficulty now. But Aviva considered his claims in the way 
Id expect, by reviewing his circumstances and diagnosis against his policy  terms, which are 
in line with industry guidance from the time he took them  out. This means I think  its decision 
to decline Mr Bs claims is fair and reasonable.     
Mr Bs found  information suggesting Aviva now covers Ulcerative Colitis and may cover  
Crohns Disease  in the future. But the terms that apply  to Mr Bs claim are those he agreed  
to when he took out his policies. Any decision Aviva has taken since then to enhance  some  
of the products and policies it provides is down to its discretion, and I wouldnt expect it to 
apply these to Mr Bs policies. 
I recognise Mr B may not have understood what his policies  covered and how they worked 
when he took them out. But it was the responsibility  of the financial adviser he bought  these 
through to explain the cover to him. Aviva was only responsible for providing  Mr B with 
information about how his policies worked in a clear,  fair and not misleading way. And Im 
satisfied it did this. 
In summary,  I think Aviva  has acted appropriately  and fairly  in declining  Mr Bs claim. This 
means Im not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  by 15 February 2020. 
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0808239