K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited applied unfair charges at 
the end of his finance  agreement.  He wants the charges to be waived.
background
Mr E tells us that he acquired his vehicle in 2014, from a dealer Ill refer to as Y, on a hire 
purchase agreement  financed by VWFS. In November 2018, near to the end of the term of 
the agreement, he says he contacted VWFS  to discuss options including refinancing  the 
agreement and a short extension. And he says he was told Y might be able to arrange this. 
Mr E says he then contacted Y and believed a short term arrangement  would be put in 
place. But he later saw that VWFS  had tried to take the balloon  payment which  had been 
due at the end of the agreement. On making  enquiries he says he was told that no extension  
had been made and that refinancing was no longer possible as the agreement  had ended.  
Mr E says he later received notice of charges for excess mileage and refurbishment. He 
says he feels at least 50% of the mileage charges should be waived.
VWFS told us it had sent a letter to Mr E, in October  2018,  which  had notified him that the 
agreement was due to end and set out the various  options open to him. It accepted that 
when Mr E made contact,  on 15 November,  it should have been  clearer  in explaining  that it 
would take 21 days for any refinancing of the agreement to be arranged.  It said it had offered 
to waive  an option  to purchase  fee (£60) and a refurbishment charge (£27 + VAT), as well as 
reduce the excess  mileage charge  by 20%.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought in the 
absence of any instruction  from Mr E, VWFS was entitled to end the agreement.  She 
accepted VWFS should have been clearer in explaining the time necessary  to refinance the 
agreement. But she thought the offer of compensation it had made was fair and reasonable.
Mr E didnt agree with this outcome and said he wouldve probably agreed to the extension  
immediately if hed been told of the time needed  to put things in place. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr E is upset about  the additional mileage charges. He feels hes tried to 
arrange an extension  of the agreement  and that this fell through  because of the combined 
failures of Y and VWFS. He clearly thinks Y has failed to make  arrangements  for a short  
term extension which he thought had been agreed  and that VWFS compounded this by 
failing to advise  him of the timescale involved in any refinancing.
I cant look at the actions of Y as its not a party to this complaint. But I accept that if Mr E 
had been aware  of the time necessary to arrange an extension  or refinancing he would 
probably have  taken the required steps.
Ref: DRN05636842However, its also true that VWFS set out in its letter of 30 October 2018, the various options 
open to Mr E including  the possibility of refinancing. And it said that it would take the balloon 
payment on 28 November. Unfortunately, there  seems to have been a misunderstanding  as 
when Mr E contacted  VWFS on 15 November to discuss the possibility of refinancing he said 
he would  ring back once  hed decided how to proceed. But as he thought hed made  
arrangements through Y, it wasnt until the end of November that he again  got in touch with 
VWFS - only to find out it was too late.
Although I understand why Mr E didnt ring back sooner I cant hold VWFS responsible  for 
this as it didnt  have any input into any discussions Mr E may have had with Y. As far as 
VWFS was concerned, as it hadnt  received any contrary instructions  from Mr E it went  
ahead and tried to claim the balloon payment prior to the termination  of the agreement.  In 
doing so I dont think it did anything wrong.  And when it was determined that Mr E didnt  wish 
to make the balloon payment, VWFS  was also entitled to proceed with the termination of the 
agreement and apply  charges in line with the terms and conditions.
I can see that by the time the vehicle  was collected  in January 2019, the excess  mileage 
was over 9,000 miles. Its also fair to say that if Mr E had been able to arrange  a short term 
extension of the agreement that would presumably have involved  some additional payment. 
And the excess mileage  charge would potentially  still have applied  at the end of any 
extension. Mr Es monthly payment on the agreement was just under £400 and he had the 
vehicle in his possession for just over a month after the scheduled end of the agreement. Im 
not aware any charge (other than for any additional mileage) was made.
In the circumstances I think the offer by VWFS to reduce  the end of contract charges by 
waiving the option to purchase fee, the refurbishment charge and reduce the excess  mileage 
by 20% was fair and reasonable. And I shant be asking it to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0563684