K820x#14complaint
Ms S, on behalf of herself and the estate of the Mr S, says Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
The late Mr and Ms S took out a mortgage  in 1998  in one of the banks branches and bought  
PPI at the same time. The policy was in Mr Ss sole name and gave him protection against  
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms S says they were forced to take out PPI and were told it was very important to have 
it. I cant  know what was said in the meeting, but Ive considered  Ms Ss comments  
carefully. I also have  to take into account  how long ago the sale was and how that might 
affect what she recalls.  Lloyds no longer has any of the paperwork from the PPI sale,  
but thats not surprising or unreasonable given  how long ago it was. Without stronger 
evidence I cant fairly  conclude that Lloyds didnt  make it clear  the PPI was optional,  and 
Mr and Ms S didnt agree to take it out for Mr S.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms S, and it seems  to have been right for Mr S 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. The PPI would have paid out 
in addition to any work  benefits Mr S had, and for up to 12 months for each successful 
claim. It would have allowed him to use any savings to cover other living  expenses  whilst 
not working. At the time he was the sole wage earner and Mr and Ms S were borrowing 
quite a large sum over a long period,  secured on their home.  So the effects  of not 
keeping up with the repayments  could  have been  serious for them. Overall, I think the 
PPI would have  been useful for them if Mr S was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt give Mr and Ms S all the information they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. I dont know when the bank first made clear the cost or if it pointed 
out the main things  the PPI didnt  cover. But Mr and Ms S dont appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions.  And the PPI was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  So I dont think better  information  about the PPI wouldve changed 
their mind  about  buying  it.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Ms S lost out because  of any problems with the sale. 
Ref: DRN00375332my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0037533