K821x#15complaint
Mr E is unhappy that AWP  P&C SA has used a policy  condition  and exclusion to decline his 
lost luggage claim  under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr E was travelling with two large  suitcases and one slightly smaller bag containing his 
valuables. The smaller  bag is described  as hand luggage weighing 15Kg. When  he arrived 
abroad, he got a taxi from the airport. With the help of the taxi driver, he placed all three 
items of luggage in the boot of the car. Mr E then travelled  to a pre-arranged location where 
he was to meet his wife. They hadn't seen each other for several months, so while they 
greeted and embraced each other, the taxi driver moved the luggage from the taxi boot and 
placed it in the boot of Mr E's wife's car. Mr E paid the taxi driver and they went their 
separate ways.  When Mr E arrived at his final destination, he discovered that the hand 
luggage was missing. Mr E tried to locate the taxi driver with a view to finding  his lost 
luggage but was unsuccessful.  Mr E made a claim to AWP.
AWP declined the claim.  It referred to the conditions and exclusions of the policy.  These 
focussed on reasonable care, protection of his property and the security of his personal 
possessions. AWP said that Mr E had left his luggage unattended and in the care of the taxi 
driver while greeting his wife. So, it said he was not in a position to prevent unauthorised 
interference with his property. Mr E brought a complaint to this service.
Mr E told us he doesn't think he was negligent. He said it was instinctive to embrace his wife 
after having  been apart for so long.  He said that having the assistance of a taxi driver to 
move luggage  is a globally acceptable  thing  to do and he trusted the taxi driver to do it. He 
has likened  this to leaving his luggage  with staff at the airport  when checking in. Mr E says 
that he never left his luggage unattended at any time during the journey.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She said it was fair for AWP to rely on the 
reasonable care condition. She said Mr E should've  checked all the luggage  had been 
transferred to his wife's  car before continuing  his journey. Mr E didn't accept this and asked 
for his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said.
The policy document says:
"condition - reasonable  care
The following  conditions apply to the whole of your policy. Please read these carefully as we 
can only pay your claim if you meet these.... You take reasonable care to protect yourself  
and your property against  accident, injury, loss and damage and act as if you are not insured 
and to minimise any potential claim"
For this condition to apply there needs to be evidence to show  that Mr E acted in a way that 
amounted to recklessness, i.e. he recognised a risk but took the risk anyway. This might 
include taking measures  which he knew were  inadequate or even no measures at all. I think  
AWP are suggesting that Mr E knew that he would be moving his luggage between two cars 
Ref: DRN05425462and so could've considered wearing  or holding the hand luggage. However,  this weighed 
15kg and the security  requirements allow for luggage being kept in a locked boot and out of 
sight. So, it seems reasonable to have kept the hand luggage  there during the taxi journey.
Mr E had entered into a business  transaction  with the taxi driver.  I agree with Mr E that it's 
generally accepted that a taxi driver will help their passengers with their luggage. When Mr E 
entrusted the taxi driver to transfer the luggage  from one car to another, I think  this was an 
entirely reasonable action and is carried out by taxi drivers on a regular  basis.
While the taxi driver was moving the luggage Mr E was greeting and embracing his wife who 
he hadn't seen  for a long time. Based on what I've said above and normal day to day actions 
I can't see how AWP consider Mr E to have acted recklessly To me it's clear that Mr E didn't 
perceive or consider  any risk. If he wasn't aware  of a risk, then I can't see how AWP can 
decline his claim stating  that Mr E didn't take reasonable care.
"exclusion - securing personal possession
What you are not covered for
Personal possessions  unless they are on your person, locked  in the accommodation  you are 
using on your journey  or they are out of sight in the locked boot or covered luggage area of a 
locked motor vehicle"
Mr E had satisfied the requirement of the policy by keeping the luggage  in a locked boot. 
However, there came a time when  the luggage  had to be transferred  from one car to 
another. This exclusion  says personal  possessions  should be on the insured. However, for 
all the reasons I have  set out above, the weight of the bag, the usual  taxi driver 
arrangements, and the close  proximity  of the luggage, I don't think that it would be fair or 
reasonable for AWP to apply this exclusion in these circumstances. Mr E has been  clear 
about what happened and how the incident  occurred. I don't think  the exclusion is really 
aimed at situations  like the one Mr E found himself in.
I think AWP should deal with Mr E's claim taking into consideration the remaining terms and 
conditions. If after revisiting  this claim it agrees to pay Mr E for the loss it would be fair for 
AWP to add simple interest  at 8% per year of the amount agreed, from the date of claim to 
the claim settlement  date.
I've considered further the issue of compensation for distress and inconvenience and Mr E's 
recent response to our investigator. I don't think there's  clear evidence of a need for AWP to 
do more than deal with the claim.
response to my provisional  decision
Mr E responded to say he wasnt happy about not getting any compensation based on my 
provisional decision. But he wants the matter  resolved as quickly as possible, so hell accept 
it.
AWP responded to say it had nothing further  to add.
Ref: DRN05425463my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses to my provisional decision I see no reason to change  any of my 
findings.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct to AWP P&C SA to:
 Deal with Mr E's claim taking into consideration the remaining policy terms and conditions.
 It should add 8%* simple interest on any settlement amount from the date of the original 
claim until the settlement  date.
*If AWP P&C SA considers that it's required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much it's taken off. It should  also give Mr E a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0542546