K820x#14complaint 
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined  his balance  transfer.  Hes also unhappy with 
the level of service hes received from them. 
background
In August  2018  Mr A received an email from Lloyds telling him about  promotional offers on 
his credit card. One of these offers  was for 0% interest on balance transfers for 15 months.
Mr A wanted  to take advantage of this offer. He paid the balance on his Lloyds credit card 
account with the intention  of then making  a balance transfer to pay off credit  cards he held 
with other  banks which had higher interest rates. But when he tried to make  the balance  
transfer it was declined by Lloyds. 
Mr A complained to Lloyds as he felt their promotional  email implied his balance  transfer  
would be approved. They sent him a letter saying they would look into his complaint within 
15 days. But he didnt  receive any further response  from them, so he brought his complaint 
to our service.
Mr A estimates he has lost between £200  and £300  as a result  of not being able to make  
sufficient payments to his other credit  card accounts, and having to pay interest on those  
balances. He thinks Lloyds should  compensate him for this.
Lloyds said that although they do send promotional offers to customers  from time to time,  
these are subject to approval.  And they explained that they declined  Mr As balance transfer 
as his application wasnt approved. They also said they had tried to contact  him about his 
complaint but had been unable to speak  to him, so they had sent him a letter with their final 
response on 14 September  2018.
Our adjudicator felt that Lloyds  were  entitled  to decline  Mr As balance transfer. They  also 
didnt think that Lloyds had provided him with poor service.
Mr A disagrees. He doesnt  think he received  the service he should  have done from Lloyds. 
He feels they ignored his communications  and that he should at least receive an apology  
from them for this. So the case has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr A will be disappointed,  but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons. I cant  
see any evidence that Lloyds have treated him unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
I appreciate it would have been very disappointing for Mr A when Lloyds declined his 
balance transfer.  Lloyds have explained  that whilst they do sometimes offer promotional 
transfer rates to customers, they are subject to terms and conditions and approval. Theyve 
told us that after looking at Mr As account  information and his credit rating they didnt 
approve his application to make the balance  transfer. 
Ref: DRN00372802Mr A thought  the fact Lloyds were sending him details of the offer meant he was pre-
approved for it. Ive looked at the promotional email he received, and I can see that it did 
clearly advise him to Apply and also explained  that the offers were subject to status. So I 
agree with our adjudicator, I dont think that it was guaranteed he would be able to make  a 
balance transfer  at the promotional rate. And Im satisfied  that Lloyds have followed their 
usual process by carrying out a review after he submitted his balance  transfer request. 
Mr A has told us he now appreciates that Lloyds were entitled to decline his balance 
transfer. But hes raised some issues with how they communicated  with him. I understand 
hes upset, but I havent  seen anything  to suggest  that they didnt deal with him in the way Id 
expect. 
Lloyds records indicate they sent him a text message and an email on the 11 September  
2018 asking him to contact them so they could get some more  information from him. They 
provided him with their phone number, and an extension number to take him through to the 
person dealing with his complaint. They also tried to call him that day. The same  text 
message and email  were  sent to him again on 14 September  2018. And Lloyds have  
recorded that they got through to him on the telephone that day, but Mr A said he couldnt 
speak to them. So theyve  shown us that they sent him a final response letter about his 
complaint.
I think there has been some confusion  because these later attempts to contact  Mr A crossed 
over with an acknowledgment letter Lloyds sent to him the same day saying that they would 
telephone him. I can see the letter was issued before they spoke to Mr A on the telephone. 
So Im satisfied Lloyds  did do what they said they would  here.  
After Mr A told them he didnt want to talk on the telephone about  his complaint, Lloyds 
issued a final response letter to him with their final view on the matter. This was also sent on 
14 September 2018. Mr A didnt receive  their final response letter,  but I can see that it was 
sent to the correct address. So whilst I appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mr A, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible  for this.
Mr A sent Lloyds an email  chasing  a response to his complaint on 29 October 2018, but 
Lloyds didnt reply.  Theyve said that this was because they had already responded to the 
same query in their final response letter. 
Our adjudicator has already explained that we wouldnt  necessarily expect a business  to 
keep corresponding  with a consumer on an issue after theyve  issued a final response letter. 
And Ive looked  at the email Mr A sent and thought  about whether it was fair and reasonable 
for Lloyds  to take that view here based on what hed said.  Mr A referred to having  received a 
letter, but no further response from Lloyds. Its clear now that Mr A was referring to the 
acknowledgement letter when he wrote this  but I dont think  this would have been obvious 
to Lloyds at the time. They had a record on file that he had been sent a final response letter. 
So I think its reasonable that they could have concluded that he was referring  to this letter in 
his email. And that as they had nothing further  to add to their final response letter, they didnt 
reply.
I appreciate this would  have  been a frustrating experience for Mr A. But as I dont think  
Lloyds have done anything wrong here,  I wont be asking them  to make an apology or pay 
him any compensation. 
Ref: DRN00372803my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0037280