K820x#14The complaint
Ms O complains about a store card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  sold by 
AXA France  IARD (AXA) in 1998. 
AXA, the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for this sale.  So, in my decision, Ill just refer to 
AXA as the PPI seller.  Ms O says AXA mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Os case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of the store  card application form Ms O signed. It appears AXA 
made her aware that she had a choice about  adding PPI and that she chose  to take 
it by ticking the relevant  box on the form. I can understand if she doesnt  remember 
that now, after all this time.
I dont consider that AXA recommend ed the PPI to Ms O. So, it didnt have  to check 
if the PPI was right for her. But AXA should have given her the information she 
needed to decide  for herself  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And I can see why, as she was only entitled to full sick pay for a 
short time, whereas  the PPI benefits were considerable and would have paid out for 
much longer. It covered her for unemployment too. And Ms O had no other means 
of meeting the monthly card repayments  if she wasnt working. I also think  its likely 
Ms O realised  there  was a cost for the cover.
Based  on what Ive seen of Ms Os circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
shed have been significantly affected  by any of the exclusions  to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover  so it would  have been  useful to her if something went wrong.  
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Ms Os lost out because of how AXA sold her 
the PPI.
Ref: DRN00930402My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0093040