K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how Social Money  Limited trading as BridgeCrowd treated 
them when their bridging loan fell due for payment.
background
Mr and Mrs L lived in their own property.  They had a first charge residential mortgage, and a 
secured loan, but had substantial equity.
They were  self-employed,  but unfortunately as they came towards the end of their working 
lives their business collapsed because the market  for the service they provided disappeared 
in their area.
They had a substantial  business overdraft, which the lending bank called in. Mr and Mrs L 
decided to sell their property to clear their debts and downsize. But they couldnt  find a buyer  
straightaway and their bank was increasingly insistent that the overdraft be repaid. So 
Mr and Mrs L approached  Social  Money for a second charge bridging loan. 
They borrowed £121,000  over a six-month term of which £21,000 was fees and rolled up 
interest, and £100,000 paid to them  to clear  the secured  loan and the business overdraft, 
with some capital left over. They intended to repay  the bridging loan and first charge  
mortgage with the proceeds  of the sale of their property. At the end of the term, 
Mr and Mrs L hadnt been able to sell, so they asked  Social  Money to extend  the term.
Instead of extending the term, Social Money  rolled  the loan over into a new bridging loan 
agreement, also for six months. Further fees and rolled up interest were added. At the end of 
the new loan,  Mr and Mrs L still hadnt been able to sell their property. Social Money  agreed 
another new bridging loan agreement, and six months later agreed a fourth agreement  
again adding  further fees and rolled up interest each time.
By the end of 2016, Mr and Mrs L still hadnt been  able to sell their property two years  after 
first taking out the bridging loan. Social Money  said it wouldnt agree to another loan 
agreement, and needed to call the debt in. It appointed receivers  to manage and sell the 
property and Mr and Mrs L moved into rented accommodation. The property was eventually  
sold, but for less than Mr and Mrs L had hoped. 
Once further fees and the cost of the receivers had been added to the loan, Mr and Mrs L 
eventually paid back around £270,000. They  complained that this was unfair and 
extortionate compared  to the amount theyd originally borrowed. They complained  that the 
valuation done  when the first loan was taken out was too high. They said Social Money  
hadnt treated  them  fairly.  They said it had communicated  with them  poorly. For example, it 
gave them an inaccurate redemption figure  when  the receivers were  appointed  this led 
them to believe they had much more equity  than they did. And relying on that they spent 
money on removing  fittings from the house and putting them in storage, thinking theyd be 
able to buy somewhere new rather than having to rent.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint, in part. He thought Social  Money 
could have done more to support Mr and Mrs L when they couldnt sell their property. He 
said creating new loan agreements, and charging further fees to do so, wasnt in their best 
interests. And he thought Social Money could have  appointed receivers to sell the property 
Ref: DRN08654682sooner. He said Social Money should  refund the fees charged to set up the third and fourth  
agreements.
Social Money didnt  agree. It said it had looked at all the circumstances and tried to act in 
Mr and Mrs Ls best interests. It gave them time to sell the property and recommended they 
reconsider the selling price. It said that if it hadnt  created new agreements  Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have paid the set up fees  but instead  theyd have paid default fees and default 
interest, so would have  been worse off overall.  The case therefore comes to me for a final 
decision to be made.
I took a different view of the case, so I issued a provisional decision so the parties could 
comment on my thinking. I said:
Its important to set out that Social Money  isnt in fact the lender here. Its business 
model is that it raises  funds from investors  looking to invest in bridging loans, and 
matches an investor or investors to a particular loan and borrower. Social Money  
manages the process but isnt itself the lender. However, in regulatory terms its 
administering the debt on behalf of the lender(s)  and exercising  their rights and 
duties, and so its responsible for answering this complaint.
Ill start by saying that I have much sympathy with the position Mr and Mrs L found 
themselves in during 2014  at the end of their working lives, faced with the collapse 
of their business and with outstanding debts to repay. I can understand that this 
would have been a very difficult and upsetting time for them.
As Mr and Mrs L have said, they were  being  put under considerable pressure by their 
creditors, especially in relation to the unsecured overdraft.  Theyd  decided  to sell 
their house  to downsize and use the equity to repay their debts, but they couldnt find 
a buyer   theyd  had offers, but theyd fallen through.
Im not sure how Mr and Mrs L came  to get in contact  with Social Money.  Neither 
party has made reference to a broker introducing them  to Social Money,  though I 
note the original agreement includes a fee paid to a broker. At any rate I think its 
clear Social Money didnt  give Mr and Mrs L advice on whether the loan was right for 
them, and if they did receive advice from a broker, they would need to complain to 
the broker if they didnt think the advice was right.
Social Money didnt  give them advice. That means  Social Money was under no 
obligation to make sure the loan was suitable for Mr and Mrs L  but it was required 
to give them clear, fair and not misleading information so that they could make up 
their own minds about whether it was right for them. And it was required to act fairly 
in all the circumstances, which  to my mind  includes considering whether it could 
responsibly lend.  
I think its fairly clear that, in hindsight, taking out a series of bridging loans wasnt  the 
right thing for Mr and Mrs L to have  done.  As they point out, its ended up costing 
them their home and a great deal of money.  Im very aware of what  the 
consequences have  ended up being  for them. But in order to decide this complaint, I 
cant use the hindsight  of my knowledge of how things actually turned out  instead, I 
must use what was known, and reasonably foreseeable, at the relevant times.
Ref: DRN08654683It seems  to me that there were a series of steps  along the path between  where  Mr 
and Mrs L were in 2014 and where  they are now, and at each of those  steps there 
were choices to be made. The first was when they decided  to take out a bridging 
loan; then there was each  occasion when the loan was rolled over into a new one; 
and, finally, there was when Social Money decided  not to lend anymore and instead 
to appoint receivers.
In 2014, as Ive explained,  Mr and Mrs L were in a difficult position.  They  were being  
pursued by their creditors, especially their bank,  and were having difficulty selling 
their house.
A bridging  loan is a form of short-term finance  designed to bridge the gap between 
two positions.  A situation like this one  where  short-term finance is needed to clear  a 
debt pending the sale of an asset   is a relatively common one. 
In this particular  case, its clear to me from the evidence at the time that Mr and Mrs L 
felt under significant pressure from their bank. They didnt have the capital available  
to repay  the overdraft.  So their options were  either  to sit back and wait for the bank to 
take action (possibly  including legal  action),  or to raise the capital in some  way. As 
their house  hadnt  sold,  and they didnt have substantial income to demonstrate they 
could afford  a conventional loan, it seems likely to me that a bridging loan was 
possibly the only alternative open  to them.
At this first fork in the road,  then,  Mr and Mrs L chose  the path of raising  finance  to 
pay off the bank, rather than waiting for the bank to take action. As their house was 
on the market, they thought  understandably  that it was only needed for a short 
time until they had access to the equity in the property to clear  all their debts. So they 
got in touch with Social Money.
Social Money offered them a loan. Ive seen the loan agreement  and I think  the cost 
of the loan is clearly  set out. The interest  rate was 1.5% per month.  Mr and Mrs L 
have said the rate jumped  from 1.4% at the last minute  Social Money  said this was 
because they requested  a change from the original six-month  agreement,  to a 
six-month agreement with an option for a further  six. As, it says, having this option 
risked tying up the loan monies  for longer it came at a higher interest rate. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Social  Money to change the cost of the loan when the 
underlying terms changed.  And I think it was clear what interest  rate Mr and Mrs L 
were actually agreeing  to  having had legal advice  when they signed the 
agreement.
Mr and Mrs L borrowed around £121,000, though only received £100,000. The other 
£21,000 was made  up of around £11,000  in interest and £10,000  in various fees.  I 
can understand why Mr and Mrs L consider this to be high. But in my experience the 
interest rate charged wasnt unusual for a bridging loan. Bridging loans are a 
specialist form of lending.  Because theyre both short term and, often, for borrowers 
facing some immediate  difficulty that needs  to be bridged, theyre  more  expensive 
than a regular  mortgage or secured loan.
Its also not unusual  for there to be fees associated with the loan  including  legal 
fees and the cost of a valuation, but also administration  fees charged  by the lender. 
The fees Social Money charged were clearly  set out in the agreement and I dont 
think they were excessive to the point of unfairness.
Ref: DRN08654684Mr and Mrs L say that the property was over-valued, and the surveyor  was negligent,  
and as a result they ended up borrowing too much  and Social  Money took too much 
of their equity. They  say that Social Money  has an indemnity from the surveyor,  and it 
should rely on that to sue the surveyor to recover some of their losses.  Theyve relied 
on a House of Lords  case their solicitor told them was relevant.
Ive looked at the valuation, and the circumstances  surrounding it. I havent  seen any 
evidence that the surveyor was negligent.  The valuation  was in line with Mr and Mrs 
Ls own valuation of the property and the asking price they were selling it for at the 
time. I dont think the case law Mr and Mrs L have referred to is relevant  here, since  
in this case Mr and Mrs L werent buying the property, and didnt rely on the valuation 
 they relied on their own one, for the same amount. And while Social  Money has an 
indemnity from its surveyor, the surveyor was instructed to advise Social  Money and 
its lenders on whether  the property was good security for the loan. The indemnity 
was for the benefit of Social  Money  and its lenders,  not Mr and Mrs L. The surveyor  
wasnt advising, or instructed on behalf of, Mr and Mrs L. So I dont think I can fairly 
say that Social  Money should have  taken legal action against  the surveyor on their 
behalf relying on the indemnity.
When Mr and Mrs L went into the loan,  they had, in reality, few options  open to them. 
They chose to take the bridging loan, and I think they did so knowing how it worked, 
but confident they would be able to repay it by selling the property.
However, Mr L did discuss with Social Money  what would happen if they werent able 
to sell the property  by the end of the six-month  term. After some discussion,  it was 
agreed that there would  be a six month agreement with an option  to extend for six 
months  and the interest rate was increased  from 1.4% to 1.5%  to reflect  what  
Social Money considered the extra risk to its lenders  it told Mr L in an email  that the 
lenders were  effectively  treating the loan as a 12 month loan because of that option.
When the initial six-month term came  towards  its end, Mr Ls fears were justified. 
They hadnt  sold the property and so couldnt  repay the loan. Social Money  offered 
them a new loan to replace the previous one. Further fees were charged, interest  
added for the next six months, and a new loan agreement was created.
Ive looked at the first facility agreement. Ive noted that the interest  rate is 1.5%, not 
1.4% - but the term is for six months only and theres no mention  of an option  to 
extend. And, in fact, it wasnt extended; a second,  new and separate  loan agreement  
was created.
This doesnt seem to me to reflect what  was agreed  in the pre-contractual 
discussions. Mr L specifically wanted  the option  to extend, and Social Money  agreed  
they could have that, in return for an increase in the interest rate. The increase was 
added to the loan agreement, but not the option  to extend.
Given what was discussed,  I think  bearing in mind whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances, and bearing in mind that the interest rate increase did take effect  
 that Social Money should fairly have given Mr and Mrs L an extension to the initial 
loan agreement, not a wholly  new agreement,  when  the first six months  expired.  If 
that had happened,  they would still have  had to pay the 1.5% interest that was rolled  
up into the second loan (albeit  charged on the extended first loan rather than on the 
Ref: DRN08654685second), but they wouldnt have had to pay the various fees associated  with setting it 
up.
I therefore think that, acting fairly, Social  Money should refund the set up fees  but 
not the interest  it charged as a result of entering  into the second agreement. That 
means that the fees shouldnt have  been  added to the second agreement, or had 
interest charged on them. And in turn it means  that the starting  balances  of the third 
and fourth  agreements, and thus the interest  charged  on them, would  also have been 
lower. All this additional interest should  also be refunded.
However, I dont think that Social  Money did anything wrong, based on what  was 
known at the time, in entering into the third and fourth agreements. Mr and Mrs L 
wanted the extensions.  Their plan was still to sell their property. The property  was 
still on the market  and theyd reduced  the price.  That it didnt in fact sell during the life 
of those agreements  wasnt known, and couldnt have been known, at the time.  
The alternative to entering  into the third and fourth agreements was to treat the 
second loan as being in default, or to repossess the property. Treating the loan as in 
default would have been more expensive for Mr and Mrs L, as the default fees and 
interest would  have been more than they were charged for entering  the new 
agreements. And I think it was reasonable to allow more time for the property  to sell, 
bearing in mind market  conditions at the time.
Its now known, with hindsight, that the property didnt in fact sell, and Mr and Mrs L 
might have been left better off if Social  Money  had repossessed at the end of the 
second agreement. However,  that couldnt  have been known at the time. There was 
still a realistic prospect  of achieving a sale. Repossession should,  acting  fairly,  be a 
last resort. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs L to be given  that extra 
time to try to sell, even if they later turned out not to have been able to.
Finally, I think  it was clear by the end of the second year  the end of the fourth 
agreement  that things needed to be brought to an end. Mr and Mrs L hadnt sold 
the property. The asking price was falling,  and the loan balance  rising. As has in fact 
happened, it was a real risk that they wouldnt be left with enough equity to buy 
somewhere else. So I dont think it was unreasonable  that Social Money wasnt  
prepared to allow things  to continue, and appointed receivers.
Unfortunately, at this point  Social Money  gave Mr and Mrs L an incorrect redemption 
figure  it was based on the figure at the end of the third agreement, not at the end of 
the fourth,  and so was underestimated by around £30,000. It wasnt for several 
months, when the property finally sold,  that Mr and Mrs L were  given an updated 
correct redemption figure.
Mr and Mrs L say they made  decisions based  on this figure  that caused them 
financial loss. They believed theyd have  enough equity left to buy another  property,  
so they removed some of the fixtures from their property and put them  into storage. 
They also stored rather than sold the propertys contents.
Its most  unfortunate that Mr and Mrs L were  given an incorrect balance at the end of 
the fourth  loan. Social Money  says they should have realised it was wrong, and 
should have worked out the right figure  themselves. But I dont agree with that. I think  
Mr and Mrs L were  entitled to rely on their lender quoting accurate and up to date 
Ref: DRN08654686figures for the outstanding  balance  of the loan.  I think  discovering, months later,  that 
this figure  was higher than they were expecting caused them considerable upset. I 
think Social Money should pay them  £350  compensation  to reflect  this upset.
However, I dont think it was the cause of the financial loss Mr and Mrs L say they 
experienced. The figure they were given  was the outstanding  balance  at the end of 
the fourth  loan. The property  still hadnt sold by then and was taken into receivership.  
It still wasnt clear  when  it would sell  with interest being  charged  in the meantime  
or for how much it would  sell. So I dont think Mr and Mrs L could reasonably  have 
relied on this figure in predicting how much equity  they would have left by the time 
the property did sell. 
In conclusion, I do have  much sympathy with Mr and Mrs L and the position theyve 
ended up in. Their  business collapsed leaving them with debts; they felt they needed 
to sell their house to clear  the debts but couldnt  do so, and took out a temporary loan 
to tide them  over. Unfortunately, because the house took much longer to sell than 
they were expecting, that loan ended  up being  much more expensive  than theyd  
bargained for. I think Mr and Mrs L have been  most unfortunate, and I realise my 
words of sympathy will be of little comfort to them. But, other than where Ive 
identified above,  I dont think Social Money  treated them unfairly. Both Mr and Mrs L 
and Social Money  made decisions which, with hindsight, made things worse for them 
 but hindsight isnt a factor in deciding what could reasonably have been known at 
the time.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs L said they understood my 
position and why Id reached the conclusions I had. They asked why I had only asked for the 
second set of fees, and not the third and fourth,  to be refunded. 
Social Money said it agreed with much of what Id said  but not all. It said:
On each occasion the loan was varied by extending the term for a further  six months 
 it didnt enter new agreements, but supplemental agreements varying the existing 
agreement each  time.
On each occasion Mr and Mrs L agreed  to, and signed to indicate agreement  with, 
the terms of each supplemental agreement, including the fees charged. Mr L had a 
specific discussion with Social  Money  before agreeing to the first supplementary 
agreement in which the 4% extension fee was agreed.
Each supplemental agreement involved Social Money in up-front costs, and it would 
be unfair to penalise it by saying  they couldnt  be recovered.
Its not correct to say that an option  to extend was agreed  to be added  in, in return for 
the interest rate increasing to 1.5%.  Mr L was aware  of and agreed to a rate of 1.5% 
before the loan agreement was signed.
Mr and Mrs L always knew they would  have to pay fees for any extension.
I should apply  the same  logic and rationale I have applied to the third and fourth 
agreements  that Mr and Mrs L wanted  the extensions and agreed  the fees as the 
price of doing so  to the second. Social Money  has done nothing  wrong  in charging 
the fees it did.
It would  set a dangerous and chaotic precedent if I were to say a lender couldnt  
recover fees a borrower had agreed  to in writing.
In fact, Social Money could have charged more in fees  it could have charged the 
default fee and default interest  but instead it agreed repeated extensions to try and 
assist Mr and Mrs L.
Ref: DRN08654687If anything, Social Money should  be applauded  as at each stage it made  fair 
decisions based on what was, at that time, in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests.  It has 
sympathy for how things  turned  out, but that couldnt have been foreseen  at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Social Money  says each further  six months was a supplemental agreement varying 
the existing agreement rather than a new loan.  But I also note that in its final response to 
Mr L, it said
following the grant of each Supplemental  Agreement, new lenders are lending  
money to repay old ones,  thereby  incurring additional fees and costs (which every  
lender is entitled  to charge) when a new loan is taken out. In essence,  each  
Supplemental Agreement  should be viewed as another loan from another 
(internal) lender. (my emphasis)
Social Money has since said that these costs are the upfront costs to the lenders of agreeing 
to a further period of lending.
But in the pre-contractual  discussions, Social Money told Mr L that by agreeing  to his 
request for an option for a six month  extension  to the original loan, the lenders were  treating 
it as a twelve month loan not a six month loan  and that was why the price had to be higher, 
with the interest  rate increasing from 1.4%  to 1.5%.  Mr and Mrs L did agree to a 1.5% rate  
but that was increased from 1.4%  after, and as a consequence of, Mr Ls request for an 
option to extend.
Theres an inconsistency here, to my mind.  Either the first supplemental agreement after the 
first six months should be viewed as another loan from another lender who is entitled to 
charge fees reflecting the costs of agreeing new lending. Or its the exercise of a pre-agreed  
option to extend which made the original  lender  view it as a twelve-month loan, the cost of 
which was already priced into the original agreement.  It cant be both. And if there are costs 
of finding another internal  lender and costs of them agreeing to another loan, then there  was 
no need for the original lender to have priced  a longer term into the interest rate charged 
from the beginning. 
So while I accept that Mr and Mrs L were aware of what Social Money proposed  to charge  at 
the first extension point,  and signed to agree to those costs at that time, I think at that point 
they had very little choice since if they didnt  it was made clear  to them theyd  be charged as 
being in default and face repossession. 
And I dont  think those costs reflect what Social Money agreed to, and which were the basis  
on which the loan was originally taken out. I remain of the view that its not fair and 
reasonable for Social Money to have charged both the higher interest  rate that resulted from 
the lender treating it as a twelve-month loan, and the extra costs that resulted from another  
lender treating it as a second six-month loan. I think its fair in all the circumstances  that the 
costs of the first extension, and interest  charged  on them, should be refunded  to 
Mr and Mrs L.
Ref: DRN08654688However, I do think the costs of the third and fourth  agreements are fair, since they werent 
priced into the original  loan agreement,  and it was  at the time, for the reasons Ive 
explained  the fair and reasonable thing to do to give Mr and Mrs L more time to sell their 
property.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Social 
Money Ltd to pay to Mr and Mrs L:
The set-up fees and costs (but not the interest) of the first supplementary  agreement;
All interest charged  on those fees and costs across the second, third and fourth 
six-month periods, and following the end of the fourth six-month period,  up to the 
date the loan was finally redeemed by the sale of the property.
To that refund figure, Social Money Ltd should add simple annual  interest  of 8% running 
from the date of loan redemption  to the date it makes  the payment to Mr and Mrs L. 
Finally, Social Money Ltd should pay Mr and Mrs L £350 compensation  and if it doesnt  do 
so within  28 days of the day we tell it Mr and Mrs L have accepted  my final decision (if they 
do) it should  add simple  annual interest of 8% running from the 29th day to date of payment.
If Social Money considers it should deduct income  tax from the interest element  of my award  
it may do so, but should give Mr and Mrs L the necessary confirmation, if they ask for it, so 
they can re-claim the tax from HMRC  if theyre entitled to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0865468