K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs L says National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
The PPI wasnt sold alongside a mortgage  taken out with NatWest   but it was taken out 
independently to a mortgage  Mrs L had with another lender. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
Mrs L initially said she didnt know she was sold PPI, but that she did have mortgage 
protection with NatWest.  She subsequently said that she only had the one PPI policy to 
protect her mortgage and it was with NatWest. So because of that I think  she is complaining 
about a PPI policy she does remember being  sold to her.  
NatWest doesnt  have any paperwork from the sale. This is understandable given how long 
ago the sale took place.  But as NatWest sold Mrs L the PPI policy,  and didnt provide her 
with the mortgage lending, I think it most likely made  it clear  that Mrs L didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. Especially as she made a claim on the policy some  time 
after it was in place   so I dont think shes lost out. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs L and her representatives have said - including  what 
theyve said about  having a payment holiday on the mortgage which  may have negated  the 
need for PPI. But Mrs L made a successful claim at this time, and so she benefited from the 
policy. And it was ultimately  her choice to take out a payment holiday  meaning that she 
likely used the funds  from her claim for other  living expenses. So these  points dont change  
my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN01352002I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0135200