K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1992 Ms A took out a mortgage  and at the same time she also took out PPI designed to 
protect her mortgage payments in the event she couldnt work because  of accident, sickness 
or unemployment. Nationwide cannot  say how the sale was conducted  Ms A says it was 
done in a meeting. And I think  this is most  likely how things happened  given a branch 
meeting was the most likely sales channel at the time.
The policy cost around £16 a month and its benefit equalled Ms As monthly  mortgage  
payment. The benefit  period was up to 24 months  upon a successful claim.
In 1998 Ms A amended  the policy so that it only provided her with unemployment cover and 
she chose the monthly  benefit level - £150  for the mortgage and an additional £50 of cover.
Ms As mortgage account closed in 2001.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said in Ms As case  PPI was a condition  of 
taking out a mortgage with Nationwide because of the high percentage of borrowing 
compared to the value  of the property she was purchasing. And there was nothing about the 
policy which  meant it wasnt  right for her given her circumstances at the time.
Ms A, through her representative, disagrees. And in doing so it has repeated the same  
arguments it initially made - including the point that Ms A wasnt  given a choice about PPI.
The complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms A has complained that she was told she had to have PPI to get the mortgage. And as 
the adjudicator  explained, this was in fact the case. Ms A asked to borrow  more than 
95% of the value  of the property  she wished to purchase. And in 1992 it was 
Nationwides policy that for mortgages greater than 95% loan to value it was a 
requirement of the lending  that PPI had to be taken out.
Nationwide no longer holds copies of Ms As mortgage paperwork and this isnt 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place and how long the mortgage account  
has been closed   businesses arent obliged to keep records  indefinitely.  
Ref: DRN07905782But it has provided an example of a mortgage application it says  and which I accept on 
the balance of probabilities  Ms A would have likely seen and completed.  Looking at 
this I think it would have  been clear to Ms A that PPI was compulsory if she wanted  the 
mortgage she was asking for. Im also mindful  that Nationwide  would have likely set out 
the conditions  of borrowing  including that PPI was compulsory - in Ms As mortgage 
offer letter.
Overall Im satisfied PPI was compulsory  in Ms As case and that Nationwide made  this 
clear to her at the time. So if Ms A didnt  want PPI she couldve chosen not to take out 
the mortgage and PPI with Nationwide and sought borrowing elsewhere with a different 
lender.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms A  Ive not seen enough evidence to fairly 
and reasonably conclude this - so it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Ms A got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Given the lack of evidence in this case its possible the information  Nationwide  gave Ms 
A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive already said it was a 
requirement of the lending  and that Ms A was reasonably aware of this. And based  on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time I think  it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong  it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the key 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and her existing means werent so significant  that 
she wouldnt have benefitted from the cover. It wouldve paid out alongside her sick pay 
and up to the time the policy was amended it wouldve paid out for up to 24mths.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover and the mortgage. 
Overall this means that Nationwide  doesnt need to give back anything  Ms A paid for the 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint, so I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0790578