K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his boiler  insurance  policy  with 
British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
On 11 September  2017 Mr G reported  a claim to British  Gas as his boiler  was leaking. 
British Gas said it would come out the next day but apparently the engineer failed to arrive 
and the appointment was rearranged for 15 September 2017. 
The engineer found the leak but said the boiler  needed to be replaced. He told Mr G that he 
had isolated the leak (to stop it continuing) and turned the boiler  off. The boiler was not used 
while Mr G set about organising a replacement but then nine days later, before it was 
replaced, Mr G awoke  to find water was pouring  through his kitchen ceiling from the boiler 
above. 
Mr G called British Gas out again  and a second engineer  attended. The engineer drained the 
system down completely  and said this should have been done  on the previous attendance. 
 
Mr G is very unhappy with this. He says if the system had been drained down on the first 
attendance the second leak would not have  happened. The second  leak caused significant  
damage to his kitchen.  He had to make a claim under his home  insurance  policy  for repairs 
to the kitchen ceiling and redecoration work.  While his home insurer  covered the cost of the 
work (and apparently recouped half of it from British Gas) Mr G had to pay an excess of 
£350, which he has asked  British Gas to reimburse.  
British Gas accepted that the boiler  and heating system should have been drained  
completely at the first attendance and that if this had been done,  the second  leak would not 
have happened  but doesnt accept that the damage is all as a result of this. However,  it  
closed Mr Gs complaint, as it said it had been  unable to discuss it with Mr G. When his 
complaint was referred here, British  Gas offered him £100 compensation. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She recommended that it be upheld,  as she 
thought it was unlikely Mr G would have had to make the home  insurance  claim if British Gas 
had drained the heating  system properly on the first attendance. The adjudicator therefore 
recommended that British  Gas pay Mr G £200  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim and reimburse  the £350 excess. 
British Gas agreed to increase the compensation to £200 but does not agree to  reimburse  
the excess payment,  as it says Mr G would have had to make the home  insurance  claim 
anyway. British Gas has made a number of submissions which I have summarised  below:  
there would  have been damage to the ceiling as a result of the first leak anyway and 
so a home insurance claim  was inevitable. Its engineer caused secondary  damage 
but there was damage already.
In law it would only be liable  for a contribution,  typically ruled at 50% and nothing
towards the excess, as agreed we have paid the 50% contribution towards the 
repairs to Mr Gs home insurer.  The reason for this is that unless the customer  takes 
photos of the damage after the first and second leak to show  a Judge that the 
damage got much worse  from the second  leak they rule that there is no way to 
determine what leak caused what damage, so therefore rule each party pays 50%.
Ref: DRN03723262There are no photos of the damage done. 
Having accepted initially that it did cause  the second leak, British Gas later said that 
the second leak was in a different  place and therefore unrelated  to the first leak. It 
also said there could  also have been  a collection of water in the ceiling  void from the 
first leak that came  through the ceiling after a leak. However, it later confirmed that it 
did accept it was responsible for the second  leak.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gass engineers  notes from the attendance on 15 September  2017 say there was a 
pinhole leak on cylinder store parts obsolete drained down - unable  to carry out ASV leaking  
part obsolete. The next attendance on 24 September 2017 was for drained  heating circuit 
and boiler inoperable - water  through ceiling customer having new app.
British Gas accepted from the outset that it caused the second leak,  as it should have 
drained the entire system  down  on the first attendance. There was one late suggestion that it 
might not have been responsible after all but this appears to have been retracted. Both call 
outs were in relation to water  leaking  from the boiler.  For the avoidance of doubt, I am 
satisfied that British Gas was responsible  for the second leak.  
British Gas also says that without photographic  evidence of the ceiling before and after the 
first leak,  it would never be liable for more than a 50% contribution  towards the cost of 
repairs and it would  not be liable for any part of Mr Gs excess,  if he were to pursue a court 
claim against it. I do not agree that the legal position is quite as British  Gas has averred. Any 
such civil case would be determined by the court on the balance of probabilities  and so, 
while photographic evidence would greatly  assist, other evidence can also be considered  
when determining if the second  leak was the cause at all, or in part, of the damage done.  
However, even British Gas is right about the legal position, my remit is to consider the 
outcome that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. While I have to 
have regard to the law in my considerations, this means that if applying the legal position 
would not result in a fair and reasonable outcome, I have the power to come to a different 
outcome. As stated, I do not consider the legal position is exactly as averred by British  Gas. 
Having considered all the information  and evidence in this case,  I am satisfied that it is more  
likely than not that the home insurance claim would not have been necessary but for British 
Gass actions/inaction. 
The evidence available to me is that the leak was minor  when Mr G first reported it. He said 
there was water pooled  in the cupboard beneath  the boiler and some appeared to have 
come through the ceiling. He had put towels down to collect  the water. And British Gass 
notes confirm the leak was from a pinprick hole. British Gass  engineer  that attended on the 
first occasion didnt record any damage to the property or make  any comment  on the amount 
of water leaking. 
 
Ref: DRN03723263When Mr G reported the second  leak, he says water  was pouring  through  the ceiling. British 
Gass notes of the second attendance,  as set out above, record  that water was coming 
through ceiling.  
While not conclusive,  the fact that the first engineer did not comment  on any damage or 
significant flow of water on the first visit suggests  this is because it was relatively minor at 
this stage. This does  also tie in with Mr Gs testimony, which is that the first leak was not so 
significant and the second leak was more extensive,  with water pouring  through the ceiling. 
British Gas also says that there would have been damage to the ceiling as a result of the first 
leak, otherwise Mr G would not have  spotted the water leak in the first place. Mr Gs report of 
the initial leak was that some  water was pooling inside the cupboard and some  water had 
come through the ceiling. 
While water had seeped  through the ceiling, if the amount of water was relatively  small,  it is 
possible that it would have just needed  to be left to dry out, and or needed a coat of paint.  
However, after the second  leak, the ceiling needed to be replastered and repainted.
I am also mindful that British Gas took four days to attend to the first leak and so it was left to 
continue for longer than it should have  been and this delay would also have  contributed to 
any subsequent  damage.   
It seems  to me therefore that the home  insurance  claim was unlikely to have been necessary 
solely as a result of the first leak and if British Gas had attended  to that when it should  have  
done. I therefore agree with the investigator that British Gas should  refund the excess  Mr G 
paid and also pay £200 compensation to reflect the addition distress and inconvenience  
caused to him by the second leak, including further attendance to stop that and the 
redecoration works. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to do the 
following:
reimburse  the £350  excess payment Mr G made, together  with interest at 8% per 
annum from the date Mr G made the payment  to the date of reimbursement; and 
pay Mr G £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling if his claim.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0372326