K821x#15complaint
Mr M is complaining that a car Secure  Trust Bank  Plc (STB) supplied him under a hire 
purchase agreement  isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In January 2017 Mr M entered  into a hire purchase through STB to acquire a car. Mr M said 
that he had a number of issues  with the car within the first six months  that he had it, namely:
CD player and alarm didnt work
Gearbox wasnt working  as well as it should  have
The engine warning  light came  on
In June 2017 the gearbox failed and Mr M complained to STB that the car had gone  in to be 
repaired for a fourth time and he said he wanted to reject the car. The repairs  were being 
done under  the cars warranty. But STB said that he couldnt do so because  hed agreed to 
have the gearbox  repaired and it said that he had to give the dealership doing the repairs  
time to complete  them.  Mr M said he was unhappy with how long the repairs were taking. 
But STB said that repairs do take time to complete.
In July 2017 the dealership returned  the car to Mr M. It said that it had replaced  the clutch  
and exhaust glow plug, done some  repairs to the gearbox and did a software  update. It then 
returned the car to him. However, Mr M complained that the fault was still there and he said 
it was worse than it was before. The car went back to the dealership  who said that the issue 
was down to faulty software. It fixed this issue and returned the car to Mr M. Mr M also 
received £350  in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused him.
In October  2017 Mr M got into financial difficulties and fell into arrears on his repayments. In 
November 2017  he called  STB and offered to pay it a further £50 a week  to clear the 
arrears. He says it was agreed  the additional payments would start from 17 November 2017. 
But STB recorded that the repayments  would start on 10 November 2017. STB says that he 
missed the first repayment so entered a default  against him. Mr M complained and said that 
STB had entered the incorrect start date for this agreement and asked it to remove the 
default.
STB reviewed the matter  but it wasnt able to listen to the telephone call where  the 
agreement to clear the arrears was discussed. And it said its internal records werent  clear,  
so it agreed to remove the default.
In December 2017 Mr M said that he was starting to have a few issues with the gearbox  
again, and in January 2018 the gearbox failed.  STB arranged for an independent company 
to do an inspection of the car. The inspector said that he thought the issue was down to a 
failed speed sensor.  And he said that these  will fail suddenly and he didnt think  the fault was 
present or developing at the point  of sale.
Mr M didnt  agree with the inspector and he said a number of other garages thought the 
issue was down to a failure of the mechatronic  unit. He also said that the dealership initially 
told the warranty provider  that the control unit needed to be replaced alongside the clutch. 
Ref: DRN09714832And he says he wouldnt  be having the issues he was now having if the control  unit had 
been replaced. So he thinks the issue is down  to the repair not being done properly initially.
STB doesnt think Mr M could reject  the car because it said that Mr M had been  able to drive 
around 7,000 miles from the last repair until the gearbox failed  again.  And, whether the fault 
was related to the speed sensor or the mechatronic  unit, it didnt think he could have driven 
the number of miles he did if the fault was present at the point of sale or down to a poor 
initial repair.  Mr M didnt agree, so asked  this service to step in.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that Mr M had continually had issues with 
the gearbox when  he first got it and she could  see that the dealership had said that the 
control unit needed replacing in July 2017.  She also didnt think  7,000 miles was a significant 
number of miles and she thought  Mr M was entitled  to expect to do more  miles following the 
repair than he was able to do so. Given this, she thought  Mr M should be able to reject the 
car and end the agreement with nothing further  to pay. She also thought STB should refund 
half the monthly payments he made in November and December 2017,  plus 8% simple  
interest and waive  any charges due from January 2018.
Mr M accepted the investigators opinion, but STB didnt agree. It said it paid for an 
independent inspection of the car and it thought it was entitled  to rely on the inspectors 
findings. It said the inspector had said that the fault wasnt related to the previous repair and 
was down to the number  of miles Mr M had driven  in the car. It said the inspector had said 
that the failure would  have been sudden  i.e. wouldnt  have been  slowly deteriorating. It 
thought the failure was down to the age and mileage of the car. So it didnt think  Mr M was 
able to reject  the car on the basis of this. And it asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
Mr M acquired the car under a hire purchase  agreement. Legislation  in this case  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider,  STB is responsible  for 
the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres  no dispute that theres  a 
fault with the car, but the issue is whether it was present at the time of sale, and whether that 
fault makes the car of unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied.
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. In this case,  Mr M paid £9,495  
for the car. The car was around six and a half years old and had travelled 68,000 miles at 
the point of supply. 
It seems  that Mr M had a number of issues with the car in the first six months  after he 
received it. In addition  to the issues hes had with the gearbox,  he says he had to get the 
cars alarm and radio repaired and the engine warning light had come  on. And he says he 
had to take the car in for repairs four times during  this time. Finally  the car had a 
Ref: DRN09714833replacement clutch installed, some repairs done  to the gearbox  and a software update  
carried out.
Mr Ms car had driven 68,000 by the time he acquired it, which  is not an insignificant amount 
of mileage. So I think Mr M would have  had to expect some wear  and tear to the car. 
However, even with the cars mileage at the point of sale, I dont think a reasonable person 
would have expected to have had to do the number of repairs   especially in respect  to the 
gearbox  that Mr M had to do so soon after he acquired the car. And, given the faults 
appeared within a relatively short period of time after receiving the car, I think its likely that 
they were present or developing  at the point of sale. So I dont think  the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
The CRA says that Mr M is entitled  to ask STB to repair  the car. And I can see that Mr M did 
agree to all the repairs that were carried out at the time.  I note that he did complain to STB 
about how long the repairs were taking  during  the repair to the gearbox and clutch.  But STB 
said that, given  Mr M had agreed  to the repair, he had to allow the repairs  to be completed 
and it didnt think the repairs were taking an unreasonable length of time.  And I agree with 
that.
I can also see that Mr M was given £350 for the distress and inconvenience  the repairs  
caused him and he was given a courtesy car throughout  this time  although I acknowledge 
it wasnt as big a car as the one Mr M had acquired  from STB.  I think  this was fair 
compensation for this.
Following the repair  in July 2018, Mr M drove  a further 7,000  (approximately) miles but then 
the gearbox failed  again.  Mr M says that hes unable to use the car and he wants  to reject it. 
STB doesnt think hes allowed to. 
Theres a dispute  about what is causing the latest  issue with the gearbox.  STB has arranged  
for an independent inspection  of the car and the inspector thinks the issue  is most likely 
down to a broken speed sensor.  He said that these  sensors dont deteriorate over time and 
would have failed  suddenly and unexpectedly. So the inspector  didnt  think  this fault would 
have been present or developing at the point of sale or linked to the previous repairs.
Mr M says that hes spoken  to a number of garages  who think  that the fault is likely to be 
linked to a fault with the mechatronic unit. I note STB referred  Mr Ms comments  in this 
respect back to the independent inspector. The inspector said that he cant rule out that the 
fault is actually  with the mechatronic unit. But he still thought  it was most likely to be with the 
speed sensor. However, STB has commented  that, even if the issue is with the mechatronic 
unit, it would  have also failed suddenly and unexpected  i.e. also not deteriorated in 
performance over time. So it said that this also wouldnt be linked to the previous repair.
Weve recently discussed with the engineer who did the repairs in July 2018 about  what  
repairs were actually done to the gearbox  in July 2018. Hes explained  that he removed,  
stripped down the gearbox and carried out a repair. And he confirmed that it was the same 
gearbox that went back in to the car. He also explained that an engineer  from the 
manufacturer came to repair  the software. He says that it took two attempts to repair  it.
It seems  that there has been a recurring  issue with this gearbox throughout the time Mr Ms 
had the car. And it seems  to me that hes had the same  issues  throughout with Mr M 
Ref: DRN09714834struggling to get the car in gear.  So I think its likely that theres an underlying fault with the 
cars gearbox that hasnt been  resolved. Im conscious that in July 2017 the dealership told 
the warranty provider  that the control  unit needed  to be replaced  alongside the clutch. But 
the warranty provider  only arranged for the control  unit to be repaired. I think its likely that 
this repair  only temporarily delayed the gearboxs  failure, rather than actually resolved the 
issue. So I think the current issue is related to the original repair. And I dont  think that repair  
fully rectified all the problems or the underlying fault.
I note STB says that the inspector has said that it was a sudden  and unexpected failure and 
its queried why were ignoring this. But Im also conscious that he wasnt able to diagnose 
what the actual  fault is, but said what he thinks it is. And, as I said,  I think theres  an 
underlying fault with the gearbox  that was present or developing at the point of sale. And this 
hasnt been repaired  to a satisfactory  standard.
I think the CRA allows Mr M to now reject  the car and I think  thats the fair and reasonable 
thing to do too. Im conscious that Mr M has not been able to use the car since  January  2018 
so I think STB should refund all of the monthly  payments  Mr M has made since  then.  
I note the investigator  thought that STB should  refund half of the payments that Mr M made  
in November and December 2017.  I can see from STBs internal file notes that Mr M called 
in both November  and December 2017 to say that hes still suffering issues  with the 
gearbox. Hes also told us that he had to buy a temporary car from a family member at that 
time. He also said that he only used  the car STB provided on a small number of occasions 
due to the issues with the gearbox. Im persuaded that what Mr M has told us is likely. So I 
agree with the investigator that STB should  also refund half of the monthly  payments  that 
Mr M made in November and December  2017.
But I note that Mr M was in arrears  on his finance in December 2017. And I think  its fair that 
he has to pay this. However, I think the £350  Mr M received in compensation was fair 
compensation for the issues Mr M had with the car up to July 2018.
As Mr M couldnt use the car hes told us he had to take out a new finance agreement  and 
he couldnt afford to continue making the payments  on his finance agreement with STB after 
February 2018. I think this is directly  linked to the fact that STB supplied  a car thats not of 
satisfactory quality. So I think STB should also remove any adverse markers from his credit  
file resulting from this finance agreement. 
So I think STB should do the following  to put things right:
1.cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay and collect the car at no further cost to 
Mr M;
2.remove any adverse markers  from Mr Ms credit file resulting  from this finance 
agreement ;
3.waive any instalments  or charges applied to the account from January 2018;
4.refund  half of each  payment Mr M made in December and November 2017 *;
5.refund  the payments Mr M made in January and February 2018 *;
6.once STB has calculated the amount due to Mr M it can offset this against the arrears 
that have  accrued  as of 29 December  2017,  in the amount  of £359.58.
Ref: DRN09714835*STB should pay 8% simple interest  per year from the date of each payment to when he 
gets it back. If STB thinks  its required to deduct tax from this interest  payment, it should  
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. And I require 
Secure Trust Bank Plc to compensate Mr M in line with how Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0971483