K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (under  its trading name of Halifax)  is wrongly  
holding him liable for a cash machine withdrawal of £500 that he says he neither made nor 
authorised. 
background
All the events leading  to Mr Ss complaint took place on the same  day in January 2018. In 
the morning Mr S checked  his accounts  using  the Halifax mobile app. About an hour later 
£500 was transferred from his savings account to his current  account,  using the app. Mr S 
says he didnt make that transfer. 
Later that morning, a withdrawal of £500 was made  at a cash  machine. Halifax  says Mr Ss 
card and PIN were  used. Mr S acknowledges that he and his wife were  at or near the cash  
machine at the time,  but says that he didnt make the withdrawal. He didnt find out about it 
until he checked his account again later the same  evening. 
Mr S says that he didnt  have his card with him during the day  it was in his wallet at home. 
He speculated  that the withdrawal must have been the result of a technical error, perhaps 
linking his wifes use of her card at about  the same  time as the withdrawal from his account. 
Halifax however said its own records showed  that the withdrawal was made using Mr Ss 
genuine card and correct PIN. Similarly, the earlier transfer was made using Mr Ss mobile 
phone and log-in details. It concluded  that Mr S hadnt been  a victim of fraud, but that the 
transfer and withdrawal had been  made  by him or someone close  to him. 
Mr S didnt accept what Halifax said and referred  the matter  to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered  it. She agreed  with Halifax, however, that Mr S had not been a 
victim of fraud. Mr S didnt accept that and asked that an ombudsman  review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached a 
similar conclusion  to the investigator, and for similar  reasons.
The transfer from Mr Ss savings account was made  using the mobile app installed on his 
phone, with his log-in  details. Mr S has said his phone  wouldnt have been available  to 
anyone else, and neither would his log-in details. Its possible of course that a family 
member might have been able to use his phone, but its extremely unlikely that an unknown 
fraudster could have  gained access to it and the information needed to open the app.   
Mr S says that his card remained at home in a cupboard, and that his wife found  it there  
when he identified the disputed withdrawal. The banks records show, however, that the chip 
in the card was read when the £500  withdrawal was made  as I would expect of a 
withdrawal at a cash machine in the UK. Thats a very clear indication that the genuine card 
was used. So I believe that Mr S is mistaken in saying his card remained at home. It was 
used in a cash  machine  less than a minute  before his wife used the same machine; he 
accepts he was there at the time. The card was then returned home, because Mr S says he 
had it later in the day when he reported  the withdrawal to the bank  although I accept that 
there does  initially  seem to have  been some confusion about its precise location. 
Ref: DRN01209912In conclusion, therefore, I agree with the investigator  that Mr S either made  the withdrawal 
himself or that whoever  did so had his authority to do so. It follows that it wouldnt be fair to 
make Halifax  refund  it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0120991