K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Amtrust Europe  Limited  has declined a claim made  under his legal 
expenses insurance  (LEI)  policy.  All and any references to Amtrust in this decision  include 
its claims handlers. 
background
Mr H took out a residential  property owners  insurance policy  (the policy).  That policy also 
included LEI. 
Mr Hs house (the house) was rented  out to tenants via a management agency. Those 
tenants signed a tenancy agreement in March 2016  with the management  agency  to rent the 
house for six months. When  that agreement expired, in September  2016, they agreed to a 
further tenancy agreement for a term of 12 months.  
In the autumn of 2017, Mr H sought  to make a claim on his LEI policy. This included a claim 
to cover the costs of defending criminal proceedings for failing to comply with an 
improvement notice hed been issued with by the local authority pursuant to the Housing Act 
2004.
Amtrust declined to cover this claim.  It also decided not to offer renewal of the policy,  which  
contained the LEI policy, when it was due to expire in November 2017. Mr H felt Amtrust  had 
acted unfairly so complained to us.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think  Amtrust had done  anything 
wrong. Mr H doesnt agree so his complaint has been passed  to me to look at everything  
afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. Having done so, I dont  uphold  it. I 
know Mr H will be disappointed by this decision. And before  I explain why, I want  to assure 
him that although  I havent addressed each point hes made in my decision, I have taken on 
board all of the information hes given us when deciding this complaint. 
defending claim  brought  by the local authority:
The LEI policy does cover claims to defend  Mr Hs rights if an event arising from letting the 
buildings leads to you being prosecuted in a civil court .
By the time Mr H made a claim on his policy criminal  proceedings had been brought against 
him by the local authority for failure to comply with an improvement notice and a court  date 
was set.
Amtrust says the reason  why criminal  proceedings were brought  by Mr H wasnt  because  of 
an event arising  from letting the property; it was due to his failure  to comply with his legal 
obligations when  renting  out the house.  
The policy doesnt  define what constitutes  an event. But I dont think  I need to make  a 
finding on that issue. Thats because Amtrust has also declined  to cover his defence  of 
Ref: DRN07599322criminal proceedings  because hed failed to comply with certain terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
The policy says failure to comply with terms and conditions  may invalidate a claim  and, 
relevant to this complaint, Mr H should take all reasonable care to observe and comply with 
statutory and local authority laws, obligations  and requirements and maintain the property 
insured used in connection with the business  in an efficient and safe working order 
I dont think Amtrust has acted unreasonably by applying that condition to invalidate  the 
claim Mr H made on the policy to cover the costs of him being  legally represented  in defence  
of criminal proceedings brought against him by the local authority. 
Mr H accepts that when  the people who ended  up renting the house first made  enquiries,  it 
did require some work doing to it  thats  why the house wasnt  officially  being advertised  to 
let at the time. But he says it was habitable and the gas and electrics  had been  checked. 
Ive taken into account what Mr H says about allowing the house to be rented based on 
assurances given  at the outset from the people  who rented the house that they would carry 
out some  repair  work in return  for a reduction  in rent, and on the basis  that Mr H pay for 
materials. 
Ive also taken on board what he says happened after the initial improvement notice had 
been issued by the local authority in December 2016; that he did try to arrange  for certain  
works to be carried out so that some of the improvements could be promptly made. And that 
the people renting the house sabotaged  those efforts in a variety of ways,  and intentionally 
caused further damage to the property.
But it does  look like the house didnt have a sufficient heating  system from the outset and the 
local authority inspection report dated December  2016 makes clear  this was one of the 
issues that it was most concerned about.  
So although  Mr H says he found it difficult to get central heating  installed within  the 
timeframes stipulated by the local authority inspector  and the difficulties  hed faced with the 
people whod rented  the house  Im satisfied Amtrust has fairly and reasonably declined to 
cover the costs of him defending the claim. Thats because he hadnt taken all reasonable 
care to ensure  the house was in a sufficient state  of repair  at the time it was rented  not to 
the extent that Mr H had complied with the necessary legal obligations and requirements  
when renting it out. Nor do I think Amtrust has been unreasonable in its conclusion that it 
wasnt in a safe working order. 
When making this finding, I also note that although Mr H was eventually found guilty of 
failing to comply with the improvement notice,  he says he was fined the minimum amount 
possible. And that this was due to the actions of the people whod rented the house. He also 
says the court didnt award  any costs  to the local authority. But that doesnt mean that 
Amtrust was unreasonable to decline cover at the time it made that decision,  on the grounds 
that it did.
declining to offer renewal  of the policy: 
UKI failed  to invite Mr L to renew the policy  which his LEI formed part of  when it was due 
to renew in November  2017. Ive asked Amtrust to confirm the reasons for this. It says that 
after considering proceedings brought against him by the local authority, it was advised that 
Ref: DRN07599323Mr H had let out the house in a condition that did not comply with legislation.  And that hed 
failed to comply with certain  aspects of the improvement notice issued to him by the local 
authority. It also says Mr H had not complied with the maintenance and safety requirements 
of the policy. And because of those factors it decided not to invite renewal. 
Its not our role to tell Amtrust  what it should take into account  when  deciding  whether to 
invite a renewal of a policy. Thats a commercial decision  for it to make.  But Im satisfied that 
Amtrust hasnt arbitrarily chosen  not to invite renewal of the policy and the reasons given 
arent unreasonable given the circumstances  of what happened. 
other issues:
To be clear, I havent considered the merits of Mr Hs complaint that Amtrust  has unfairly 
declined aspects of his claim for malicious damage under the policy. Thats a separate  
complaint hes brought to us that will be looked into.
Further, Mr H says that the policy was mis-sold to him. I havent looked into the merits of that 
either. I understand  the policy was sold to him by a broker, so he should  direct a complaint  to 
them in the first instance if he remains  unhappy  with the sale. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 9 June 2019.  
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0759932