K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Elite Insurance Company  Limited hasnt progressed claims on his motor  
insurance policy for the repair  of his alloy wheel and cosmetic repairs. He wants a refund of 
his premium so he can get the work  done privately.
background
Mr E made two claims for repairs on his policy. But they werent progressed because  Elite 
had appointed a liquidator and introduced a restricted payment protocol. This has now been  
lifted and Elite is clearing the backlog  of claims in date order.  But Mr E was unhappy with 
this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Elite hadnt 
purposefully delayed the claims. But, as the claims had been  authorised,  he thought  Elite 
could have allowed  Mr E to have the repairs done  elsewhere and then reclaim  the costs.  He 
thought Elite should pay Mr E £100 compensation for not providing this alternative  and also 
deal with the outstanding  claims.
Elite replied that Mr E hadnt asked to pursue  a private repair.  It said it had acted to treat all 
customers fairly and was now working to clear the backlog of claims. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E made his claims  in June and August 2018  and they were accepted by Elite. The 
restricted payment protocol was lifted in October  2018. Mr E said he was then offered a 
repair date for January  2019, which wasnt suitable for him. But he couldnt book an 
alternative before September 2019. Mr E told us that the repairs have now been made. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive looked at the alloy wheel repair and minor cosmetic repair sections  of Mr Es policy. The 
process for having  repairs made  under the policy is clearly set out. Mr E should contact Elite 
who will then authorise the repair and instruct the approved  repairer to contact  Mr E to have  
the repairs made. Under certain conditions where  repairs cant be made then the policy 
allows for the consumer  to have the repairs done privately and then Elite would refund the 
costs up to policy limits. I cant see that Elite provides a timescale for it to approve  and carry 
out the repairs. 
So from what I can see Mr E complied  with the policy  terms and conditions  and the repairs 
were authorised and costed but not progressed due to Elites restricted payment protocol. I 
cant see that Elite has purposely delayed  the claim as Mr E was provided  with a repair date 
for January 2019. But I think its unfair  that Mr E has been  kept waiting so long for his minor 
repairs to be made.  And I think  Elite could have done more to find a solution  for him. 
Ref: DRN06832032Our investigator thought Elite could have allowed Mr E to have the minor repairs made  and 
then later reclaim the costs. Elite said Mr E hadnt  requested this. But this is the redress that 
Mr E requested in his complaint  to us that was then passed to Elite before the repairs were  
made. The policy allows for such arrangements in other circumstances. So I think this is 
something Elite could have considered to prevent further avoidable delays in Mr Es claims. 
I think Elite did cause  Mr E inconvenience  in not providing alternatives for him to have his 
minor repairs  made sooner. The investigator recommended  that it should pay Mr E £100 
compensation for this. I agree as this is what Id require in similar circumstances. As Mr E 
had use of the policy, I dont think it would be fair for Elite to refund his premiums.
Mr E has told us that Elite hasnt responded to a notification of a later repair required. I think  
its for Mr E to firstly  complain to Elite about this. If he remains unhappy with its response, 
then he can bring his complaint to us. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Elite Insurance  Company Limited  to 
pay Mr E £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling  of 
his claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0683203