K821x#15complaint
Mr U has complained that Advancis Limited  (Buddy Loans) irresponsibly provided him with 
an unaffordable  guarantor  loan.  He has said that if Buddy  Loans  had carried  out proper 
checks it would have  seen that he had defaults,  he was in financial difficulty  and that he had 
a gambling addiction. 
background
Buddy Loans  provided Mr U with a guarantor loan in May 2018. The loan was for £3,000 and 
it was due to be repaid  in 24 instalments of around £185. The total amount to be repaid was 
£4,445.99.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Us complaint. She told Buddy  Loans that the checks  it 
carried out before providing Mr U with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate  and if 
such checks had been carried  out it would have  seen that it Mr U wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments.  
So she thought that Buddy Loans shouldnt  have provided Mr U with this loan and upheld  the 
complaint. Buddy Loans disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. So the complaint has now been passed  to me for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
Buddy Loans  provided Mr U with this loan when  it was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. This meant that it was subject  to the FCA rules and regulations.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers like Buddy 
Loans when providing loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible 
lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from the following extracts,  
the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many  
occasions.
Ref: DRN04053122Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
Ref: DRN04053123(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also contains the additional  obligations owed by guarantor  loan providers to 
guarantors when providing a guarantor loan.  The additional requirements in relation to an 
assessment of the guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC 5.2.5R. 
As the guarantor isnt a party to this complaint, I dont think  that its necessary to set out all 
the rules and guidance relating to the additional  obligations  owed  to guarantor in this 
decision. That said I do think  its useful  for me to set out CONC 5.2.6G which  says:
(2)The provision of the guarantee or indemnity  (or both),  and the assessment of the 
guarantor under CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce the obligation  on 
the lender to carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 
5.2.1R or CONC 5.2.2R. Firms are reminded  of the rule in CONC 5.3.4R  that the 
assessment of the borrower must not be based  primarily or solely  on the value  of 
any security provided  by the borrower.
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr Us loan was provided after Section  140 of the Consumer  Credit Act came into force on 6 
April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine that the 
relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
Ref: DRN04053124140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
Ref: DRN04053125(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
other relevant publications  
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised lenders have to adhere to. But the 
rules and guidance represent  a minimum standard for firms. And Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards,  relevant  codes of practice,  and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  
may not be able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
the proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
Ref: DRN04053126Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work  was provided  on page four of the letter.  
The section entitled Additional focus for firms  providing guarantor  lending  said:
As well as the areas of focus above,  we will also prioritise our supervisory work with firms  
that provide guarantor loans in the following  area: 
Payments made by guarantor: 
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed  that many guarantors  make at least  one 
repayment and the proportion of guarantors making payments is growing. We want  to 
understand the root causes for this increase,  and whether firms  are conducting  adequate  
affordability assessments. We are also concerned that guarantors  may not fully understand 
how likely it is that they will be called upon  to make a payment. So, as well as our broad  
portfolio-wide work on relending, we will start a piece of complementary work on guarantor 
lending. This will establish whether  potential guarantors  have  enough information  to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
the FCA Executive  Director of Supervisions (Retail and Authorisations) speech at the Credit 
Summit, London, on 21 March 2019  
The FCAs Executive  Director  of Supervision gave a speech at the Credit  Summit, which  
took place on 21 March 2019,  entitled  What can the consumer credit sector expect from the 
FCA? . 
The speech  reiterated much of what was said in the High Cost Credit  portfolio strategy  letter 
(set out above) issued on 6 March  2019.  And in his speech the Executive Director of 
Supervision said:
Ref: DRN04053127Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of guarantor loans by 
consumers. Balances on guarantor loans are fast approaching £1 billion and these have 
more than doubled since 2016.  
While these products provide an opportunity  for those with thin credit  files - poor or limited 
credit history  - we do have concerns.  Concerns about affordability. Recent work we have  
done in this area showed that many guarantors are making  at least 1 payment and the 
proportion of guarantors  making these payments is growing.
There is also growing anecdotal  evidence that guarantors may not understand how likely it is 
that they will be called upon to make  a payment. Our work will therefore focus on 
affordability and on understanding whether potential guarantors have enough information to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.  
We have already amended certain  rules  to ensure that the protections they provide to 
borrowers also extend to guarantors, for example  rules requiring forbearance, pre-
contractual explanations and fair treatment. In assessing creditworthiness,  we have clarified 
that firms must undertake  a reasonable assessment of the potential for the guarantors 
commitment to have a significant adverse  impact  on their financial  situation.
And if the guarantor is called upon, we have published guidance on our view of what  
constitutes enforcement of the guarantee  under  the CCA  in practice this means  we 
expect firms to provide guarantors with adequate  notice before exercising a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA).
There are also questions  over the level of interest  rates charged on these products 
considering that these  guarantors are deemed to be credit worthy,  we will therefore be 
considering this and the business models  of these firms.
  
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that    
Mr U would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr U wouldve been able to do so?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Buddy Loans  didnt  act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr U and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN04053128Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that Mr U 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  and regulations at the time Buddy Loans lent to Mr U required  it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner.  Buddy Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused 
assessment in addition  to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Buddy Loans  had to think about  whether 
repaying the loan sustainably  would  cause difficulties or adverse consequences  for Mr U. In 
practice this meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr U undue difficulty or adverse  consequences. 
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for Buddy Loans to simply  think  about the likelihood  of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact  of loan repayments  on Mr U. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans  to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr U, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Ref: DRN04053129Were Buddy Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
Buddy Loans  says it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr U. And     
Mr U confirmed he received £1286.16  a month,  had living expenses of £814.01,  and would 
have credit commitments (when  this loan was included) of £301.  Although  the telephone call 
with Buddys representative suggests  that Mr U was making substantially reduced  payments 
to his existing  creditors. 
Taking all of this into account  Mr U would be left with £170.70 once all of his living  costs  and 
credit commitments  were deducted from his income. Buddy Loans also says that it received 
a payslip from Mr U which confirmed his income  and that it carried  out a credit check.  
Ive carefully thought  about what Buddy Loans has said. But simply obtaining information 
from and/or  about  a borrower doesnt,  on its own, mean that a lender  will have carried  out a 
borrower focused assessment of the borrowers ability  to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check Buddy Loans  carried  out showed  that Mr U was at 189% of the credit limits 
on his revolving credit accounts.  The credit  check also showed  that Mr U had defaulted on 
accounts. Indeed, there is a section on the credit search entitled Impaired Credit History. 
And, in this section, there a number of statements with Yes or No responses next to them to 
indicate whether  any of them apply  to Mr U. There are Yes answers to the an impaired credit  
history being detected  and loan accounts  with payments that are, at least, three months  late 
having been found.    
So while Ive seen  what Buddy Loans has said about it complying with CONC 5.2.4G by 
using some of the sources of information  listed, I think  that Buddy Loans  would have been 
aware that Mr U had had previous difficulties with credit. And, in these circumstances, I dont  
think that it enough here as it ought  fairly and reasonably to have taken steps to verify Mr Us 
monthly expenditure. 
I say this while especially  mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules  and guidance  
suggest that the risk of any credit  not being sustainable  directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial situation. 
This was an expensive loan and the credit search carried  out on Mr U showed  she may not 
have been in the healthiest financial position.  
I accept that Buddy Loans might have  been  prepared to accept this credit  risk because the 
existence of Mr Us guarantor might have given it more confidence that the payments would 
be made, But I dont  think  that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, meant  that Mr U 
himself would be able to sustainably make the payments given  what  the credit file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed  
affordability assessment,  without the need for verification,  is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period.  
But, in circumstances   such  as here - where  a customers finances are showing telling 
signs of possible strain and distress, they are expected  to maintain payments for a longer  
period of time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely  that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
Ref: DRN040531210detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order  for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan,  the cost of the credit, what Buddy  Loans 
had seen or ought to have seen in the information  gathered and the potential implications for 
the guarantor, Buddy  Loans  needed  to get a thorough understanding of Mr Us financial 
position in order  to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan 
payments he was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking  Mr U about the details of his income and expenditure, I think that   
Buddy Loans  needed  to verify what it was being told by Mr U, rather  than relying  on what    
Mr U declared  for his monthly expenditure. It could have done this by asking for information 
such as bank statements  or copies of bills. And when it obtained this information it needed to 
properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr U did have enough funds to be able to make the 
payments.
 
As theres  no evidence  that Buddy Loans did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Mr U to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations  
made, I find that it didnt  complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing  Mr U with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to Buddy Loans that Mr U would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before this loan was provided,  
I cant say for sure what  they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely  
than not that a proportionate check would have  told Buddy Loans that Mr U wouldve been  
unable to sustainably  repay this loan.  
Mr U has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan.  Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information  Mr U has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Buddy Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Buddy Loans showing what  this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place  considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Us financial  circumstances were more  likely than not 
to have been at the time.
As Ive already  explained, Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mr U could  
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were  
technically affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make  their 
payments, it follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower  wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Mr U has provided in light of all of this. 
Ref: DRN040531211The information Ive been provided  with shows Mr U was making  token payments of £1 a 
month to his existing creditors. In my view, this was indicative of someone who was unable 
to repay  or manage their existing credit commitments, let alone be able to take on new ones. 
Indeed I have to question  the reasonableness of Buddy Loans accepting  this level of risk  in 
terms of lending a further substantial amount to an individual who was making  token 
payments to existing creditors. I can only assume  that it accepted this risk because  it knew  
that it would  be able to pursue the guarantor for payments. 
Be that as it may, as Ive already explained,  the existence of the guarantee doesnt  mean  
that it is fair and reasonable to lend to a prospective borrower that is clearly  unable to repay.  
And in this case, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would more likely  
than not have shown that Mr U would  not have been  able to repay this loans  especially as 
I can also see that he was gambling  large sums  of money. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr U would not have been able to make  the 
loan repayments  to this loan without  borrowing further and/or  suffering undue difficulty. And, 
in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted Buddy Loans to the fact that Mr U would not be able to sustainably  
make the repayments  to this loan. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr U in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr U in 
some other way.  
So I find that Buddy Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably  towards Mr U in some other 
way.  
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
eight of this decision, I find that:
Buddy Loans didnt  complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mr U to satisfy 
itself that he was able to repay  his loan;  
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Mr U 
was unable  to sustainably make the repayments  for this loan;
Buddy Loans didnt  also act unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr U in some  other  
way.
The above  findings leave me concluding that Buddy  Loans unfairly and unreasonably 
provided Mr U with a guarantor loan in May 2018.
Did Mr U lose out as a result of Buddy Loans unfairly and unreasonably  providing him with 
his guarantor loan?
Ref: DRN040531212I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Us indebtedness as it led to him 
being provided with expensive credit  for a significant  sum.  This loan was expensive and the 
monthly payment,  which also included  interest and charges, took up a significant proportion 
of Mr Us income at a time where  he was already  struggling to make ends meet. So I find 
that Mr U did suffer  adverse consequences and as a result  lost out because Buddy Loans  
unfairly provided him with this loan.
fair compensation  what  Buddy Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr U
Ive carefully thought  about what Buddy Loans should do to put things right in this case.  
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean Buddy Loans 
putting Mr U in the position  hed now be in if she hadnt been  given this loan.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr U 
was given the loan in question and he used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Mr U back in the position 
she would  be in if she hadnt been  given  this loan in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Buddy Loans  to put things right in 
the following  way.
interest and charges on the loans
As Ive explained, Buddy  Loans  lending to Mr U, in these circumstances, left him in a 
position where his debt was increasing. And Mr U kept having to find additional funds to pay 
the monthly payments on his Buddy Loans  loan. In reality its the interest and on this loan 
that led to Mr Us indebtedness increasing and his financial position worsening.  
So to start with Buddy Loans should refund any interest and charges that has Mr U paid on 
this loan. It should do this by removing  all of the interest applied to the loan from the outset. 
The payments Mr U has made should  then be deducted from the new starting balance of 
£3000. If and when the payments  Mr U has already made to this loan are enough to have 
cleared the amount he was lent anything  over this amount  should  be treated as an 
overpayment. These  overpayments, should there  be any, should be refunded to Mr U.  
Mr U will also have  lost the use of the funds he will have  used to make any overpayments 
that Buddy Loans need to refund  to him. As Mr U will have lost the use of these funds, I think 
he should be compensated  if she made any interest  payments. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on overpayments made  (from the date they 
were made),  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN040531213Mr Us credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
So I think that Buddy Loans should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Us 
credit file as a result of the interest  and charges on this loan, as Mr U wasnt  in a position to 
sustainably repay  this loan and he shouldnt  have had to pay those interest  and charges in 
the first place.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of         
Mr Us complaint for Buddy Loans to put things  right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.  The 
payments Mr U has made should be deducted  from the new starting  balance.  Buddy 
Loans should treat any payments made  once the new starting  balance  has been 
cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should  be refunded to Mr U;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
made by Mr U to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Us credit  file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans  to take off tax from this interest.  Buddy 
Loans must give Mr U a certificate  showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Us complaint. Advancis  Limited  should  put 
things right for Mr U in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0405312