K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-operative Bank)  did not respond to two 
letters he sent to them asking for his credit card to be re-issued. Mr S also feels  
Co-operative Bank led him to believe he could  have the card re-issued to him by sending  
him annual  statements.
background
Mr S had a charity branded credit card with the Co-operative bank which he used until the 
card was not re-issued  in 2011. Co-operative Bank continued to send Mr S annual 
statements as the account had a positive balance. In 2017  Co-operative Bank wrote to Mr S 
explaining that they were closing al their charity branded credit card accounts and no longer  
offering this product.
In early 2018 Mr S wrote to Co-operative Bank twice enquiring into having his credit card 
re-issued. 
Having had no response to his letters Mr S wrote a third letter  to Co-operative Banks 
headquarters complaining  that they had not responded to his first two letters.
In response to Mr S complaint Co-operative Bank said that they did not receive the first two 
letters sent to them. They said that they were unable to re-issue  the credit card as the 
account had been closed  for some years. Co-operative Bank  said that they were  obliged to 
send statements to Mr S as there was a positive balance on the account.  So, Mr S could 
transfer this money  out if he wished. Mr S provided Co-operative Bank with two proof of 
postage receipts  for the letters. However,  Co-operative Bank said that the receipts  did not 
contain the banks full address and that the post codes used were  incorrect. 
Mr S responded saying  that the post codes on the envelope were correct  and that the post 
office clerk  may have recorded  them incorrectly on the receipts.  Mr S also asked for copies 
of the correspondence sent to him in 2011  explaining why his account was closing.  
Mr S said he felt that as the bank sent him statements the account was still active. 
So, he thought  the card could have been re-issued.
Co-operative Bank responded to Mr S saying  that as account  was closed in 2011 they no 
longer hold any correspondence that he may have been sent at the time. 
Mr S remained unhappy  and brought this complaint to us. Our investigator  felt that it was 
likely Co-operative Bank didnt receive the first two letters.  They also had the view that 
Co-operative Bank were correct in sending Mr S statements  about  the closed account  and 
so felt that Co-operative Bank didnt do anything wrong. Mr S disagreed and so the matter  
has been passed onto me for a decision.
Ref: DRN05876972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked carefully at the proof  of postage and letters  sent by Mr S to determine if I 
think it was likely that the letters werent received by Co-operative  Bank.  
The proof of postage from the first letter Mr S sent has the wrong post code  and only a 
building number on the first line of address. Although I agree with Mr S that the post office 
clerk could  have made a mistake in typing  this, I cannot be certain  and so I have considered  
the information I have been presented with. From the proof  of postage  for the second  letter  
sent I can see that the building  name  and postcode  used were the same as the address for 
the customer services manager as written on the yearly statements sent to Mr S. 
However, the address is for a PO box and the PO box number is not included on the proof of 
postage. Co-operative Bank  have provided system notes for Mr S account which they say 
would have been updated if a letter  was received by them.  The notes dont  show that either  
letter was received. This, along with the incorrect and incomplete information recorded  on 
the proof of postage leads  me to find it unlikely, on balance, that either letter  was safely  
delivered to Co-operative Bank. Therefore,  I cannot say Co-operative  Bank have  done  
anything wrong  in telling Mr S they did not receive his letters.  
I have then considered  if Co-operative  bank  were right in sending annual  statements to Mr S 
and if, in doing so have  misled him into thinking he could  have  the credit card re-issued.
Co-operative bank  has an obligation to remind their customers if any inactive accounts  are in 
credit, even  if this is by a very small amount  as it was in this case. I think that it was right for 
them to send out an annual statement so that Mr S was reminded that he could transfer this 
money out if he wished  to do so. Whilst I agree that Co-operative bank were  right in sending  
statements to Mr S each year, I do understand why Mr S thought that the account  might still 
be active. 
Co-operative Bank have said that the statements were sent once a year just to remind Mr S 
of the balance in the account. The statements do not state  that the account was closed  or 
tell Mr S how he can withdraw the balance. It was not clear that the statements  were only 
being sent as a reminder to him. However,  Mr S provided us a letter which he was sent in 
2017 from Co-operative  Bank. This letter clearly states that the Co-operative bank were 
closing all their charity  branded credit  card accounts at the beginning of 2018. So, when Mr 
S sent the letters to Co-operative bank in 2018  he ought to have already known that this 
product no longer existed and would not be available to him. 
Therefore, I cannot say that Co-operative bank  did anything  wrong  by sending annual  
statements to Mr S or misled him into thinking  he could have the card re-issued. 
Ref: DRN05876973my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0587697