K822xcomplaint
Mr A says he received  poor service from Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd when it 
changed his motor insurance policy to another insurer.  He also says it breached  
confidentiality by discussing his policy with an unknown person. 
background 
On 8 May 2018  Mr As insurer (insurer A) was declared bankrupt. Mr A had paid his 
premium in full to insurer A at the start. Right Choice decided to pay another insurer to cover  
Mr As car for the rest of the policy year,  pending a refund  of his premium  from the scheme 
dealing with the bankruptcy. Right Choice emailed Mr A in May 2018 to say he didnt need to 
do anything, but that he could cancel the policy with the new insurer  if he wasnt happy.  
  
Mr A left the new policy in place.  In November 2018  he had an accident in his car. The new 
insurer investigated the claim and voided the policy. It said hed misrepresented  his no 
claims discount (NCD) deliberately, so it decided to keep the full premium.  Right  Choice 
wrote to Mr A in February 2019 asking  him to pay it the £678.42  it had paid the new insurer. 
But it wrote to him again shortly afterwards to say that it had now recovered 90% of that sum 
from the bankruptcy scheme. So it said Mr A now only owed it £67.95.  
 
Mr A didnt think he owed anything.  He said Right Choices  email in May 2018  hadnt said it 
would be paying  another insurer,  or that he might owe any extra money. He thought if there  
was a refund  from the scheme  it was owed to him. He also said an unknown person had 
spoken to Right  Choice about  his policy, even though hed added a password to prevent that 
happening. He thought  that persons involvement  had led to his policy being voided.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr As complaint. He said Right Choice should have made 
it clear that it was going to pay the new insurer for providing motor insurance cover  to Mr A. 
And he thought  it should also have set out any potential  liability  he may have. So he thought  
it should waive the £67.95  Mr A owed. The investigator also noted that after he and  Right  
Choice agreed  to use a password to access his details,  someone other than him was able to 
discuss his policy with an advisor - despite not knowing the password. He thought Right 
Choice should  pay Mr A £100 compensation  for the distress that had caused him.
Right Choice agreed to the investigators proposals. Mr A wanted more  compensation. He 
said data protection  issues  are important and the breach led to his policy  being voided.  He 
said someone at the bankruptcy  scheme had told him the refund from the scheme was owed 
to him. As the investigators  view didnt  change,  the complaint was passed to me for review
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the refund
When insurer A became  bankrupt,  although  Mr A had paid it the full premium  for the year, it 
had only provided  cover for a short period. So a refund was due to Mr A, but insurer A 
couldnt pay it, given  the bankruptcy. That meant any refund could only come from the 
bankruptcy scheme set up to compensate insurer As policy  holders. I think  it was bound  to 
take a long time to get the money  back,  as numerous people  were due compensation.
Ref: DRN05572552In my opinion it was appropriate for Right Choice to take prompt action to protect insurer As 
policy holders. Any delay would have meant they were without cover.  I think  it acted  in the 
best interest of policy holders, including Mr A, in arranging for a new insurer  to take on 
insurer As previous  role. In order to do that, it had to pay the new insurer the balance due 
for the rest of the years cover. The money  came  from its own funds. 
I think the email Right Choice sent to Mr A and other policy holders in May 2018 could have 
been clearer. It could  have stated that it was paying the new insurer  for the cover  it had 
agreed to provide. I can see why Right Choice may have  thought  that was obvious,  but I 
think it would  have  been worth making  it clear, to avoid any confusion later. The email  did 
say that financial matters would have to be addressed. But I dont think most consumers 
would have known  what that meant.  It also provided  links to sites explaining insurer As 
situation, but it didnt explain in the email how any future refund would work.
In my opinion, as the lack of clarity caused Mr A avoidable confusion, it would be fair and 
reasonable for Right Choice to waive the £67.95  it asked him to repay. I dont agree with him 
that he owed nothing,  or that the refund from the scheme should have been paid to him. 
Mr A was given the chance to tell Right Choice  in May 2018 that he didnt want cover from 
the new insurer. Had he done so, Right Choice wouldnt have paid for that cover.   Mr A 
would then have  had to find and pay for cover elsewhere for the rest of the year.  But he 
would have been entitled to any refund  of the sum hed paid to insurer  A that was later 
provided by the bankruptcy scheme.   
Mr A didnt choose to find other insurance himself.  He allowed  Right Choice to pay for cover 
for him with a new insurer. So the remainder of Mr As cover  for the year was paid for by 
Right Choice. That meant that when the refund from the bankruptcy scheme came through, 
it was due to Right  Choice, not Mr A. I can see why Mr A found all this confusing,  but I think  
its clear that he only paid once for his insurance  cover. I think  Right Choice acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to this issue. 
confidentiality 
I think its understandable that Mr A was upset  to find that someone claiming to be him was 
able to talk to an advisor in January 2019 after a password was set up in December  2018.  
The password was agreed when it emerged  that someone had called Right  Choice that 
month and had tried to cancel Mr As policy. Right Choice couldnt have known at that point 
what was happening,  as the caller  provided the right answer to all the security questions  it 
asked. But Mr A was told that its advisors  wouldnt speak to anyone about  his policy  in the 
future unless  the password was used.  
Ive listened to the calls that took place in January 2019. In the first one the caller  provided 
the usual security details  for Mr A, but argued that there wasnt  a password. I think the 
advisor was dubious about speaking  to him, but she did so anyway. The caller  wanted to 
cancel Mr As insurance, but she advised  him not to do that. He then told her that the NCD 
used on the policy wasnt legitimate. The advisor  said the insurer was currently  investigating 
the claim.  When the caller said hed have a problem in providing  any details of his work (an 
issue the insurer had queried)  the advisor put him on hold and the call ended. 
I think the advisor focused on asking questions rather than giving the caller any details of the 
policy. But as she shouldnt have engaged  with him at all, I think  it would be fair for Right 
Ref: DRN05572553Choice to pay Mr A £100 compensation. The next day, a caller  rang to say he wanted  to 
advise Right Choice that Mr A had given it false details of his NCD. The caller  said Mr A had 
paid a company  for proof of NCD that looked  convincing. The advisor  didnt discuss any 
details of Mr As policy with the caller. She just said Right Choice would look into it.  
By this point, the insurer had already queried with Right Choice several  aspects of the 
details Mr A had provided when he bought  the policy. That included discrepancies  with the 
NCD hed claimed.  So the insurer was investigating  the issues that led to the voidance  
before the call with an unknown  caller  was taken in January 2019.  I think that shows  the 
voidance wasnt due to the content of the call where the password was skipped.   
I know Mr A isnt happy with the approach weve taken to this issue.  But we can only look at 
the consequences of Right Choices poor service to him. Mr A was upset  when he found that 
Right Choice hadnt insisted on the caller  providing  a password before talking to him. But I 
dont think the voidance of Mr As policy  flowed from that call, as hes suggested. 
Were not able to advise on compliance with data protection  legislation  and requirements. If 
Mr A wants  to pursue  the issue its open  to him to contact the office of the Information 
Commissioner - as that organisation  deals with data protection  issues.
As I think  Right  Choice acted reasonably in agreeing to waive  the £67.95 charge and by 
agreeing to pay Mr A £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience, Im not going to 
require it to do anything  more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd should settle Mr As complaint 
by paying him £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience and by waiving the £67.95  
charge, as it has already agreed  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0557255