K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr M bought  a PPI policy in 1994 to protect his loan repayments. Whilst Nationwide cant 
confirm where the sale took place, Mr M recalls it was in a branch and the society agrees 
this was most likely  so I have reviewed  the sale on that basis.  It gave Mr M accident,  
sickness and unemployment cover.  He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
much of it is here),  Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, 
on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
Nationwide sold PPI at the time. 
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr M says he did not or would not have taken  out PPI on a loan so it must  have  been  added 
without his knowledge or consent. Nationwide cant provide Mr Ms documents  from the time 
of the sale. And Mr M hasnt given us much  detail about the sale.  But thats not surprising or 
unreasonable as it was so long ago.
As there are no documents from the sale, or notes about what was said in the meeting, 
I cant be sure how the society described  the policy and whether  it made  clear  to 
Mr M he had a choice. It has sent in a sample of the application form that it used to sell PPI 
at the time. Ive found no evidence to suggest  Nationwide didnt follow  its standard sales  
process in this case. And the form describes the PPI as Optional Credit  Insurance and sets 
out the cost separately.   
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms comments. But without  stronger  evidence  to show 
Nationwide Building  Society didnt make  him aware  the PPI was optional, I think its most 
likely it did and he agreed to take it. So I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr M so it didnt have to check the policy was 
right for him. It had to give clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so that he 
could make a properly informed choice. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr M as much information as it shouldve done. But 
I dont think better information  wouldve put him off taking  out the PPI. I say this because:
Ref: DRN07658852-Mr M was eligible for the cover  and wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
main things  not covered by the policy. 
-Mr M was entitled to less than three  months sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to his work benefits  and for up to 24 months for accident and 
sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy  cover. Mr M said 
his partner and family  would  have helped but thats not suitable alternative 
protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. So 
I think the PPI couldve  been useful for Mr M if he was sick or lost his job.
-The sample form shows the cost of the PPI would have been made clear and it 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
It follows I dont think Mr M has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0765885