K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that ReAssure Limited hasnt paid him the correct amount due under 
his Secure Life Plan. 
background
Mr J took out a Secure  Life Plan on 7 October 2003.  The plan was originally sold and 
administered by another company that was later taken over by ReAssure. For simplicity, 
Ill refer to ReAssure  throughout,  even where the actions were those of the other company.  
The plan offered a choice  of six levels of cover, with each providing a lump  sum benefit in 
the event the plan holder  died before  the end date. The plan also guaranteed to return  all the 
premiums paid at the end date if no claim was made. 
In November 2003 Mr J upgraded his level of cover. The Schedule of Benefits  was then 
reissued showing  the increased sum assured and premium. But the end date hadnt been 
updated. It showed the plan would end on 7 October 2018 and Mrs J would receive  £5,987 
on this date if he hadnt made a claim and had kept up with his premiums.  
Mr J contacted ReAssure  in October 2018  when he understood the policy  was due to end 
and claimed his refund of premiums. ReAssure  noted the end date stated on the Schedule  of 
Benefits was wrong, and cover shouldve continued  until 2023 when the premiums hed paid 
wouldve equalled the sum assured. Mr J was told he could keep the policy in place until 
2023 - at which point  it would  pay £5,987 as long as hed kept up with his premiums  - or he 
could cancel the plan now and receive  a refund of the premiums hed paid to date (£4,478).  
Mr J complained that ReAssure was treating  him unfairly. He said it should pay the higher 
amount set out in the Schedule of Benefits.  ReAssure acknowledged  it had made a mistake  
by quoting the wrong end date, and so sent Mr J a cheque for £250 to apologise for this. But 
it didnt agree it should pay the higher amount as this was more than hed paid in premiums.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
didnt uphold  it. He acknowledged that ReAssure had made  a mistake in the Schedule of 
Benefits. But he considered that when read as a whole, the documentation  made  it clear  
ReAssure would only refund the premiums paid into the policy. He explained  the plan wasnt  
designed to provide plan holders  with a profit. He thought ReAssures  offer of £250  
compensation plus its offer for Mr J to continue the plan to its intended  end date or cancel it 
based on the incorrect end date was a fair resolution in the circumstances. 
Mr J didnt agree and asked for a final decision on the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint for much the same reason as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr J so Id like to explain how Ive reached  this decision.
Ive looked carefully  at the terms and conditions,  alongside  the Schedule of Benefits, and 
Im satisfied ReAssure made  a mistake when it said the plan would end on 7 October  2018,  
Ref: DRN04657812instead of 7 October 2023. I say this because the terms and conditions make it clear  the plan 
would refund the premiums only once the amount  paid equalled the sum assured. 
The terms and conditions  include a table  of benefits. This shows  that for a man of Mr Js age 
hed pay a monthly premium of £24.95  for £5,987 worth of cover   this matches what  is 
shown in Mr Js Schedule of Benefits. So it would take 20 years of paying  premiums before 
the amount paid equalled the sum assured. So I accept the plan end date should  have  been  
7 October 2023. 
Given the clear statements throughout the terms and conditions  on what the plan was 
designed to do, I cant  reasonably say ReAssure was intending  to offer Mr J more preferable  
terms than the plan allowed for. Theres  nothing to suggest plan holders could make a profit  
from the plan if no claim  was made. And I dont  think  it would be fair for me to consider the 
Schedule of Benefits in isolation and suggest  that this is what ReAssure had offered. So 
I think its fair to treat the end date as a mistake. 
I know Mr J thinks  ReAssure should pay him the full amount quoted  in the Schedule of 
Benefits, but I dont  agree.  While  its clear  ReAssure made a mistake, I dont agree this 
means it has to honour the mistake. Instead  I consider  it should  put Mr J, as far as possible, 
back in the position he wouldve been  in had the mistake not happened.  
In this case, had the mistake not happened, ReAssure  would  have provided  Mr J with 
documentation that showed  his policy  was due to run until 7 October 2023. In this situation 
I think its likely Mr J would have continued paying his premiums  until this date and then, 
assuming he made no claim in the meantime, reclaimed his premiums paid at the end. 
In the circumstances, I consider ReAssures offer to allow  Mr J to settle the plan early and 
reclaim the premiums hed paid to date, or continue the plan until the intended end date was 
a fair solution as it gave Mr J the flexibility to decide  which option suited him best. 
I can see it was deeply disappointing for Mr J to discover he wasnt going to receive as much 
back from the plan as he expected. And its clear  hes had to spend  time and effort  resolving 
the matter. So I agree  its right that ReAssure  compensate him for this trouble and upset. But 
I consider the £250 it has already offered is reasonable  in the circumstances and I wont  be 
asking it to pay any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0465781