K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) wont reimburse  the cost of repairing 
his central heating boiler in accordance with a home emergency insurance policy he took out 
which was underwritten by GLI.
background
Mr A took out his insurance policy with GLI online on 25 September 2018. At that time his 
boiler was some 6 years  old and Mr A says it was working normally. In accordance  with its 
usual procedures GLI arranged for an engineer to inspect  the boiler to ensure  it was suitable 
for inclusion in the policy.
The engineer attended on 4 October  2018. His initial inspection  didnt reveal  anything  
untoward. He signed, and Mr A countersigned, his attendance report,  a copy  of which  he left 
with Mr A.
When the engineer  left the house, Mr A went to turn off the boiler.  He found it was already 
off, and he couldnt turn it on again  using  the thermostat control. He went  outside  and asked  
the engineer to return and look at it. The engineer did so, and according to Mr A said hed 
made a mistake with a wire, but it was all OK now. He left again, but Mr A couldnt restart his 
boiler.
Mr A immediately complained to GLI. He thought the engineer  had done  something which  
caused his boiler  to fail. It took GLI a few days to say it wouldnt cover  the fault under the 
policy, during which  Mr A was without  heating and hot water. In the meantime he arranged  
for an independent repairer to inspect the boiler. He diagnosed a faulty  printed  circuit board 
(PCB), which he replaced at a cost of £290.
Mr A continued to complain to GLI. It didnt accept his complaint. It said the engineers initial  
inspection was done on a test mode to check the boilers performance.  It wouldnt have 
revealed any fault with the programmer  within the boiler.
After his second inspection the engineer  had found that the programmer wasnt  wired in 
correctly. He had recorded this on his copy of his attendance report,  though not on the copy  
he had previously given  to Mr A. So GLI said that under the policy terms it wasnt required to 
meet the cost of the repair.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said she had 
investigated what checks would be carried  out on an inspection visit for a new policy. She 
was satisfied that electrical  and wiring faults  might not have come to light upon that 
inspection, and so wouldnt  have been included on the original  attendance  report.
Although Mr A had questioned whether such an inspection was adequate, she said this was 
a matter for GLI as insurer to decide, and we wouldnt interfere with this.
After his second inspection, the engineer  added his findings to his attendance report,  saying 
there was a wiring  fault with the programmer,  but hadnt added  this finding to Mr As copy  of 
the report. Mr A had said the engineer told him something different at the time, but without 
satisfactory evidence of this she couldnt  fairly  hold GLI responsible.
Ref: DRN05876142She thought  it unlikely  that the damage to the boiler  could  have been caused by the 
engineer as electrical and wiring checks werent carried out on an initial inspection. So 
without evidence to prove the engineer damaged  the boiler she couldnt  reasonably  ask the 
engineer to reimburse the cost.
Mr A maintained that the boiler was working  normally prior to the inspection.  GLI asked him 
to provide evidence  of this, which he said was difficult for him to prove.  The investigator 
accepted it was difficult for Mr A to do so. But if evidence, such  as a recent service visit, had 
been available,  we would have expected GLI to take account of it.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that:
1.he thought  it unreasonable  that an insurer should carry our such a desultory 
inspection to check if a boiler  was in working condition;
2.he thought  it wrong  for the engineer to change his copy  of the attendance report 
without at the same time changing  Mr As copy and getting  Mr A to countersign both 
copies. It cast doubt on what the engineer  had written on his copy;
3.his boiler was working before  the engineers visit. He thought it too much  of a 
coincidence that it stopped working as soon as he left. And if Mr A had known his 
boiler wasnt working, it would have  been illogical  for him to ask the engineer  to re-
inspect it before he left, instead of waiting and making an insurance  claim;
4.as GLI wouldnt provide cover  until his boiler had had its initial  inspection  and at least 
14 days had passed from when the policy was taken out, he said it was wrong  that 
GLI had taken  premiums for the policy from him in the meantime for two months;  and
5.GLIs customer service when he complained had been poor. He was left with no 
boiler in freezing weather,  promised responses  didnt happen and he had to get 
things fixed himself.
Responding to these  points, the investigator said;
1.the adequacy of any initial inspection was at an insurers discretion and risk;
2.it would  have been good  practice for the engineer to provide Mr A with a copy of the 
amended attendance  report. But it reflected further information after the second  
inspection, and she didnt  think  failure to do so had caused Mr A any loss. She didnt 
think it proved the engineer had damaged his boiler;
3.she didnt think the available evidence was sufficient to suggest the engineer caused 
the damage to the boiler;
4.when a policy is taken  out online or on the phone, payment is generally taken on 
purchase. If cover doesnt proceed within  the cooling  off period, any payments  taken  
will be refunded. In this case GLI had refunded all the premiums it had taken; and
5.GLI had apologised for not getting  back to Mr A sooner. The Investigator didnt think 
the time taken to investigate and respond  to Mr As claims was excessive.
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed.  So it has been  passed to me to issue a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05876143The policy contains  the following wording about  what will happen  at the beginning of the 
policy:
In the first year
After you have taken  out this policy  for the first time, we will contact you to carry out an initial 
service of your boiler and check to make sure your boiler and controls can be covered by 
this insurance. We will try and make sure a service is carried  out within  30 days  of buying 
your policy.  Please note these are carried out Monday  to Friday between  9.00am and 
5.00pm.
If any pre-existing faults are found, or any maintenance  work is required, you will need  to 
have repair  work completed before we can cover  your boiler and system. You will need to 
provide us with evidence  in writing of the work  having been completed in order for us to 
cover your boiler and system.
Like the investigator, I dont think theres enough  evidence for me to say that the engineer  
caused the damage to Mr As boiler. So I cant reasonably require GLI to repay him the cost 
of rectifying this. 
That being  so, I think that when the damage  came  to light at the time of the initial  inspection,  
GLI was entitled to say that Mr A had to repair it before cover under  the policy commenced. 
Mr A decided he didnt  want the policy, and GLI has refunded the premiums  it had already 
collected.
In respect of the other  aspects of Mr As complaint, I agree with the comments  of the 
investigator as set out above. All in all I dont think GLI has treated Mr A unfairly,  and dont 
require it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against 
Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0587614