K820x#14complaint
Mr W says he was mis-sold a unitised  with-profits mortgage endowment policy  by Aviva Life 
& Pensions  UK Limited. He says hes not a risk-taker and was never told about  the 
possibility of a shortfall.
background
The policy started  in February 1994, and Mr W surrendered the policy  in January  2006. The 
policy had a target amount of £20,000,  a 19-year term, and the premium was £51.65 a 
month.
At the time of this sale Mr W had an existing endowment  policy with another  provider. Mr W 
has told us that had a target amount of £22,500  and had been taken out in 1983.  He says he 
hasnt complained about that policy because it paid out well. Mr W was moving house and 
met with the adviser to arrange a new mortgage. He says his previous endowment was 
doing very well and was well on track to make over the target amount when he was advised 
to take out this policy, so he didnt question it when he was told that this policy would do the 
same.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, only limited information  is available  from the time 
of the sale. Originally  Aviva couldnt find any information from the time, but it subsequently 
located a few documents.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. She thought the policy  wasnt  unsuitable  for 
Mr W based on his circumstances and the general financial climate  in 1994. Mr W disagreed 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said It is convenient that Aviva can only produce certain documents from the 
point of sale, and not all the documents,  which I believe could help substantiate my 
complaint.
Aviva originally couldnt find any documents but thats not usual when a policy was 
surrendered so long ago. Theres  nothing  sinister in that, nor is there anything  sinister in 
Aviva not being  able to find anything else. Contrary to Mr Ws belief that further evidence 
could help substantiate his complaint, its actually more likely it would help substantiate 
Avivas defence of his complaint. For instance, if Aviva could produce the illustration from the 
time  and there would  have been one  then that would most likely show a potential  
shortfall at one of the growth rates and would have contained various  warnings about  the 
risks of the policy. That would help Aviva, not Mr W.
Unfortunately, because Mr W has left it so long to complain  about his policy, much of the 
information and documentation that would normally be relevant is no longer available. But 
Ive looked at what both sides have said. As Mr W is the one bringing  the complaint against  
Aviva, to uphold the complaint Mr Ws version needs  to be more  likely than Avivas version; 
not just as likely. And having considered everything, on balance  I cant say that Mr Ws 
version is anything  other than just as likely. 
Ref: DRN00306322It is not for me to re-advise Mr W, or substitute  what I think would have  been  best for him in 
1994. All I can do is look at the evidence and form a view as to whether the sale was bad.  I 
must also not use hindsight in making  a decision. At the time of the sale these policies were 
seen as low risk. They were thought as suitable  for most (but not all).
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken a risk. Whilst I acknowledge what  hes saying its not 
unusual for a consumer  to say this now, when bringing a complaint about investment risk, 
despite their attitude  to risk being  discussed  and them having been  willing  to take some  risk 
at the time of the sale. Its unfortunate the documents to show  what  was discussed are no 
longer available, but thats understandable as the policys not been  in force  for so long. So I 
need to look at Mr Ws circumstances  at the time.
At the time of the sale Mr W was 36, employed  in a laboratory and had an existing  
endowment- supported mortgage.  He had some savings and theres  nothing  in his 
circumstances that would indicate he couldnt  take a low level of risk (as these policies were 
considered at the time).
Whilst the illustration isnt available it seems  likely  this would have been in the format  that 
was standard  across  the industry  at the time.  This would have shown the potential  maturity 
value at three different growth  rates;  the lower showing a possible shortfall, the upper a 
possible surplus, and the middle showing the policy meeting  its target amount. Ive no 
reason to think the illustration wouldnt have been in that standard  format,  or that Mr W 
would have gone ahead with the policy without seeing an illustration showing him what he 
was buying and how much it would cost each month. As this illustration would have  shown a 
possibility of a shortfall,  I cant safely say Mr W took the policy unaware of the risk.
The illustration would  also have  contained  warnings such as:
These figures are only examples  and are not guaranteed  they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you will get back depends  on investment growth.
You could get back more or less than this.
Its not possible for me to know with certainty what was said at the time of the sale. Its 
difficult for me to conclude  that, on balance, the policy was clearly unsuitable. It is also very 
difficult to be sure the policy was misrepresented to Mr W such that now, over 24 years later, 
the business should pay compensation. Certainly  I havent, like the adjudicator  before me, 
seen enough to conclude that a guarantee was given as to the policys performance. 
It seems  from Mr Ws submissions that he was aware endowment  policies rely on 
investment performance  as hes said his previous policy was doing very well and was well 
on target. Phrases  such as this indicate  Mr W knew the policies needed to do well to meet  
the target amount.  
Ive no doubt the policy  was spoken of in very positive terms. Whether that went  too far isnt 
something Ive seen persuasive  evidence of. In any event Id have  to take into account that 
whatever was said at the time of the sale, at least some documentation would have given to 
Mr W that would have  shown him there was a risk with this policy.
Ref: DRN00306323my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 26 March  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0030632