K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about his home contents  insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, in regard 
to a claim he made to it after he lost some jewellery.
background
Mr R was working in his garden  one day and took off some of his jewellery,  putting  it in a 
pocket. Later he realised the jewellery  was missing and made a claim to Ageas for three 
rings, a bracelet  and a neck chain.
Ageas wasnt entirely convinced about the circumstances of the loss and it noted Mr R only 
had limited evidence  that he owned the items claimed for. When  Ageas  wouldnt progress 
the claim Mr R complained to this service. He felt Ageas had acted unfairly  and that hed 
been discriminated against, particularly by the nature of its enquiries.
Ageas then reviewed  matters and told us (prior to us making  any findings on the complaint) 
that it would  reconsider  the claim and offer settlement for any items Mr R had proven 
ownership of. It didnt say so at that point  but it later transpired  that it would assess that on 
a strict  proof  basis (so if Mr R had receipts or valuations for items, it would settle  for them,  
but not just based on photos or other  evidence  of ownership). We told Mr R that Ageas  had 
agreed to consider his complaint and that we couldnt look at his concerns regarding 
discrimination. Mr R was pleased to hear Ageas had agreed  to review matters  and 
accepted our investigators view that this was fair. But later,  when Ageas told him it would 
only settle for one of the jewellery items  (the neck chain), because  he hadnt provided  strict  
proof of ownership regarding the others, Mr R made a further complaint.
Mr R said he thought  wed told Ageas to pay his claim, so he didnt understand why it now 
wasnt doing so or how that was fair. He said Ageas had discriminated against him.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt  make a finding about discrimination. He also 
said the policy requires  the policyholder to provide proof of ownership and doesnt set a 
level or limit below which proof wont be required. Therefore, he felt Ageas had acted 
reasonably both in asking  Mr R for proof  and in declining to settle for most of the claimed 
for items.
Mr R said he was unhappy  hed done  nothing wrong,  but Ageas had treated him badly. His 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. When I considered it, I wasnt  satisfied it was fair 
for Ageas to settle  on the basis of strict proof of ownership, so I had our investigator tell it so. 
I arranged for photos Mr R had provided  to be sent to it and pointed  out Id seen no 
reasoning from it as to why these didnt evidence that Mr R, around the time of the loss, had 
owned the three rings claimed for. I also told Ageas why I felt Mr Rs ownership  of the 
bracelet had been satisfied.
Ageas responded. It said the photos  werent enough, it would expect/want some other proof  
such as receipts. Regarding the bracelet its entire comment wasnt fully clear but it 
indicated it might consider  settling  for it.
I reviewed everything and felt that whilst Ageas enquiries had been  fair, the same  couldnt 
be said for the claim outcome it had reached. In short, I said Ageas needed  to settle Mr Rs 
claim and pay him compensation. Both parties said they accepted my findings.
Ref: DRN05009142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Mr R did accept  the view our investigator  issued  on his previous complaint but he clearly  
didnt understand  that whilst  he had provided  proof, Ageas wanted more.  I think if he had, 
hed have asked  for an ombudsmans decision. So Im happy  I can consider his whole 
complaint, including the concerns he raised  during our first involvement about how Ageas 
had treated him.
In that respect,  whilst I understand that Mr R feels  hes been  treated badly  by Ageas, I can 
consider whether or not it has acted fairly and reasonably. However, whilst I know  Mr R 
thinks hes been discriminated  against,  that particular phrasing has certain legal 
connotations and is best considered by a court. It isnt something we would normally be 
able to offer comment on  not beyond whether or not the insurer  has acted fairly and 
reasonably.
From what  Ive seen Mr Rs main concerns about how Ageas treated  him relate  to enquiries 
made by its loss adjuster. In summary the adjuster questioned Mr R about the garden work 
hed been doing at the time of the loss, and why he was able to do that work but not got 
back into the house to put the jewellery  away safely. The adjuster also spoke with Mr R 
about someone of a similar description to Mr R whod been linked to or accused of benefit  
fraud.
Whilst I understand these  enquiries were upsetting for Mr R, an insurer  does have a duty to 
ensure only valid claims  are accepted and settled for. On occasion,  particularly where  
claims for loss are concerned that might involve it asking some  difficult questions  which  are 
uncomfortable for the policyholder to hear.  Given the circumstances of the claim, and the 
information the adjuster found  about  the other person before he visited Mr R, I think the 
enquiries made were  reasonable.
I also think it was reasonable for Ageas to ask for proof of ownership of items. And it is up 
to the policyholder, in the first instance, to show,  at least on balance,  they likely owned  the 
items claimed for. If they do that, and the insurer has no fair grounds  to decline the claim  
such as:
showing  the items werent in fact owned, or
reasonably having asked for strict  proof  of ownership which hasnt been provided, or
that a relevant exclusion applies; Then the insurer should settle the claim.
Mr R has shown photos of him wearing  three  rings.  That, on balance, shows he owned 
three rings. Mr R claimed for three lost rings from Ageas. It hasnt shown that the items 
claimed for werent owned. It hasnt  sought to rely on an exclusion. I told Ageas previously 
that I dont  think it has sufficient grounds  to say strict proof is required. Ageas should  
provide settlement to Mr R for his three  rings.  To do that Ageas will have to appoint  a 
jewellery specialist  to assess the photos  of the rings and talk to Mr R about them in order 
determine what a like replacement and value would be for them. It can then either replace 
the rings or settle for them in cash. If it chooses the latter,  then it will have to pay Mr Rs 
cost to replace  them.
Ref: DRN05009143Ageas already agreed to settle for the neck chain. Regarding  the bracelet, Mr R showed he 
had a bracelet  that was repaired.  Mr R claimed for a lost bracelet from Ageas. It hasnt 
shown that the bracelet claimed for wasnt owned. It hasnt sought to rely on an exclusion.
I told Ageas  previously that I dont think it has sufficient grounds to say strict proof  is 
required. Ageas should provide settlement  to Mr R for his bracelet. And, if it hasnt yet done  
so, for his neck chain  also.
Regarding the neck chain  and bracelet; these were the subject of a previous claim where 
they were replaced  and, regarding the bracelet, subsequently repaired. If Ageas has access  
to the previous claim detail, meaning  it can determine the nature and value of these items, 
then it can use that information to form the basis of its settlement. If there is insufficient 
information, then it will have to add these two items to the list for the jewellery  specialist to 
assess and determine.
On the point of strict  proof, this service generally accepts that many  people dont keep 
receipts and the like. We accept that insurers need to be satisfied that items claimed  for 
were owned  but we believe a fair and reasonable approach to this should be taken. Only in 
limited circumstances  are we likely to accept that an insurer  insisting on seeing strict proof  
of ownership in order to settle a claim is fair and reasonable. An example might be where a 
policyholder has been untruthful during the claims process in some way. Nothing  Ive seen 
here makes me think Ageas can reasonably require Mr R to provide more proof than he has 
done. Its refusal to settle for the claimed  for items, on the basis he hasnt proven his claim, 
given what he has been able to provide, in my view, is not fair or reasonable.
Settlement of all items will be subject to the policys  remaining terms and conditions. 
Whilst, as I said above,  I think Ageas enquiries were fair, it got the claim outcome wrong.
I accept it has been  upsetting for Mr R to be without his goods. And I think  Ageas could 
have been clearer  with Mr R when it said it would progress his claim  as it knew then that it 
didnt intend to settle for everything. Because Ageas wasnt  clear Mr R was misled  as to its 
intentions which caused him further distress and inconvenience when it made  itself clear 
that only one item would be settled for. Im satisfied that £150 compensation is fairly  and 
reasonably due.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, Ive no need  to change  or move 
away from them. They now stand as the findings  of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to settle Mr Rs claim for his three 
lost rings, bracelet  and neck chain (if the latter hasnt been settled already), in line with my 
comments above. I also require Ageas  Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
Ref: DRN05009144ombudsman
Ref: DRN0500914