K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has caused the condition of his furniture to 
worsen through his claim for damage on his contents insurance policy.
background
Following a flood  Mr W claimed to AXA for damage  to his contents. AXA arranged for his 
furniture to go to its repairer, but Mr W got it returned as he said it would take too long.  He 
said the furniture  was returned in a worse condition with white  marks and dents on it. Mr W 
said AXA didnt help him to deal with the problem despite the photos  he sent and only 
recommended he contact our service.  He said restoring his furniture will cost around £4,000.
Mr W also complained that when his furniture was returned by AXAs repairers they caused  
damage to his home. AXA said payment  for repairs to Mr Ws home and nearly  £3,000 for 
his furniture have  since been made. AXA said the repairers took photos of the items before  
collection which show the marks about which Mr W complained  were  already present, and 
they denied they had caused any damage. AXA said it thought the damage  was age-related.
Mr W said his photos highlighted the damage  and AXAs repairers  notes record damage on 
return, but not on collection. AXA said that based on the evidence  it declined to compensate 
Mr W for his furniture  but paid him £100 compensation for the stress it had caused him for 
the time it had taken  to get the information to decide  his complaint.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld  as she thought the damage was 
present at collection of the furniture. She said shed seen the same  photos of the sofa sent 
by both parties and AXA had shown  they were  taken before collection and show  the marks 
to which  Mr W has referred. She thought marks to other furniture may have been caused by 
the repairers, but this was covered by AXAs payment for the repairs as part of Mr Ws claim.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigator. He said he didnt understand the dates to which  the 
investigator referred, and the furniture was affected by AXAs repairers and the photos  and 
notes showed  this to be the case. Mr W requested an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W sent his furniture  to AXAs contractors and said it came  back  in a worse state. I have 
looked carefully at AXAs  handling  of the repairs to Mr Ws furniture to see if it has acted in 
accordance with the terms  of his policy and treated him fairly. 
Mr W thought  the white  marks on his sofa suite  might be paint spatter. AXAs  repairers said 
his furniture was in its storage area which is not near its paint workshop and it didnt cause 
any marks. I dont think AXAs repairers had started  any work on Mr Ws furniture when he 
requested its return and so I think it was kept in storage  rather than an area where repairs 
are carried  out.
Ive looked at the pictures from both parties for the sofa suite,  and AXAs information shows  
its pictures were taken on collection.  Since  they show the marks to which  Mr W has referred, 
Ref: DRN01546402Im satisfied this wasnt damage caused by AXAs repairers. I dont think the comment  on the 
delivery note changes this.
There isnt the same  photo evidence concerning other of Mr Ws furniture  and so its possible 
that this was damaged through the handling of the repairers. AXA has paid Mr W nearly 
£3,000 for the cost of repairs and the damage  hes mentioned wouldnt increase the cost 
according to AXAs estimate. I think that AXAs payment to the repair  of Mr Ws furniture 
adequately covers any repairs required.
I was sorry to learn of the stress that Mr W and his family have suffered during his claim. 
AXA paid Mr W £100 compensation for its delays and a further £100 to replace accessories. 
Having looked  at the handling of the claim I think AXAs payment is reasonable in the 
circumstances and I dont  require it to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0154640