K820x#14complaint
Ms J says Elevate Credit International Limited  - trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Sunny provided to Ms J between April and July 
2018. A summary  of Ms Js borrowing history  is as follows:
Ms Js complaint was reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator  partly upheld  
the complaint  and thought  loan 4 shouldnt have been given as they thought Ms Js 
borrowing was an indication that she wasnt managing her money. Sunny disagreed  and 
asked for an ombudsmans review. 
Whilst the complaint  was waiting for a decision, another  of our adjudicators reviewed the 
complaint again  but didnt think it should be upheld.  They thought that whilst Sunny should 
have done further checks, as it wasnt clear those  checks would show,  they couldnt  say 
Sunny was wrong to lend to Ms J. 
We didnt hear back from Ms J but as the complaint  was already waiting for an 
ombudsmans decision, it was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms J could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 13/04/2018 15/04/2018 6 £600.00 £167.81
2 18/04/2018 19/04/2018 6 £800.00 £223.04
3 22/04/2018 20/08/2018 6 £800.00 £219.33
4 11/07/2018 04/09/2018 6 £150.00 £262.62
Ref: DRN07366972the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Js complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Both adjudicators didnt  uphold Ms Js complaint about loans 1 to 3. Ms J didnt  respond  to 
either set of findings.  As there no longer appears  to be a dispute about these loans, I wont  
be making any further findings on them. This just leaves loan 4 for me to consider. 
Sunny has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving  any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Ms J about her employment status  and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £2,334. She also declared  her outgoings were 
around £600. Sunny says it also searched  Ms Js credit file. Ive seen  a copy of the findings  
and there  werent  any recent adverse entries  like defaults or county court  judgements 
(CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out.
Looking at loan 4 in isolation,  it could be argued  that a pattern was beginning to emerge 
which might  suggest Ms J was struggling  to repay her loans sustainably. Loan 4 was taken 
out when loan 3 was still running. But there  was a three-month gap between loans 3 and 4 
and the amount she was borrowing had decreased significantly.
So based  on what Sunny  would have  been aware  of at the time, I dont think  at this point it 
would have been aware that Ms J was using the loans in an unsustainable manner. 
The loan was Ms Js fourth one with Sunny in three months, so I think Sunny should  have 
been looking  to build  a clearer picture than it did about Ms Js finances before lending her 
this loan. Asking to see things such as her bank statements, or for copies of her payslips 
and/or bills. 
But, in saying this, Ms J hasnt provided this service with any information about her financial 
position at the time, such as bank statements or a credit file. So, without any further  
information, I can only conclude that while Sunnys checks  didnt  go far enough, I cant say 
an error has been made as I dont know whether it would have thought  the loan was 
affordable for Ms J. Therefore, I cant say Sunny was wrong to have provided Ms J with loan 
4. 
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Ms J, but I hope my explanation will help 
her understand why Ive reached  this conclusion.
Ref: DRN07366973my final decision
I do not uphold  Ms Js complaint and make no award against Elevate Credit  International 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before  10  April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0736697