K820x#14complaint
Miss T and Mr K complain  about  issues theyve experienced with a car supplied with finance 
from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.
 
background
In June 2015 Miss T was supplied with a new car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS.
When Miss T collected the car and drove  it home, both the front and rear nearside tyres 
burst. The car was recovered to the dealership who replaced the tyres at no cost to Miss T.
Miss T says she experienced issues with alignment.  In January 2016, a dealership  carried  
out tracking realignment  and replaced a tyre.
In October  2017 the steering rack was replaced and a wheel alignment was carried out.
In June 2018 the car failed its MOT due to worn brake pads and discs and a bald nearside 
tyre. Miss T had these repaired at her expense.
In March 2019 Miss T contacted MBFS and asked about ending  the agreement  early. MBFS 
advised Miss T that she would have to pay around £1500 to do this. Miss T wasnt  happy to 
pay this and complained. The car was returned in July 2019 whilst the complaint was 
ongoing.
Following the return  of the car MBFS asked Miss T to pay end of contract charges.
When MBFS issued its final response to Miss Ts complaint, it waived the end of contract 
damage charges  but said the excess mileage  charges remained payable. In relation to 
Miss Ts complaint about the quality of the car, MBFS said it was unable to find a correlation 
between the tyres blowing out and the issues  with the tracking. It acknowledged that the 
tracking had been  adjusted  on a  number of occasions but said that because the car drove 
normally afterwards the adjustments  were successful. MBFS said it didnt think  that Miss Ts 
use of the car had been impaired because she had exceeded the mileage limit.
Miss T wasnt  happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the car was of satisfactory  quality 
and said the majority of the repairs had been due to wear and tear. In relation  to the end of 
contract charges  the investigator  thought  it was fair to ask Miss T to pay excess  mileage.
Miss T didnt agree. She said that whilst she agreed  that any excess mileage up to March 
2019 was her responsibility, she had never  been  told that she didnt have to pay the £1500 
fee to end the agreement  early and didnt think  she should be responsible for extra  costs  
from March 2019  onwards.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07263042Because MBFS supplied  the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality.  Cars  are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking  into account  all of the relevant circumstances such 
as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Where a fault occurs  with a car in the first 6 months,  its presumed that the fault was present 
at the point of supply  unless the business can show otherwise. The business gets one 
opportunity to fix the fault. After 6 months the burden of proof is revered and its up to the 
consumer  in this case Miss T  to show that the car had a fault at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the repair history of the car. I can see that two of the tyres burst on the day 
Miss T collected the car. Although I wouldnt expect tyres  to burst  on a brand new car, I can 
see that the business replaced these free of charge which is what Id expect it to do. After 
this, I cant see that there were any further  issues with tyres bursting,  so I think  the repair 
was successful.
I understand that Miss T experienced  issues with alignment and has said that the steering 
wheel was offset by 10 to 15 degrees when driving  in a straight line. I can see that the 
wheels were aligned  in January 2016  and October 2017. Because  the alignment  issues were 
reported outside of the first 6 months  its up to Miss T to show  that there  was a fault present 
at the point of sale. Ive taken into account that the tyres burst  but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the burst tyres were the cause of, or related to, the alignment issues.  The 
tracking on a car can be affected by a number  of factors  including  road surfaces,  kerbs  and 
potholes. Ive taken into account  the length  of time which passed between alignments.  
Based on what Ive seen,  the car performed as expected after each alignment had been 
carried out. If the alignment hadnt  been  successful I wouldve expected  Miss T to return  the 
car straightaway. On balance, I think its more likely that the alignment issues  were caused 
by external factors.
Ive taken into account that the steering rack was replaced in October  2017.  The steering 
rack is linked  to the wheels and if Miss T had been  driving the car with alignment issues  for a 
period of time, its likely that this affected the steering rack. If the steering rack had been 
faulty at the point of supply I wouldve expected it to require replacement much  sooner than 
28 months into the agreement. Taking all of the available information  into account  Im not 
persuaded that there was an inherent  fault with the steering  rack.
Theres a dispute  between Miss T and MBFS as to who paid for the repairs  to the steering 
rack. Miss T says that she paid but the dealership says the work  was done under warranty. 
Miss T hasnt provided this service with any evidence to show that she paid for the repairs,  
such as receipts. On balance I think its likely that the repairs  were carried out under 
warranty.
Miss T is unhappy that the car failed its MOT in June 2018. Ive looked  at the MOT  records 
and I can see that the advisories were worn brake discs and low tyre tread. The car had 
covered 43,782 miles at this point. Brakes and tyres  are subject to wear  and tear and require 
replacement from time to time in all cars,  so I cant fairly conclude that these advisories point 
to an inherent fault with the car.
Based on the repair history and the other available information, Im not persuaded that the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. I think  the issues, including  the 
alignment and the steering rack, are more likely to have been due to external factors.  
Ref: DRN07263043Miss T has said that she asked to end the agreement early  in March 2019  but was unhappy  
at being asked to pay a fee of £1500. MBFS has said that this charge was based on the 
condition of the car. Miss T disputes  this and says it was based on an estimate of current  
value after depreciation and mileage. Shes also said that if shed handed the car back at 
this point she wouldnt have incurred excess mileage charges.
I havent been provided with any information about the condition of the car as at March  2019 
but I can see that when the car was handed  back in July 2019 the inspection report identified 
chargeable damage, so I think  its likely that there  was some  damage to the car in March  
2019.. The mileage  when the car was handed  back was approximately  14,000 miles over the 
contractually agreed limit, so again, and unless  Miss T covered 14,000 miles in around  4 
months, I think  its likely  that the excess mileage  charges would have applied in March 2019. 
On balance, I dont  think MBFS acted unfairly  in asking Miss T to pay a fee of £1500 in 
March 2019, because the terms and conditions of the agreement  make it clear that Miss T is 
responsible for any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear and for any mileage over and 
above the contractually agreed limit.
I appreciate that Miss T isnt happy  about the way MBFS handled her complaint and the 
length of time it took and I understand why she feels that she lost out financially as a result 
of not ending the agreement early. Ultimately however,  it was Miss Ts decision not to hand 
the car back  in March  2019 and although MBFS took a while to investigate  the different 
aspects of Miss Ts complaint, I cant say that the end of contract  charges were  unfair.  I think 
Miss T would have incurred these  whether  shed  handed the car back  in March 2019 or later.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0726304