K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC misled him about  the charges  he would have to 
pay for his Discretionary Portfolio Management  service.
background
During 2015 Mr N was in touch with a number of investment service  providers as he was in 
the process of selling his company and he would have significant  funds to invest. Mr N had 
several meetings  with Barclays  throughout 2015. Following a meeting in October  2015  he 
decided to invest in Barclays Discretionary Portfolio Management (DPM)  service  and a 
management fee of 0.95% was agreed. Mr N signed  the application form on 
29 October 2015 and his account was opened soon after.
In August  2017  Mr N was in touch with Barclays as he was switching his bank account  to a 
Barclays Premier  account and hed also taken out credit cards. He experienced some delays 
with this and he also said he was having  problems with his mobile banking app. Mr N also 
experienced some issues with a Smart  Investor  account hed opened.  And, at this time Mr N 
was also in discussions about investing further  funds with Barclays using its Advisory 
Investment Service. Barclays paid Mr N £150 to compensate him for the delays in setting up 
his accounts and it refunded insurance  fees associated with the packaged  bank account.  It 
made a number of other gestures in relation to his other concerns. 
In April 2018 Mr N asked  for information  about the fees he was paying  for his DPM service  
as he was looking to switch to another investment service provider. Barclays sent Mr N a fee 
schedule which set out the fees associated with the account. Mr N complained as he said he 
hadnt been made aware of any fee except the management fee of 0.95% when he agreed 
to take the DPM  service  in October 2015.  Mr N provided copies of emails which  he said 
showed he hadnt understood the fees  he felt Barclays had misled him. Mr N also raised 
concerns about  the other issues  hes encountered  with Barclays  since  then.
Barclays provided its final response to Mr Ns complaint in August 2018. It said Mr N had 
been given clear information about the fees associated with the DPM service in 
October 2015. It said the fee schedule had been  handed to him at the meeting in 
October 2015 and a copy had been sent with his suitability letter in November 2015. It also 
said he was an experienced investor  so believed he had a good understanding of how the 
fees would  apply.
Barclays said it believed Mr Ns other  concerns had been dealt with adequately at the time, 
with Mr N accepting a number of gestures that had been offered to him. This included £150 
for the delays with his account switch  and the mobile banking issues.  Portfolio finance  
arrangements were also offered and put in place, allowing  Mr N to repay a Spanish 
mortgage in his name. This arrangement was provided to Mr N with zero fees and a 
discounted interest rate of 1.65% (instead of 2.00%) in recognition of the Smart Investor 
issues he experienced. The mortgage rate set against Mr Ns UK property was also 
discounted as an additional benefit.  Lastly,  Mr N was provided  with a discount  of 25% on the 
annual advice fee charged  on his Barclays Advisory Investment service  as a further gesture 
of goodwill  (0.6% per year instead of 0.8%  per year).
Barclays said Mr N had been happy to accept these  gestures at the time and so it didnt 
think it should do any more to put things  right. However, Barclays offered Mr N £250 for 
failing to respond to his complaint within eight  weeks.
Ref: DRN05453512Mr N remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.  He said English  wasnt  his 
first language and Barclays  had failed  to take into account this vulnerability.  Mr N maintained 
he hadnt been provided with the fee schedule until hed complained. He also said the 
presentation pack provided  to him at the meeting in October 2015 referred  to an all-in-one 
fee structure. He said he thought this meant only one fee would apply, which  he understood 
would be 0.95% of the value of his portfolio.  Mr N added that when he asked for clarification  
of the fees charged by email in October 2015, only the management fee was mentioned. 
Mr N thought Barclays hadnt complied with the relevant regulations and said the fees hadnt 
been communicated in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ns complaint. He was satisfied Mr N was provided with the 
fee schedule and he also believed the presentation wouldve made Mr N aware  that third 
party charges would  be passed  on. Regarding the email exchange in October 2015, the 
investigator thought  Barclays  had only said the annual management fee would be 0.95%. As 
the other charges had been  highlighted in other sales documents, he didnt think Barclays  
had misled Mr N. 
Mr N didnt accept the investigators opinion; he maintained he hadnt  been provided with the 
fee schedule.  He said no fees had been  mentioned at any meetings before October 2015 
and at this meeting only the presentation document was passed to him. Mr N says at this 
point he was a novice in this kind of banking and his lack of English skills and the stress he 
was under because  of the sale of his business  made him vulnerable. He said Barclays didnt 
ever offer to communicate with him in his first language, French, even  when he made it clear 
he didnt understand the fees he would be charged.
Mr N said Barclays  didnt provide him with an initial  disclosure document,  which  it is 
required to do under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  regulations. He also said the 
presentation document didnt clearly  detail the product  cost and the ongoing charges, which 
is required under  UK regulations and EU law.
Mr N also raised  concerns about Mr L at Barclays, who had sold him the DPM service. He 
said the other issues hed encountered and complained about since his account  was opened 
showed Mr L had frequently  misled and misinformed  him.
Barclays was asked  to comment  on Mr Ns appeal.  It said the majority  of issues raised had 
already been addressed in its final response letter. It didnt  accept Mr N hadnt understood 
the information provided and maintained he was an experienced investor who had 
demonstrated throughout his negotiations  with Barclays that hed researched other providers 
and services they offered.
As the complaint wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 March 2019 explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mr Ns complaint. Overall, I thought the information  Barclays gave Mr N about the fees he 
would be charged  for the DPM service was clear,  fair and not misleading.  An extract is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
Ref: DRN05453513Mr N didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following points:
as a retail client, Barclays should  have disclosed the fees to him before making the 
recommendation as per the FCAs Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 6.1A;
the adviser should have disclosed the DPM service fees at the meetings in April 2015 
and September  2015 as he was already aware  of Mr Ns investment strategy;
the meeting  on 13 October 2015 was held at a caf  this was inappropriate because 
it was noisy;
Mr N was a vulnerable customer because he is French and he was losing his job  
Barclays didnt treat him fairly  in this regard;
he was not given a copy of the DPM fee schedule  at the meeting on 
13 October 2015;
under  EU law, the fund manager  was required to disclose the third party costs 
numerically or as a percentage  Mr N had complained about this to the Channel 
Islands Financial Ombudsman;
it was difficult for Mr N to make any meaningful comparison  between the fees 
charged by different  investment  service providers because the third party fees 
werent disclosed to him;
the suitability  letter was dated 23 November  2015,  not 22 November 2015  Mr N 
asked for a copy of the letter I had referred to;
the suitability  letter didnt refer to the DPM fee schedule, just a fee schedule  it 
should have been  referenced by its proper name;
the adviser didnt  tell him whether he was a restricted  or independent adviser,  which 
he was required to do under the rules introduced by the Retail  Distribution Review 
(RDR);
the adviser didnt  carry  out sufficient fact finding  about his situation and so didnt act 
in his best interests when making the recommendation;  
when Mr N asked about  the fee structure in November 2017, the adviser again failed 
to disclose all of the fees, referring only to a 0.95%  fee  this further  evidences  that 
the adviser failed  to provide information that was clear,  fair and not misleading;  and
Barclays didnt pay him £150  for the delay  in setting up his accounts,  it was offered to 
him because he threatened to leave Barclays.
I asked the investigator  to explain to Mr N that I wouldnt be considering his complaint  that 
the adviser failed  to assess his needs correctly  and didnt act in his best interests when  
making the recommendation. This was because this didnt form part of the complaint hed 
made against Barclays, which was about  how the DPM fees were described to him. Barclays 
would need to be given the opportunity  to respond to this complaint first before  our service 
can consider it.
I also asked the investigator to tell Mr N that Id seen  hed sent us a copy of a final response 
letter from Barclays dated 17 December  2018. This was a response to a complaint hed 
made about the tax advice hed received. I explained I also wouldnt be considering  this 
issue in my decision as it wasnt part of the complaint  hed initially  asked us to consider.  The 
investigator told Mr N he could  register a new complaint with us about this if he wanted our 
service to consider  it.
Mr N said it was important that I consider the way the adviser evaluated his needs in my 
decision. He said the adviser  had made mistakes during the fact finding process, such  as 
incorrect details about the investments he held abroad.  He said this demonstrated  that the 
Ref: DRN05453514advisers notes, including that he was given the fee schedule at the meeting of 
13 October 2015, cant be relied upon.
The investigator also provided Mr N with a copy of the suitability  letter Id been  given  dated  
22 November 2015. Mr N commented that the letter was identical to the one hed received, 
except his version was dated 23 November 2015.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr N, who clearly feels very strongly that he was 
misled by Barclays. But having considered all of the evidence Mr N has put forward,  I still 
think Barclays provided enough information  about  the fees he would  be charged for the DPM 
service in accordance  with the relevant regulations.
Mr N has raised  a number of concerns in response to my provisional  decision. Whilst I feel 
I adequately addressed a lot of the issues raised in my provisional decision,  Ill address the 
additional points  raised by Mr N in turn.
Barclays obligations under COBS
Mr N has referred  to some specific rules in COBS  (COBS 6.1A.17-19). I dont think these 
rules apply to the DPM service provided here as they relate  to adviser  charges.  But I agree 
that similar principles should  apply about clear  disclosures of charges. I dont think Barclays  
was in breach  of these. The DPM service annual management charge was clearly explained 
in the pitch document provided  to Mr N at the meeting  on 13 October 2015, as well as in the 
fee schedule also given to him during this meeting. I know Mr N disputes receiving this 
document, but for the reasons already  provided  in my provisional decision, I think he was 
most likely given it.
In both documents, the annual management  charge was described as a percentage of the 
portfolio value. In the fee schedule, a working  example  was given in cash terms  I think  this 
was clear and complies with the spirit of COBS 6.1A.19.
Mr N says this charge wasnt disclosed to him in good time before the recommendation was 
made. He believes  the charging structure shouldve been  disclosed to him at the first 
meeting he had with the adviser  in April 2015. For the reasons explained above, I dont think  
there is a rule requiring this for discretionary management fees. But in my provisional  
decision I said that I didnt  think it was reasonable for Barclays to disclose the fees before  
the meeting on 13 October 2015 because  his investment strategy  hadnt  yet been decided.  
In any case, DPM fees are often subject to negotiation with clients  so they cant be 
disclosed at the start,  before the negotiation  has taken place. But Mr N has said his 
investment strategy  was discussed before 13 October 2015. This is evidenced by the fact 
that on 13 October 2015, Barclays presented  its recommendation that he should invest  in 
the DPM service.
Although the suitability  letter was sent to Mr N in November 2015 it would appear  that the 
recommendation to invest in the DPM service was made on 13 October 2015. I say this 
because Mr N signed the application form for the DPM  service on 28 October 2015. So, on 
the face of it, Mr N wouldnt have known the annual management charge before the 
Ref: DRN05453515recommendation was made. However, I dont  think this makes a difference  to my view of his 
complaint. This is because Mr N hasnt  complained  about not being told the annual  
management charge   his complaint focuses on the lack of clarity around the additional fees 
he was charged.  As Ive said above,  I think these fees fall outside the scope of Barclays  
DPM fees. So, I dont  think  it wouldve made  a difference  to his decision to proceed  with the 
investment if he was given the fee schedule  before  the recommendation was made. 
third party fees
I appreciate that the way the third party fees were  described made it difficult  for Mr N to 
compare the total fees Barclays would charge with those charged by other investment 
providers. But this is always  going  to be the case with discretionary portfolio management, 
since each manager  will select different funds and each fund may have different charges. Im 
satisfied Mr N was aware  of the existence of the additional charges and if he wanted  to know 
more about how these compared  with other  providers, I think he couldve asked for further 
information about this. 
Mr N has said the fund manager was required to disclose the product costs under European 
Union law. I understand that Mr N has submitted a complaint about this to the Channel  
Islands Financial Ombudsman. This is because the fund manager was based in Jersey. 
Mr N has complained that he hasnt yet heard  back from the fund manager  in respect of this 
complaint, but this falls outside of the scope of the complaint Im considering.
location of the meeting on 13 October 2015
Mr N says meeting at a caf wasnt a suitable  environment for such an important meeting. 
But Ive seen the email correspondence in which the meeting was arranged.  The meeting 
was arranged for 13 October 2015  and the adviser asked Mr N whether hed like to meet  at 
his business or somewhere else. Mr N suggested a caf would be better but said if it needed 
to be more private they could meet at his home address. The adviser replied saying he 
would be happy  to come  to Mr Ns home if that was convenient. Mr N said this would be 
perfect. However, on 12 October 2015  Mr N emailed the adviser  to ask whether they could 
instead meet  at the caf because he had builders in. The adviser replied:
Sure no problem. Are you happy to meet  at [the caf], or somewhere quieter! I could see if 
l could get a room at the local Barclays branch, whichever suits you best.
However, it appears Mr N was happy to have the meeting in the caf. I appreciate that with 
hindsight Mr N feels the caf wasnt a suitable environment  to have the meeting. But from 
the evidence Ive seen, the meeting took place at the cafe because Mr N suggested  it. Its 
clear from the emails Ive seen that the adviser was happy to meet  elsewhere  and gave  Mr N 
the opportunity  to choose the venue. So, I dont think it was unreasonable  that the meeting 
took place at the caf.
Mr Ns vulnerabilities
Mr N says Barclays didnt treat him fairly  because it didnt  recognise he was a vulnerable 
customer due to his language skills and that he was losing his job and income.
Ive already addressed the concerns Mr N has raised about Barclays failing to communicate 
with him in French in my provisional decision. I said Mr N hadnt  raised  this issue before he 
complained. And If Mr N didnt understand things  fully because of his language skills, 
Ref: DRN05453516I wouldve  expected  him to ask for further  information or ask for documents  to be translated. 
I said Mr N communicated with Barclays in English throughout his relationship with it and 
I was satisfied Barclays wouldve made alternative arrangements  if Mr N had expressed that 
he preferred to correspond in French.  I dont see any reason to depart from this conclusion  
now.
Regarding Mr Ns financial  circumstances,  according to the notes  and emails  Ive seen Mr N 
was in the process of selling his company for between  £3,000,000 and £4,000,000  and he 
was looking to invest around £3,000,000 of this with Barclays. The adviser also made the 
following notes in the meeting of 13 October  2015:
[Mr N] also confirmed that he currently has sufficient cash  balances and liquidity in France 
and Switzerland to negate the need to make  withdrawals from his investments with us.
[Mr N] has access  to sufficient income  and cash assets outside of his assets  with Barclays 
and is not initially  seeking an income  from the investment.
So, I think Mr N made it clear he had access to sufficient income, despite selling his 
company. And I dont  think Mr N gave  the adviser any reason to believe he was experiencing 
stress about  losing his job. For this reason, I dont think Barclays failed  to take into account 
any vulnerability.
mistakes made in the fact-finding  process
It has already been explained to Mr N that I wont be considering the information the adviser  
gathered during the fact-finding process.  This is effectively  an allegation of mis-selling,  that 
the adviser didnt  fully understand  Mr Ns needs  and so couldnt have made a suitable 
recommendation. If Mr N wishes to complain about  this hell need  to refer this to Barclays.
Mr N says that any mistakes should lead me to question the reliability of the advisers notes 
 particularly that the fee schedule was given  to him in the meeting on 13 October 2015. But 
as Ive said in my provisional  decision, I think Mr N was most  likely given the fee schedule  at 
this meeting not only because it is recorded  as such  in the advisers meeting notes, but 
because its also referenced in the suitability letter.
whether the adviser was restricted or independent
This requirement was incorporated into COBS following the RDR. The rule intends to ensure 
that customers know whether the advisers  theyre dealing with are independent (and so are 
able to recommend  products provided  by a range of providers) or whether theyre tied to 
particular businesses. I havent seen any evidence specifically that the Barclays  adviser 
made Mr N aware he was a restricted adviser.  But I think  Mr N wouldve understood the 
adviser would  only be able to recommend Barclays products. And in any case, I dont think 
the absence of this confirmation has an impact on the description of the fees, which  is the 
crux of Mr Ns complaint.
Ref: DRN05453517suitability letter
Mr N has made me aware that his version  of the suitability  letter  is dated 23 November 2015. 
However, the copy Barclays sent to us is dated 22 November  2015. Im satisfied that both 
letters are identical,  except for the date, so I dont think  this raises any concerns about 
whether the content of the letter can be relied  on.
Mr N is also unhappy that this letter refers to the fee schedule, rather  than, Schedule of 
Fees Discretionary Portfolio Management. But I think its clear  this is the fee schedule  that 
the suitability letter refers to. The DPM service is the only investment discussed in the letter.  
So, I dont think it makes  a difference that it isnt referred to by its full title.
Mr Ns request for the fee structure in November 2017
Mr N said he asked the adviser for details of the full fee structure he was being charged by 
email. However, the adviser replied only disclosing the 0.95% annual management charge. 
He said this wasnt clear, fair or not misleading.  This is the first time Mr N has raised this 
issue. It isnt something that Barclays addressed in its final response letter of 6 August 2018.  
So, Im not considering this in my decision.  If Mr N wishes to complain about this specific 
issue, hell need to raise it with Barclays first.
the reason why Barclays paid Mr N £150
Ive said Barclays paid Mr N £150 to compensate him for the delays in setting  up his 
accounts and it refunded  insurance fees associated with the packaged bank account. 
However, Mr N says the actual reason for the payment  was because he threatened to leave 
Barclays. Its clear  Mr N was frustrated  with the issues  he was encountering at this time and 
I accept he threatened  to close his accounts with Barclays. Its possible Barclays  paid Mr N 
this sum because of this, but on balance I think it was because  he experienced genuine 
issues with his banking  arrangements  that Barclays felt he should  be compensated for.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05453518extract from provisional decision
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not inclined to uphold it. Although Im reaching 
the same outcome as the investigator,  I wish to address  some  of the issues Mr N raised after the 
investigator gave his opinion on the complaint. This gives Mr N an opportunity to respond before  
I make  my final decision.
Mr N has made  considerable submissions in bringing  his complaint to our service. And whilst I dont 
intent to respond in similar detail, I have read everything hes sent in and taken  it into consideration  
when making my decision. So if there is a particular  piece  of evidence or point that I dont refer to in 
this decision, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain  my decision. I hope Mr N doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection 
of the informal  nature  of our service.
As Mr N has raised  a number of concerns, I will address  each in turn.
fees associated with the DPM  service
Mr N was advised  to invest in the DPM service in October 2015. Hes said that the information given 
by Barclays regarding  the fees payable was in breach  of a number of regulations and laws.
At this time, the relevant regulations were the FCA Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS),  the 
Principles for Business (PRIN  2) and the Retail Distribution Review (RDR).  COBS 4.2.1. says that a 
firm must ensure  that a communication is fair, clear and not misleading.  PRIN 2.1.1(7)  says a firm 
must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a 
way which is clear, fair and not misleading.  The RDR  led to changes  in the ongoing charges on 
investments funds, to help make it clearer to consumers  how much they were  being  charged and for 
what. Mr N has also referenced the Markets in Financial  Instruments Directive (MiFID) I, which is the 
EU Directive the FCA incorporated into COBS in 2007. Mr N also has also referenced MiFID II but this 
doesnt apply as this didnt take effect  until 3 January 2018.
Ive considered the information Mr N was provided  with and whether  this was communicated in line 
with the above regulations.
Mr N says the only information he was given about the fees was in the presentation  document  and the 
email exchange with Mr L. But on balance, Im persuaded Mr N was given a copy  of Barclays 
Schedule of Fees  for the DPM service at the time. I say this because Mr Ls notes from the meeting 
with Mr N on 13 October 2015 say Mr N was given this as well as the presentation document. Ive 
also seen a copy  of the suitability letter dated 22 November 2015. This says as follows:
FEES
As previously  explained, the Discretionary Portfolio management Service is subject to an Annual 
Management Fee. Fees are billed  quarterly  in arrears based on portfolio  value. This is detailed in the 
fee schedule previously provided to you. Please contact me at any time if you require another copy of 
the fee schedule or you have any questions about how charges  are applied  to this Service.
I know Mr N says he wasnt given  a copy of the fee schedule. But Barclays has provided two separate  
documents confirming he was. Im also mindful  that the suitability letter told Mr N to contact Mr L if he 
needed another copy  of the fee schedule  or if he had any questions. But I note Mr N didnt raise  any 
concerns about the fees charged  until 2017. If Mr N hadnt been given a copy of the fee schedule, 
I think  he wouldve raised concerns on receipt of the suitability letter.  As he didnt, I think  its more  
likely than not he received  the fee schedule in October 2015.
Ref: DRN05453519The fee schedule  set out the Annual  Management Fees  and Additional costs. The annual 
management fee was described as a percentage of the portfolio  balance.  This would be 1.25% on the 
first £1,000,000 and 1.00% on the next £2,000,000  a working example was given. Under this it said:
Additional costs
Government levies  and taxes.
Third-party brokerage costs.
Product costs such as annual management charges for funds.
Re-registration  if we are asked to transfer holdings out of our nominee, we will charge a fee 
for each  holding (£50).
Additional charges will apply if we are asked to carry out additional transactional services. For 
example, sending  money from the portfolio to the client at another bank or in another currency (£25).  
We will inform the client of other  charges in advance.
So, I think Mr N wouldve  known he would be charged  fees in addition to the annual  management  
charge, which  included product costs.
Ive also seen  a copy of the presentation  provided  to Mr N, which  he says he received. This referred  
to an all-in-one fee structure, but it contained a section called, Fees and Benchmarks. In this section 
a page was dedicated to Investment Management Fees. This explained what  the annual  
management fee included.  It then said:
The Bank  reserves the right to charge additional fees for any service  it deems  outside those listed 
above. The Bank  will notify clients in writing should this be applicable.
Third party charges  will be passed on.
I dont think the use of the term all-in-one fee structure was misleading. I know Mr N took this to 
mean that one fee was payable, but I dont  think  this was a reasonable interpretation given the 
detailed page describing the fees applicable and the information provided in the fee schedule. And 
I dont think the information provided  was in breach  of the principles set out in COBS or PRIN 2.
Mr N has referred  to his emails with Mr L, which he thinks were  misleading and demonstrated he 
didnt fully understand the fees.
Ive seen an email chain that started on 1 October 2015. Mr N said he hadnt received any information 
about the fees Barclays  would charge. Barclays replied attaching the fee schedule  for its Investment  
Advisory Service, but said he needed  to agree  an investment  strategy before it would know what  fees 
he would be charged. Mr N replied saying he wasnt  sure he understood all the fees but they could 
talk about it later.
I dont think it was unreasonable that Barclays didnt  provide details of the DPM  service  fees at this 
point. This was before  the meeting took place on 13 October 2015 and before the investment strategy  
was decided. As Barclays charges different fees for different services, I dont think  it needed to tell 
him about the DPM service fees until this option was presented to him in the meeting. And while Mr N 
said he didnt understand the fees, he didnt  say this was because  of his language skills  and he was 
happy to discuss this further  in the meeting.
Mr N then sent an email on 17 October 2015. He said hed had time to read all of the information  hed 
been given at the meeting  and asked if Barclays could  do something about the fee as he also had an 
offer from another investment provider, which was cheaper. Mr L replied on 19 October  2015 saying 
he might be able to offer a flat 1% fee across the discretionary portfolio.  Mr L later confirmed it could 
offer Mr N a management fee of 1%. On 20 October 2015,  Mr L contacted Mr N to advise that 
because of the delays in opening his account, Barclays  could reduce the management fee to 0.95% 
on the portfolio with no VAT deducted. Mr N responded  the same day to thank him and to accept  the 
offer.
Ref: DRN054535110Mr N believes the terminology used by Mr L was misleading, and it was clear he didnt understand the 
fee structure. But I dont agree. Mr N started the conversation by saying hed read all of the 
information provided  to him in the meeting.  As Ive said above, I think  this included the fee schedule 
as well as the presentation. And I think the fees were clearly described in these  documents. I dont 
think Mr Ls responses gave Mr N the expectation that the only fee charged would be 0.95% across 
the portfolio. He specifically said the management fee on two occasions. I believe when he said flat 
1% fee, the use of flat was to explain that 1% would be charged across the whole  portfolio. This was 
instead of the usual fee it charged of 1.25% on the first £1,000,000 and 1.00% on the next 
£2,000,000, as explained in the presentation and fee schedule.
I realise Mr N appears to have misunderstood  the fees he would be charged, but I dont think  I can 
hold Barclays responsible for this. Mr N says his language skills werent taken into account, but I cant  
see that he raised this as an issue before he complained. If Mr N didnt understand things fully, 
I wouldve expected  him to ask for further information  or ask for documents  to be translated. But he 
communicated with Barclays in English throughout his relationship with it. Im satisfied if Mr N had 
expressed that he was having difficulty understanding things, Barclays wouldve made alternative 
arrangements. But I cant see that he did this at the time, so I dont think Barclays treated him unfairly  
in this regard.
Overall, Im satisfied the information Barclays provided  Mr N with about  the fees he would be charged 
was clear, fair and not misleading.
Barclays failure to provide an initial disclosure document
Mr N believes Barclays shouldve  provided  him with an initial disclosure document. He said he 
received a costs and charges disclosure in April 2018 and feels this is much clearer. Ive seen this 
document and agree it details Mr Ns anticipated costs and charges  more  clearly.  However, 
I understand that providing this information in this format became a requirement  after MiFID II came 
into force. MiFID II required firms to provide a full breakdown of all fees and charges related to an 
investment, both before the investment decision is made and on an ongoing basis. As MiFID  II didnt 
take effect until 3 January  2018, I dont think it was unreasonable that Barclays didnt provide this 
information when Mr N took out the DPM service in October 2015. As Ive said above,  I think  Barclays 
provided Mr N with sufficient information about the fees and charges at the time.
other concerns raised by Mr N including account delays, problems with mobile  banking and Smart 
Investor issues
Mr N has periodically raised these concerns with Barclays and in response to the investigators 
opinion. However, I believe  he raised  these concerns with our service  to demonstrate his point about 
Mr L. That is, that he doesnt  believe Mr L is competent.  He says Mr L has misinformed and misled 
him throughout their banking relationship, as demonstrated by the problems  with his accounts. So, he 
thinks it follows that Mr L misled him about the fees.
Barclays explained that it had made a number  of gestures to Mr N to compensate him for these 
issues. I can see from the evidence provided  by Barclays that Mr N accepted these gestures at the 
time and didnt take things further. It was only after discovering the issue with his fees that Mr N 
brought these  concerns up again.
I think  Barclays dealt with these issues as and when they arose fairly. And I can see that Mr N has 
benefitted from the concessions offered, which  included  discounted fees and mortgage products.  
I dont think that the fact these problems  arose should  indicate that Mr L misled Mr N about the fees 
that would be charged on the DPM service. They are separate issues and have been dealt with as 
such. Overall, I havent  seen  anything that would persuade me that Barclays should do any more  to 
put things right in respect of these issues.
Ref: DRN054535111my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not intending  to uphold  Mr Ns complaint.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0545351