K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society has unfairly blocked and then closed his 
account and not given  him a reason for its actions.
background
Mr B said following a complaint he made about  poor service, Nationwide closed his online 
banking, but would only tell him this was for security reasons. Mr B said he hadnt  broken 
any of the terms of his account and Nationwide had acted in bad faith. He said Nationwide  
closed his account because of complaints hes raised and this has caused  him difficulties 
with his payments  and he has to visit the branch to get his money.
Nationwide wrote to Mr B to give him notice of closing his account and said this was 
because of concerns  about the security  of the account. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Nationwide 
followed its procedures and acted  promptly. He said Nationwide is allowed to end its 
relationship with Mr B and hadnt acted unreasonably.
Mr B said the investigator had missed out findings  about another complaint he made about 
Nationwide and the stress hes suffered. He requested that an ombudsman review  his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr B has made other complaints about 
Nationwide, but I have to concentrate on the subject of this complaint which  concerns  the 
closure of Mr Bs account.
Ive looked closely  at Nationwides handling and decisions about Mr Bs account to see if it 
has acted within the terms of the account and treated him fairly.
In common with all banks,  Nationwide  has legal and regulatory obligations which can require 
it to withhold transactions  or services, or block accounts. Our role is to check  whether it 
followed the correct  procedures. From what Ive seen Nationwide  has acted correctly in 
accordance with the terms  of the account and the regulations in blocking and then closing 
Mr Bs account and notified him properly.
Mr B is frustrated  about the lack of information  from Nationwide about its reasons for closing 
his account and thinks it may be because of a separate  complaint he raised. Banks  are not 
generally required to give reasons for closing an account and we cant  compel them  to do 
so. The fact is that just as a consumer can close their account  with a bank, so can a bank 
choose that it no longer wants to do business with a consumer.
I can see the inconvenience that Mr B suffered in having to travel to a branch of Nationwide 
to access his account and he said hes found the whole experience  very stressful.  I 
sympathise with him for this, but I havent found  that Nationwide  has acted in error,  or 
treated him unfairly in closing  his account and so I dont require it to take any action.
Ref: DRN05397882my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0539788