K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss O have  complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under 
their home insurance policy after they suffered an escape of water  at their property.
background
In July 2018, Mr N and Miss O discovered  an escape of water at their house. After arranging  
for the leak to be fixed, they made a claim under their policy for repair  of the damage which  
had been caused to their hallway, utility room and study.
AXA arranged for a surveyor to visit the property, following which it arranged for the property 
to be stripped out and dried.  The surveyor estimated the repairs would cost £2,013. AXA 
therefore arranged  for this amount,  less the policy excess, to be paid to Mr N and Miss O.
Mr N and Miss O didnt  accept the payment. They obtained a quote for the repair  work which 
put the cost at over £10,000.
In October  2018, in view of the discrepancy between the two figures,  and once the drying 
was complete, AXA arranged for its loss adjuster (which Ill call C) to visit the property. 
C agreed that the surveyor had significantly underestimated the cost of repair. In 
November 2018,  based on Cs advice, AXA agreed  to pay a cash  settlement in line with the 
quotes obtained by Mr N and Miss O.
Before the work started,  AXA arranged  for some  furniture in Mr N and Miss Os house to be 
removed and stored. When the work  was completed, AXA arranged  for the furniture to be 
returned. However, Mr N and Miss O found  that some items had been damaged. They  
complained to AXA about this and about  its overall handling of the claim.
AXA agreed to pay for the replacement of the damaged items. It also acknowledged  it could 
have handled  the claim better. It offered £500  compensation.
Mr N and Miss O were  unhappy at AXAs response  and so referred the complaint to us. 
They considered that AXA should  have appointed  C at the start of the claim. They said there 
had been a lack of management of the claim by AXA and poor communication  throughout 
which had led to them having to chase progress continually. They  said the very low cash  
settlement offer made by AXAs  surveyor  had caused them  stress  as they believed they 
might have to foot the majority of the repair cost themselves.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
AXA has acknowledged  it could have handled the claim  better. It seems  that the problems 
in the claim largely  occurred in the first two months  or so, before C was appointed. During 
this time, there was a gap of nearly eight weeks between the claim being  reported and 
drying being started; I think this could  have been shorter. Also,  the surveyor  made a cash  
settlement offer which  hugely underestimated  the cost of repair; I imagine  that this would 
have caused Mr N and Miss O to worry that they might be faced with having  to bear the 
majority of the costs themselves. It also appears  that it was during  this period that Mr N and 
Miss Os furniture  was damaged, though  this wasnt identified  until later.
Ref: DRN03934752After C was appointed, it seems to me that the claim was handled  reasonably well. A cash  
settlement based  on the quotes obtained  by Mr N and Miss O was agreed within  a 
reasonable timescale. The cash  settlement was paid in November 2018.  Mr N and Miss O 
chose not to start the repair work until January 2019  but I cant hold AXA responsible for this 
delay. When furniture  which had been removed and stored  was later returned to their home, 
some items were  noted to have been  damaged. However, AXA agreed  to pay to replace 
these items  and its settlement included the cost of assembly. I consider that this was fair.
I recognise that Mr N and Miss O have  found  the claim very inconvenient and stressful.  
However, an escape of water claim such as this inevitably takes time to resolve  and can be 
expected to cause a degree of disruption. AXA has acknowledged that it perhaps should  
have appointed C from the start and this may have avoided some of the problems which 
Mr N and Miss O experienced.  It has offered £500 compensation. I consider that, taking 
everything into account, this is reasonable. It is similar to the amount which I would likely 
have awarded  had AXA not made its offer. I therefore consider that AXA has acted fairly and 
I dont consider it needs to pay anything more.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr N and Miss O said they were disappointed  with the decision.  They  felt the decision didnt 
take into account the full impact which the claim had had on their lives. They referred  to the 
sleepless nights, stress  and anxiety theyd had to endure,  as well as the amount of time they 
had needed to spend on dealing with the claim. They considered that this distress and 
inconvenience went on for months longer  than necessary due to AXAs  poor handling and 
that £500 was insufficient  compensation  for this.
AXA did not offer any comment  on my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should not be upheld.
I appreciate that Mr N and Miss O went through a very stressful experience.  And while an 
escape of water claim such as this would inevitably cause them disruption, AXAs  poor 
handling made the experience more  stressful  and over a longer period  than would otherwise 
have been the case.
However, I also have to acknowledge that this poor handling was essentially confined  to the 
first two months  or so of the claim. And AXA has already offered £500 compensation for its 
errors.
I have considered Mr N and Miss Os further  comments about how difficult  they found it 
during the period of the claim. I sympathise  with them. However, taking everything into 
account, I still consider  that £500  is an appropriate  level of compensation  for the errors  
which AXA made.
I therefore am satisfied  that my provisional decision should stand.
Ref: DRN03934753my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 August  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0393475