K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains National Westminster Bank  Plc (Nat  West)  allowed a payment to leave his 
account when  he didnt have the funds to cover the payment and the nature of the account  
didnt provide for an overdraft.
background
Mt T came  to us as he was unhappy  with the response hed received from Nat West to his 
complaint. Nat West upheld his complaint  in part. In respect of the call on 26 February  2019  
Nat West said they gave Mr T incorrect information  when  they told him if funds were 
unavailable the payment  he was setting up - for £1000 - would go unpaid. Nat West said this 
was a guaranteed form of payment as it had been set up as a one off faster  payment. And 
that was irrespective of the account  type held. They gave feedback to the colleague 
concerned to ensure any training issues were addressed promptly. But in respect  of the 
payment on 4 March  2019 Nat West didnt think a bank  error had occurred. They  thought the 
payment had been made in line with Mr Ts instructions from 26 February 2019 and his call 
to them  on 2 March  2019 to cancel  it wasnt early enough to allow  the bank to cancel it.
Our investigator thought although Nat West had clearly made some mistakes  and that their 
service had been poor he couldnt say theyd  made  any substantial  mistakes that had 
caused the account to be in the position  it currently stands in. And - whilst he acknowledged  
Mr Ts argument  that this account shouldnt allow payment to go through - he thought  the 
account was in this position  only after Mr T intervened on 4 March 2019 and gave consent 
for the payment to be pushed  through.  The investigator  thought had Mr T told the call 
handler he didnt  wish for the payment  to go through that would have been the end of the 
matter. But ultimately Mr Ts own actions had caused the account  to go overdrawn  as he 
was fully aware at the time he didnt  have the funds  available but still instructed the bank to 
make the payment. 
Mr T didnt  agree. He thought the investigator  hadnt  fully appreciated his complaint. In 
particular he asked for all the calls to be listened  to as those with the complaints team after 
the transaction highlight the basis of his complaint where Nat West have admitted their error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr T had asked to speak with me before I 
reached my final decision, but I didnt think this was necessary. I fully understand the things 
hes unhappy with and theres  enough information  for me to fairly to reach  a final decision. 
And having looked at all of the information Ive come to the conclusion that this complaint  
isnt one which I can fairly and reasonably uphold. Ill explain why.
I think the investigator has given a full and accurate summary of the background to this 
complaint in the letter giving his opinion on 9 April 2019 so I wont repeat that here. Mr T 
thinks the bank  was wrong to allow his payment to go through  given the nature of his 
account a basic account on which no overdraft  is permitted. So he thinks  Nat West should 
pay back the money theyve paid out here - £1000 paid to Mr Ts brother  - along  with 
compensation. But Mr T didnt express  that view  or indeed any concerns about the nature 
of the account  - in his conversation with Nat West  when he authorised  the payment knowing 
the balance on the account  was just over £15 on 4 March 2019. So I find it somewhat 
contradictory that he now takes such a stance.
Ref: DRN06762782When Mr T called the bank on 4 March  2019 - as he thought  his account was overdrawn - he 
was told the payment of £1000 had been  attempted but was on hold/postponed as the 
balance on his account was only £15.48. When the call operative  offered if you want  I can 
still pop that payment through. Mr T agreed. Once the operative  confirmed  the payment 
had gone through Mr T confirmed the recipients details and ended  the call. At no point  did 
he express concerns  and, it seems to me, he actively requested the payment go through 
despite being fully aware of the balance and the nature of his account. Quite what  Mr T 
expected to happen other than an unauthorised overdraft, for which he is now responsible,  
Im not clear.
Although its accepted the bank gave  incorrect  information in the earlier  call on 
26 February 2019  namely if there  were insufficient funds in the account the payment 
wouldnt be made they noted  this and given feedback  and I dont think they need  to do 
anymore.
Mr T says in later calls with B they admitted fault and I should listen to those calls. Im not 
sure if thats in relation to the payment or just the misinformation on 26 February 2019. But I 
dont think it affects the decision I have to make here. What  Im looking at is whether the 
bank did anything wrong in relation to the payment made on 4 March 2019 not whether they 
admitted mistakes in an initial complaint call. Either way, given Mr Ts clear  instructions in 
the call recording of the 4 March 2019 to push the payment through despite the balance, it 
doesnt alter my view that the Nat West have done  nothing substantially wrong here in 
relation to the payment.  So I dont  require them to take any further  action.
Given how strongly Mr T feels  about what happened he may want  to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with Nat West informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0676278