K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank  account, called a FlexPlus account in 2014.
Ms W paid a monthly fee for the account  and received several potential benefits  in return. 
She thinks that Nationwide should  refund her all the fee she paid, plus interest.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ws complaint and didnt think that 
Nationwide had mis-sold the FlexPlus account to her, and didnt recommend that it should  
give her any money back.
Ms W didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Ms Ws case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Ms W and Nationwide  have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
 
I understand that Ms W had banked with Nationwide  for quite a long time before it sold her 
the FlexPlus account. Nationwide has looked  into its records  for her and has told us that she 
opened one of its fee-free accounts in 2006 and then bought  the FlexPlus account  online, 
using its internet banking service,  in 2014.  Ms W seems to have accepted this account  
history and I have taken it to be accurate. 
Ms W has told us that she only bought the FlexPlus account because she thinks Nationwide  
led her to believe that buying  it was the only way she could secure an overdraft.  Shes said 
that Nationwide didnt tell her about an alternative, free account  and that it directly 
marketed (the FlexPlus account) to (her) when she logged on to online banking.  
I accept that Nationwide may well have marketed  the FlexPlus  account  to Ms W. Its entitled  
to promote its products  but it should  do so fairly.  
In 2014, one of the potential benefits  of the FlexPlus account was that it offered customers  
cheaper overdrafts than Nationwide provided  to customers  with fee-free accounts. Although I 
havent seen the specific marketing material which Ms W mentioned,  I accept that this 
material may well have  highlighted  that she could get a cheaper overdraft if she bought  the 
FlexPlus account. However, this isnt the same as telling  her that she could only get an 
overdraft with a FlexPlus  account, which would have  been untrue and unfair. I havent seen 
anything to make me think that Nationwide did this, and I think its unlikely that it did. 
Ms W has also complained that Nationwide  did not find out if the FlexPlus  account was the 
right one for her and that none of its representatives  checked to see if she required any of its 
potential benefits.  I fully accept this, but Nationwide sold the account to Ms W online, which it 
Ref: DRN01802102was allowed to do without  any involvement from a representative and without checking the 
account was right for Ms Ws needs. That wasnt unfair. However,  Nationwide  still had to tell 
Ms W clearly and fairly  about the accounts benefits  and costs,  and give her a choice about 
buying it, so Ive considered how well it did this. 
.
Although I havent  seen  the exact online  screens which  Ms W would have seen in 2014 
(those in use today may be different), I think its highly likely  that they described the potential 
benefits of the FlexPlus  account. After all, Nationwide was trying to sell the account to its 
customers and it would  have been  in its own interests to tell them  what they could  gain by 
buying it.
Similarly, as the fees for the account would appear on Ms Ws bank statements, and in other 
information that Nationwide sent her about the account, I doubt that Nationwide tried to hide 
them from her when  she bought the account online. I think Nationwides  system would have 
told Ms W how much the FlexPlus account  would  cost her. 
And as Ms W had already held a fee-free account for several years before Nationwide  sold 
her the FlexPlus account, I doubt that it denied  her a choice. It seems to me that it allowed 
her the alternative  to keep her fee-free account or to buy the FlexPlus account.
 
I accept that Nationwide may not have got everything right in the way it sold the FlexPlus 
account to Ms W, but I dont think it treated her unfairly.
During our investigation into this complaint,  Ms W has mentioned  that she tried to close the 
account in 2017, but thinks that Nationwide wouldnt let her. Shes told us that Nationwide 
keeps her locked into the account  and keeps charging her for it. She hasnt said a great 
deal about this and I dont  think she has raised  it directly with Nationwide.  So I havent 
considered this point  in this decision. This means that if Ms W wishes,  she is still free to 
raise it with Nationwide.  She may then be able to bring any complaint to us, but I cant  
advise her what to do or suggest how Nationwide may respond.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ws complaint about  
Nationwide Building  Society. I am not going  to tell it to give her any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0180210