K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about costs theyve incurred  due to incorrect information from 
Barclays Bank Plc. They also complain that the bank presented  changes  to its stockbroking 
fee structure in a way that was misleading, and didnt point out fundamental changes  to its 
service. 
background
Mr and Mrs F had a joint share account  with Barclays. Mrs F also had an account in her sole 
name. In 2017 Barclays told Mr and Mrs F it was transferring its stockbroking service to a 
new platform. Mr and Mrs F realised they would  have  to pay more  in fees if they kept their 
joint account through the new platform, so they wanted to convert it to a sole account for 
Mr F.
Barclays gave Mr and Mrs F incorrect information about the extent to which this could be 
done and they complained to this service. 
I issued a decision on that complaint in July 2018.  I said Barclays shouldve told 
Mr and Mrs F that it wasnt possible to convert  the joint account to an account in Mr Fs sole 
name as theyd planned. It shouldve also told them that some  of their shares couldnt be 
transferred to Mr Fs sole name.
Barclays paid £200 in compensation and also refunded fees that Mr and Mrs F had paid.
But while that complaint was ongoing, Mr and Mrs F said theyd  had to pay additional costs 
because of the wrong information Barclays had given them.  They wanted to transfer  the 
remaining shares out of the joint account  and close it. But they were told they could only do 
this by selling the shares.  They say they will have to pay capital gains tax (CGT)  on the sale 
of the shares.  
Mr and Mrs F made a separate complaint to Barclays,  which was then referred to this 
service. Mr and Mrs F also complained that changes to Barclays stockbroking  fee structure 
had been presented in a way that was misleading. They also considered withdrawal of the 
facility to transfer shares between spouses shouldve been  pointed out to them before the 
platform changed.
Barclays apologised for not pointing out the change  Mr F had referred to, and acknowledged 
that it had incorrectly  recorded Mr Fs date of birth. It offered £200 compensation, which  
Mr and Mrs F didnt  accept.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays needed to do anything else.  He concluded that 
Mr and Mrs Fs new broker couldnt  accept  a direct transfer of the shares,  which was why 
they had to be sold. So he wasnt persuaded that Barclays was responsible for the CGT 
Mr and Mrs F had to pay.
The investigator found that the terms and conditions for the new platform didnt allow  for 
transfers between  spouses. But the investigator didnt consider this was something that 
Barclays shouldve pointed out to Mr and Mrs F. He thought  it was something Mr and Mrs F 
shouldve checked  with Barclays if they were  concerned about  it.
Ref: DRN01096182Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  with the investigators  conclusions so the complaint has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs F have been  waiting  some  time for this decision and I am grateful 
to them  for their patience. 
In Mr and Mrs Fs other complaint I decided Barclays shouldve told them that it wasnt 
possible to convert their joint account to an account  in Mr Fs sole name.  I said that if theyd  
been given correct information at the outset, its likely they wouldve closed the account  and 
transferred to another broker at that point.
So Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs F wouldve been able to transfer their shares 
directly to their new broker.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Fs complaint,  and after making further enquiries with both 
Barclays and Mr and Mrs Fs new broker, I havent  been able to safely  conclude that the 
failure to make a direct transfer of the shares  was the fault of Barclays.  
So even if Barclays had given Mr and Mrs F the correct information from the outset, I havent 
been able to safely conclude that they wouldve been able to transfer the shares directly to 
their new broker.  
It follows that I dont think Barclays is responsible  for any CGT arising from the sale of the 
shares.
Mr and Mrs F feel strongly that Barclays shouldve told them that its new service didnt 
include the ability to transfer assets between spouses. They  consider this is a usual part of a 
stockbroking service, so Barclays shouldve pointed out if it wasnt available. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs F might  take that view, as theyd used the service  several  times  
to manage their tax liability. 
I accept that the transfer between spouses  service isnt specifically mentioned in the 
summary section  of the Smart Investor brochure. This set out key information about 
Barclays new service, and what was changing.
I think its reasonable for the brochure  to cover the main features of Barclays new service. 
But I wouldnt expect the list of services and changes set out in the brochure  to be 
exhaustive. 
If the transfer between  spouses service is a main  feature of stockbroking (as Mr and Mrs F 
suggest) I wouldve expected  it to have been  included  in the summary. As it wasnt - and if it 
was particularly important  to Mr and Mrs F - I think it wouldve been reasonable for them to 
check with Barclays whether it was still offering the service.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Barclays was at fault because it didnt point out that it was 
withdrawing the service  that allowed transfer of assets between spouses.  
Ref: DRN01096183Barclays accepted  that some  of its service couldve been better, and offered £200 
compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable, but I dont think  Barclays  needs to do 
anything else.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  Plc should  pay £200 to Mr and Mrs F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0109618