K820x#14complaint
Miss J is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plcs (RSA) handling of her claim 
under her buildings  insurance policy. 
When I refer to RSA, Im also referring  to any of their appointed agents  or representatives.
background
In October  2017 there was a leak in Miss Js bathroom. The leak caused damage to the 
bathroom and to some parts of the kitchen beneath it. Miss J made a claim to RSA.
RSA accepted the claim. Miss J was asked to provide  an estimate for the repair  work, and 
RSA asked their own contractors to provide an estimate. There  was significant difference  
between the two. Miss Js estimate included the cost to replace the entire  kitchen, as some 
of the undamaged items couldnt  be matched.  Her estimate was for approx. £57,000.
RSAs estimate was for £24,118.75. This included repair to the bathroom  and the damaged 
items in the kitchen.  It also included a 50% contribution for Miss J to replace the undamaged 
parts of her kitchen.  This amount, minus  Miss Js policy excess of £100, was cash  settled to 
Miss J in January 2018.
Miss J has a disability, and, because of the damaged areas,  Miss J and her family needed to 
live elsewhere. She decided to stay with her parents and RSA originally offered 
Miss J a total of £25 per day disturbance allowance for her, her partner and her child.  Miss J 
wanted £80 per day, but RSA didnt  agree  to this. They increased their payment to a total of 
£40 per day instead.
Unhappy with the cash settlement, having  to accept a mis-matched kitchen and the amount 
offered per day, Miss J complained to RSA. RSA didnt  uphold Miss Js complaint. They  said 
that their cash settlement  was fair based  on the work that needed  to be done.  And they said 
they wouldnt increase their payment  per day for Miss J and her family  while  they were living 
elsewhere. Regarding  Miss Js kitchen not matching,  RSA told her that her policy  didnt 
cover any undamaged items and they were  offering 50% as that is what this service 
recommends.
Miss J wasnt happy about this and complained to our service.  Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint.  She said that RSAs  offer to contribute 50% to replace the undamaged  items  
was fair. She also said £40 per day in total was a reasonable amount for Miss J to receive. 
Lastly, she said the cash settlement was in line with the estimates RSA had received  and 
was a fair one.
Miss J didnt  accept this. She was unhappy about the kitchen replacements  as she had a 
bespoke kitchen made to fit her disability and didnt want a mis-matched kitchen. She was 
concerned that there hadnt  been  any discussion about her dishwasher, which  wasnt 
working following  the leak. She also didnt agree that the disturbance  allowance  costs were 
fair. Furthermore, she mentioned that the granite top in the kitchen was dropping.  Miss J 
also asked for a full breakdown of the costs RSA had accounted  for when calculating  the 
kitchen settlement. 
Another investigator at our service picked up the complaint. She spoke to Miss J and RSA 
about the outstanding  issues  with the claim. RSA reattended Miss Js house to assess the 
Ref: DRN03010602damage to the granite worktop and the dishwasher. It was decided  that the granite worktop 
would need to be replaced,  rather than removed and refitted. A further  cash  settlement was 
made to Miss J for this. It was also agreed  that the dishwasher wasnt  working,  and Miss J 
was asked to provide  RSA with estimates for that.
Our investigator explained this to Miss J. The remaining  things outstanding were  RSAs 
contribution for the undamaged items  in the kitchen, the amount paid to Miss J and her 
family while she stayed  with her parents and RSAs  decision not to provide a detailed 
breakdown of their settlement, including contractor  costs to do the work.
As these  things havent been agreed  on, the complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking RSA to 
do anything. Ill explain why.
When RSA initially visited Miss Js house to assess the damage,  they gave her three options 
for getting the repairs done. They explained  that they could appoint their own contractors to 
complete the work, Miss J could  appoint her own contractor, or she could  accept a cash 
settlement for the damage and arrange  for the work to be carried out herself.  Miss J already 
had a builder that she trusted,  so she chose to accept a cash  settlement.
Miss Js policy  explains  how RSA will settle a claim in these  circumstances. It explains that 
RSA has a network of preferred suppliers who they use to repair or replace damaged 
property. It also explains that, if cash settlement is chosen as a settlement option, RSA will 
only pay what it would cost them to repair or replace the damaged property using their 
preferred suppliers.
RSA has provided the scope of works  to Miss J along with a detailed  breakdown of how the 
cash settlement has been worked out. It hasnt  provided Miss J with a detailed  breakdown  of 
its contractors charges for the work, which Miss J would like to see. I think RSA has acted 
reasonably here. They have  negotiated  their own contractor  rates  for their claims work and 
that is commercially sensitive information  for RSA. I dont think  they need to share  this with 
Miss J. And, from the information I have seen,  I have no reason to believe that RSA couldnt 
get the work  done for the amount theyve paid as a cash settlement.
Miss Js policy  also explains that RSA will not cover any undamaged  items  that are part of a 
matching set or suite. In Miss Js case,  this is her kitchen units. Some were damaged as a 
result of the leak, and some of the units  and granite worktops were  undamaged. RSA has 
paid Miss J 50% of what it would  cost for her to replace  the undamaged areas of her kitchen, 
which is in line with what our service expects.
Miss J has made the point  that she doesnt know how the 50% cash  settlement has been 
worked out as she doesnt feel she can get the units for that amount. Shes also mentioned 
that she has a bespoke kitchen fitted for her disability  and its unreasonable  of RSA to 
expect her to accept a mis-matched kitchen. Ill discuss the 50% settlement first.
Miss J provided RSA with a quote  for a new kitchen when she provided her own estimate for 
the repairs that she said were required.  RSA have used that estimate  to determine the cost 
of each undamaged item and then halved  that cost.  Our service understands that consumers 
Ref: DRN03010603will be unhappy that their items will no longer match  and think people should be 
compensated for a loss of match or given a contribution  towards the costs of replacing the 
undamaged items. RSAs  settlement  of £7,853.41 is 50% of the undamaged items based  on 
the estimate Ive seen.  This is what Id expect RSA to offer so Im satisfied their settlement is 
fair.
Regarding Miss Js kitchen and the alterations - she had to ensure it was suitable for her use 
alongside her disability - I understand her point that a mis-matched kitchen would be 
unacceptable. But I havent  seen  anything from Miss J or RSA to suggest  that the kitchen 
wont be able to be used  as it was before the leak occurred. So, while it might not match  it 
will be usable. RSA are expected to put Miss J back into the same position as she was in 
before the claim occurred,  for the items  that are covered by her policy.  And from what Ive 
seen, RSAs cash settlement allows Miss J to have full use of her kitchen again. I wont be 
asking them to do anything further  here. 
The final point Miss J remains  unhappy about  is the amount RSA offered her while  she was 
having to stay at her parents. Miss J has said that the kitchen at her parents wasnt suitable 
for her to use, and her mother  uses one of the rooms for work  purposes so had been put to 
an inconvenience. Miss J thought RSA should pay her £80 per day for the duration  of her 
stay. RSA paid her £40 in total. I need to decide if I think  thats a fair amount. In this case I 
think it is.
Miss J initially indicated  that shed be prepared to stay in a hotel while  the work was being 
done. Shed  found a local hotel that was suitable and close  enough to enable  Miss Js child 
to get to and from school.  But the hotel couldnt  accommodate Miss J and her family for the 
entire duration, and they would have needed  to move to an alternative hotel at a later date. 
Because of this, Miss J decided to stay at her parents. RSA offered to pay Miss J £40 for the 
time she was at her parents, to allow for inconvenience and additional food expenses as 
Miss J couldnt use the kitchen. They  didnt  increase  this for Miss Js mums inconvenience, 
and nor did our investigator. I agree with this. Miss J would have known that moving  in with 
her parents  would bring some upheaval and inconvenience with it. Also,  her policy  only 
covers for the inconvenience caused to her and anyone living  at the damaged house, not for 
any other family members.
I think £40 per day is enough for Miss J and her family to eat and to deal with any 
inconvenience as a result. Most  claims of this nature come with a degree of inconvenience  
and, whilst Miss J may have experienced more because of her disability and the suitability of 
the accommodation, RSAs offer was a reasonable one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0301060