K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited charged her for motor legal 
protection insurance as part of her car insurance.  
background
In 2018 Miss S received  renewal documents from Admiral for her car insurance. She went 
online and checked  what quotes she could achieve  and then phoned Admiral  to discuss the 
cost. Initially Miss S was happy that Admiral reduced the cost of her premium but on 
receiving her policy documents was unhappy  that shed been charged for Motor Legal 
Protection (MLP) insurance  which she said she didnt agree to. Miss S was also unhappy 
shed been charged for MLP the previous  year. 
On reviewing her complaint Admiral said that MLP was discussed during the call Miss S had 
with them   but they dont  agree the call handler said this would be free. However  Admiral  
refunded Miss Ss MLP premiums as a gesture of goodwill.  
One of our investigators  looked at Miss Ss complaint  and thought that Admiral didnt need to 
do anymore. 
Miss S didnt agree with the view. Her main points were:
-She didnt ask for MLP to be included in her policy and made this clear at the sale.
-On receiving her 2018 policy documents she raised her concerns with Admiral 
immediately, and wouldnt have  been required to do this if they hadnt added  MLP to 
her policy  without  her consent.
-Consumers shouldnt  be expected to check documents if insurers  add products 
without their consent.
As Miss S didnt agree  its been  passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I dont think Admiral need  
to do anything more.  Ill explain  my reasons below. 
Ive listened to the phone call Miss S had with Admiral to renew her car insurance  policy. 
The call handler tells Miss S that MLP and breakdown cover were  included in her 2017 
policy. Miss S queries having MLP on her policy and says she cant  remember  agreeing to 
this in 2017. The call handler explains theyll have a look at the best price they can do for 
Miss S  which is £694  and confirms this is keeping everything  the same  as in 2017.  
Miss S asks whether thats with the legal as well?  and the call handler confirms it is. Miss S 
then agrees to this. So Im satisfied Miss S confirmed she wanted  MLP on her policy.  Even if 
this wasnt the case, Admiral has since refunded  the cost of the MLP. 
Ive also considered whether Miss S agreed to have MLP on her policy in 2017. Admiral  has 
advised that Miss S took out this policy online.  The Financial Conduct Authoritys 
regulations, Insurance Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (ICOBS), say insurers need  to 
Ref: DRN02046322ensure that a customer is given appropriate  information about a policy in good time and in a 
comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed.  Ive looked at a copy of Miss Ss motor  policy  schedule  dated the 
6 March 2017  and MLP is listed as a policy upgrade costing £27.23. Miss S hasnt  
disputed receiving the policy documents and the top of the schedule  says please  check this 
document carefully and if anything is incorrect, call us. 
In issuing the policy schedule Im satisfied  that Admiral followed the regulations in ICOBS,  
and I think that Miss S was given the opportunity to query the MLP or any other  element of 
the policy she was unhappy with  and this didnt happen.
Miss S says that a consumer shouldnt be in a position where theyre required to check  
documents in case an insurer  has added products without their consent. Ive considered 
Miss Ss argument, and I understand her position.  But in the absence  of any evidence 
indicating Miss S didnt  ask for MLP to be added in 2017, Im satisfied its more likely than 
not Miss S asked for MLP to be included in her policy.  Even  if this isnt the case, as Miss S 
was provided with her policy schedule she was given the opportunity  to challenge this. 
In conclusion I dont  think Admiral need to do anything more here. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0204632