K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the repairs done  by Allianz  Insurance Plc following a home  insurance  
claim for water damage to his home.
background
In September  2017 Mr S had a water leak in his home which damaged the bathroom  and the 
lounge ceiling. Allianz accepted the claim and appointed  contractors to carry out the work. 
Mr S was dissatisfied with the way the work  was carried out and asked for the contractors to 
be taken off the job. He was persuaded to continue with their services.  But he wasnt  
satisfied with the standard of work, and the contractors  damaged several items. He didnt 
want the contractors  back and asked Allianz to review a number of items  of damage or poor 
work. He agreed with the contractors that he would receive a payment of £430  for various 
items in the bathroom and £795  for a damaged carpet. 
Mr S complained of initial delays and poor workmanship, and in January 2018 Allianz agreed 
to pay him £200  for the stress and inconvenience  caused. Mr S raised  some  further  
outstanding issues  in June 2018. Later  in September 2018, Allianz visited  the property and in 
October reviewed the outstanding items. It said it would pay Mr S £2,000, this included  the 
agreed cash payments.  Mr S said this wasnt sufficient and that some items on a final faults list 
he had drawn up hadnt  been considered.  Allianz  said that the full list had been considered 
and reviewed by its contractors and loss adjusters. It duly made the payment offered. 
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that an independent expert be appointed 
at Allianzs expense to assess  the outstanding  work and set a figure for it. She further  
proposed that Allianz pay further  compensation of £150 for the delays in assessing the 
outstanding work.
Allianz disagreed   it pointed out that Mr S hadnt  provided any details of his expenditure 
and it said it had already assessed the amount payable. This had been done by the loss 
adjuster, the contractors  appointed, and the Contractor Liaison Managers,  all of whom  
agreed that a fair figure had been  paid for the outstanding items.
I issued a provisional decision. I agreed with the proposed compensation award  but I didnt 
think that an independent expert was necessary. I thought that from considering Mr Ss list 
the £2.000 paid appeared to me to be fair. But I was concerned  to see that Mr S received a 
fair payment so I said that if he could produce  evidence to me of what he has spent, or 
needs to spend, in response to my provisional decision, by way of receipts and/or estimates, 
I would consider them.
In response Mr S produced a quote  of £1,100 to carry out the work  in the bathroom. He said 
that a skip would need to be hired at a cost of £300. I put it to Allianz that, as its estimated 
cost for the remaining  work was £775, it should  pay a further £325, plus the skip hire  a 
total of £625. Allianz agreed  to that.
Mr S said that the materials  would  cost about £650 and the remaining work he would 
estimate at £1,000.  He further continues  to dispute that the bathroom  flooring timbers were 
replaced and believes  the cost of those should be taken into account.
Ref: DRN06876802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
Ive considered Mr Ss list. Aside  from it, the only remaining item which  appears  to be in 
dispute is whether  the contractors replaced the bathroom flooring timbers  in accordance with 
the schedule of works. Allianz said they did, and that the inspection revealed no evidence 
that this didnt happen. The flooring had been  covered up and the small piece of exposed 
floor didnt show old floorboards.  I cant see from the evidence  shown to me, including  
photographs that the flooring wasnt replaced.
I dont think that Allianz dealt with this claim very well. Whilst it has told us it has assessed 
the work  outstanding and given Mr S a global figure,  it hasnt broken down the list so it is 
difficult to see what its offer was for individual items. Or indeed  whether it has assessed  the 
items in that way.
As for the actual list, these items seem to be minor  matters, like cleaning, finishing off the 
decorating, replacing  silicon etc. Ive noted  that Mr S says that he paid a local decorator  to 
clean off the paint from some areas,  and that he had paid someone to clean his sofas  where 
the contractors had walked over them.  Ive seen no details of those payments, which 
presumably Mr S will be able to itemise even if he doesnt have receipts. For the rest of the 
items, Allianz has paid the £1,225 for the bathroom items, including a vanity  unit, shower tray 
and replacement shower jets and for the carpet. This leaves £775 for the remaining items.
Im not inclined to require  Allianz to appoint an independent expert.  Whilst I think  it should 
have broken down  its offer, our purpose is to resolve disputes informally and on a fair and 
reasonable basis. On considering the list, £2,000  appears to me to be a fair offer.
I am however concerned  to see that Mr S gets a fair settlement
There were delays in agreeing the settlement. Mr S first notified Allianz of this in June 2018. 
It took it until October to revisit the property and a further month to make an offer of 
settlement. I agree  with the investigator's  view that it should pay Mr S £150  compensation 
for this
As Allianz  has agreed to pay the further £625 (including the cost of skip hire) I wont make 
any further comment about that part of the work. With regard  to Mr Ss assertion that he 
should be paid more, I should  emphasise  that, given  that he wanted  his own contractors  to 
complete the work it was for him to provide full details of it, including  how much hes paid out 
and any professional estimates  for work. 
Whilst I can see that £300 for hiring a skip is fair, I cant require Allianz to pay any further 
sums without the details  Ive mentioned. All I can say is that Allianz did say that if any further 
work becomes necessary,  it will consider it. Its up to Mr S if he wants  Allianz to consider 
further payments  but he would have to be prepared to provide  evidence of those payments.
Apart from the additional payments Ive outlined, my provisional findings as set out above 
are now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN06876803my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Allianz  to:
pay Mr S a further £650 in respect of the remedial work.
consider if it should make any further  payment if Mr S provides evidence  of it.
pay to Mr S £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0687680