K820x#14complaint
Ms S says that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
In 1999 Ms S took out a mortgage  with BOS. At the same time she took out a PPI policy. 
The policy covered her mortgage payments if she was unable to work  due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Ss complaint  should  be upheld. Ms S disagreed, she says 
she didnt need  the policy. 
So Ms Ss complaint  has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint.
The initial policy  was sold during a meeting with a sales adviser. BOS had to make it clear 
the PPI was optional and not a condition of the lending. Ms S says this wasnt done but 
hasnt given us much detail about  what was said during the meeting to make  her think this. 
But I think thats understandable  as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied  more  on 
what the documents from the sale show.
BOS have given  us a copy  of Ms Ss mortgage and PPI application forms signed by her. I 
can see on the mortgage application  form that theres a separate section  that deals with PPI. 
It gives the option to either select to take PPI or decline it with a tick box next to both options. 
I can see that a tick has been placed in the box to select PPI.
Given the importance of the financial commitment Ms S was making I think its likely she 
read the application form before signing it. And because Ms S signed  the mortgage  
application form after the section on PPI I think its likely  she wouldve seen the different 
options available in relation to PPI and understood  she had a choice in taking it.
And I think Ms S chose to take the policy because I can see that Ms S went  on to complete 
and sign a separate application form. If she didnt want the cover I dont think  she wouldve 
completed an application for it.
BOS advised  Ms S to take PPI. What this means  is that BOS  not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Ms S could make  an 
informed choice about buying  PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable for her needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms S for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN08747942She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been  caught by any 
of the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make  a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Ms S says she was entitled to sick pay and had savings she 
could use to make her mortgage payments  if she was unable to work.  But the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer for up to 12 months  if she was 
unable to work  due to accident or sickness or if she lost her job. And I can see from 
BOSs records  that in 2006 Ms S contacted  BOS  to increase the benefit  under her policy 
as she didnt  think the cover she had in place was sufficient.  
So I think Ms S thought  the policy provided a useful benefit to her in her circumstances 
especially considering  she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think  
she wouldve been interested  in protecting them.  
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Ms S at the time. And 
if she decided  she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Ms S information in a way which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont know if BOS did give all the information as it shouldve.  But for 
the same  reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Ms S has told us about  
her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken  out PPI if BOS had given all 
the proper information.  
This means  Ms S isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint against Bank of Scotland  
plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0874794