K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL wasnt the direct seller in this case,  but it has taken responsibility for the complaint. So 
to avoid confusion  I shall refer to it as the seller.
background
Mrs M took out a store card in 2000. At the same time she bought  a PPI policy which  
wouldve covered  the repayments on her account on her card id she wasnt  able to work.
Mrs M says it wasnt clear  the policy was optional.  She felt pressured to take the PPI 
because she thought the credit was dependent on buying it. She says the main features 
werent disclosed properly  to her.
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complains about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs M doesnt  claim that the PPI was added without  her consent.  She says she was 
pressured into buying it and it wasnt clear it was optional.  
FICL has provided a copy of the credit  agreement Mrs M completed. I can see from this that 
Mrs M was given  a choice about buying  it. She signed separately  to buy it, leaving other  
options for other products  blank. 
Mrs M doesnt  say what happened to make her feel pressured to buy it. But looking at the 
form I think its clear  it was optional. Theres no indication that the credit application would be 
influenced by taking the PPI, either.  So, on the limited information I have available  to me I 
think Mrs M most likely bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it. 
FICL didnt  make a personal recommendation to Mrs M about the PPI so it didnt need  to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it 
gave her all the information  she needed  to make her own decision. I dont think FICL did this 
well enough. For example, theres  no mention  of what the exact benefits or costs were.  
But looking  at Mrs Ms circumstances I dont  think more information wouldve changed her 
mind about  buying  it. I think  its likely Mrs M understood the policy  would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mrs M chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
Ref: DRN02578432It doesnt look like Mrs M was affected by any of the terms which  mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs M.
Mrs M says she was entitled to some  sick pay if she wasnt working. As shed only worked 
for her employer for a few years  I dont think shed have been entitled to much redundancy 
pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay and 
potentially for longer.  Mrs M says she had some  savings too, but Mrs M wouldve had other 
uninsured expenses to cover  if she was off work which she may have needed these for. So I 
think the policy offered  Mrs M a useful benefit. 
The policy was relatively expensive compared to others on the market  around the same  
time. But it offered  a greater benefit  than others, and couldve paid off Mrs Ms entire balance  
in a few months.
So, on balance, I think Mrs M wouldve still bought the policy  if shed understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Mrs M lost out as a result  of anything FICL did wrong.
my final decision
As explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0257843