K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the service provided by Tilney Investment Management 
Services Limited, in particular that it didnt inform them that the fund they invested in was 
being closed and replaced  by an alternative  fund which only provided  dividends every six 
months instead of quarterly. They  are also unhappy  that their bank account  details  didnt 
transfer across when there was a change to the platform  Tilney  provided its service through.
background
In 2018 the original fund Mr and Mrs Ws ISAs  were invested in was closed  and replaced  by 
another fund which paid dividends twice yearly instead of quarterly.  Mr and Mrs W werent 
told the original  fund they were invested  in was closing so were  automatically moved into the 
new fund.
Tilney accepted it shouldve told Mr and Mrs W that the original fund was due to close but I 
issued a provisional decision saying that no loss had been suffered because  I thought  they 
wouldve reinvested in a similar investment with similar risk which  wouldve provided  a 
similar return to the new fund they were put into. But Mr and Mrs W provided evidence they 
reinvested in a fixed rate account  providing  interest at 2% so I issued a second provisional 
decision, a copy  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  In short I made  the 
following findings:
I wasnt satisfied that notice of the closure of the fund shouldve been included  in the 
letter Tilney sent to Mr and Mrs W on 29 June  2018 as Mr W suggested  it shouldve  
done.
The regulator hadnt approved the scheme of arrangement for closure of the original 
fund as at 29 June 2018 and I wouldnt have expected Tilney to notify any customer 
of closure before  approval had been  given.
It is reasonable to have expected  Tilney  to have notified Mr and Mrs W at the same 
time as notice was given  to shareholders being the 2 October 2018.
Mr and Mrs W wouldve come  out of the original fund within  a matter of days if notice 
had been given.
If they had come  out of the original  fund it is more likely than not they wouldve 
reinvested in a fixed rate account  with interest  at 2% as they did in 2019.
It is reasonable to use the average value  of Mr Ws account  and Mrs Ws account in 
the week that notice shouldve  been  given for calculating any loss. This is £73,767 for 
Mr W and £63,672  for Mrs W.
Tilney should add interest at 2% to those figures from 5 October 2018 and if the 
money Mr and Mrs W received in 2019 is less than the average value of each 
account plus interest Tilney has to pay the difference.
Tilney has to pay the £350  it has already  offered for the other service issues  that 
arose with the account.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Tilney didnt provide a response.  Mr W 
responded with regard  to a query about calculation of redress  but didnt say whether my 
provisional decision was agreed or not.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05784912Given neither party  has provided any further information there is no basis for me to change 
the findings in my provisional decision.  I still think that Mr and Mrs W shouldve been 
informed of closure of the original fund on 2 October  2018  when the shareholders were 
contacted and that they wouldve come out of the fund soon after this.
Tilney should calculate  what redress, if any, is payable by comparing what Mr W and Mrs W 
each received when they came out of the original  fund in 2019 with the average  value of 
their accounts - £73,767 for Mr W and £63,672  for Mrs W  plus interest  at 2% as at that 
date. If what they received in 2019 was more then no loss has been suffered but if it less 
Tilney has to pay the difference.
Tilney also has to pay the £350 it offered  for the other service issues.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my provisional 
decision and Tilney  Investment Management Services  Limited  has to calculate redress as 
set out and pay what it calculates  is due to Mr and Mrs W. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05784913COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the service provided by Tilney Investment  Management Services 
Limited, in particular  that it didnt  inform them that the fund they invested in was being closed and 
replaced by an alternative fund which only provided dividends every six months instead of quarterly. 
They are also unhappy  that their bank account details  didnt transfer across when there was a change 
to the platform  Tilney provided  its service through.
background
Mr and Mrs W each had an Individual Savings Account (ISA)  with Tilney invested in the Tilney 
Bestinvest Income  and Growth Fund (the original fund). The accounts were on an execution only 
basis. Tilney  originally provided  the service through Saga but in September 2018 Tilney stopped 
using Saga.
The original fund was closed on 22 October 2018 and replaced by the Tilney Bestinvest  British 
Enhanced Income Fund (the new fund) which pays dividends every six months  on 31 October and 
30 April  instead of quarterly  as the original fund had paid. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I said I thought Tilney shouldve  told Mr and Mrs W 
they were closing the fund they were invested in and noted that Tilney had acknowledged this after 
the complaint was referred to us. I didnt think  Mr and Mrs W wouldve wanted to move into the new 
fund if they had been  made aware  the original fund was closing. I thought they wouldve  come out of 
the original  fund and reinvested.
But I didnt think they had suffered any loss as a result of being placed  in the new fund because I 
thought they wouldve  reinvested  in an investment with similar risk and exposure to the market. Tilney  
had offered £350 for distress  and inconvenience caused by service issues  which Mr W indicated  was 
accepted which I said it should pay. 
Mr W responded and made various points but the key issues were that he and Mrs W had reinvested 
in fixed  rate accounts  with interest at 2%, not Stock market based investments as I had said they 
wouldve done. He also thought that loss should be calculated from July 2018 to January 2019 when 
he was told the dividend payments for the new fund were only twice  a year.
I contacted Mr W to clarify the basis on which  I would  award redress.  I explained this was based on 
him coming out of the original fund before  it closed in October 2018 and reinvesting in something else 
and not the new fund. I said that the value  of the new fund in January 2019 or any other time wasnt 
relevant as he and Mrs W would never have been invested  in that fund. Mr W responded to say he 
agreed. 
He also said there was no reason to think he wouldnt have invested in anything other than fixed rate 
accounts and that the relevant fixed interest rate should be calculated from 23 October  2018.  But 
there was some further email correspondence when Mr W said the date he and Mrs W shouldve 
come out of the original fund was 3 July 2018, which is his current  position.
Tilney provided a notice dated  2 October 2018 from the fund to shareholders notifying them of the 
forthcoming change from the original fund to the new fund. It also provided a list of values for Mr and 
Mrs Ws accounts  from 2 October 2018 through to 22 October 2018 at my request.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05784914There are a number of points Mr W made in response to my provisional decision  and in the course of 
email correspondence that I have not set out as I dont think  they go to the real issues  in this 
complaint. But I think it is important to respond to some of the points he has made.
Firstly I am satisfied that I havent omitted any key part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  or ignored  
anything in favour of Tilney. They have accepted the £350 Tilney  offered in respect of the overall 
service it provided. The remaining issue is in relation  Mr and Mrs W not being  notified about the 
closure of the original fund and I have considered all the evidence in relation to that.
Secondly I have not blindly accepted what Tilney has said about Mr Ws fund value  increasing by 
£4,000 and there  being  no loss as my provisional decision made clear. I have not used that figure to 
suggest there  was no loss. I have not relied upon it at all and made  clear  Tilney  has been unable  to 
provide proof of it. It isnt relevant to any of my key findings. 
Thirdly I have  never said, as Mr W has suggested, that Mr and Mrs W wouldve come out of the 
original fund on 23 or 24 October  2018. It was Mr W who suggested in an email that interest on the 
money they wouldve  received from their accounts if they had been given notice should be calculated 
from 23 October 2018.
One point I should clarify is that I said in my provisional decision that Mr and Mrs W wouldve closed 
their accounts  some  time before 24 October 2018. But this date should be 12 noon on 22 October 
2018 which was the latest the accounts could  be closed. This doesnt affect  any of my other findings.
Turning to the remaining issues, there are two main questions in this complaint. Firstly,  when should 
Tilney have given notice  that the original fund was closing? Secondly what  would  Mr and Mrs W have 
done if they had been given notice?
When should Tilney have  given  notice?
Mr W argues that notice shouldve been given in the letter  of 29 June 2018 and that as a result of this 
3 July 2018 should be used  as the date he and Mrs W wouldve come  out of the original fund.
Mr W argues that I shouldnt change this date as the investigator accepted it and this isnt what Mr W 
was unhappy about with regard to the investigators  opinion - which is that the investigator accepted 
what Tilney  had said about  there being no loss and the figure  of £4,000 it provided. 
But, as I have  explained to him, on referral to an ombudsman a review of the whole complaint  is 
made. He cant pick and choose what parts of the complaint he wants me to consider. I have to be fair 
to both parties and Tilney  hasnt accepted that notice shouldve been given in the letter of 29 June 
2018. So I have to make a finding on when I think notice shouldve been given 
Mr Ws argument  for the 29 June 2018  letter being the date when notice  shouldve been given is 
simply because this was the only letter received at the time. But the fact this was the only letter sent 
of itself isnt a basis for finding notice shouldve  been included in the letter rather than in a separate  
communication. This would  only be the case if notice shouldve been included in the letter  and Im not 
satisfied it should.
The letter of 29 June 2018 was about  the change of service from Saga to Tilney. It wasnt about 
closure of funds, and the change of service of itself didnt  affect the funds. So there is no reason  to 
expect Tilney to have  referred  to the potential closure  of the original fund in the letter. 
The scheme  of arrangement whereby the original  fund was closed and replaced by the new fund also 
had to be approved by the regulator. I wouldnt have  expected Tilney  to notify any customer  before 
such approval  had been given  which  it hadnt as of 29 June 2018. 
Ref: DRN05784915In the circumstances there is no basis for finding that notice shouldve  been given in the letter of 29 
June 2018 and no basis for using 3 July as the date Mr and Mrs W wouldve come out of the original  
fund. 
Tilney has provided a copy of the notice of the scheme that was sent by the original fund to 
shareholders of the fund dated 2 October 2018 which explained that if a shareholder  didnt  want 
shares in the new fund they could redeem  their shares before 12 noon on 22 October 2018.  
I think  it is reasonable  to have expected Tilney to have notified Mr and Mrs W at the same time about 
the pending closure of the fund. When it accepted that it shouldve given notice of the closure of the 
fund Tilney indicated that it would most likely  provide notice by email. So on that basis it is reasonable 
to say that Mr and Mrs W wouldve received  notice  on or around  2 October 2018.
What would  Mr and Mrs W have done  when they received notice?
I think  they are more  likely than not to have  decided  to come  out of the original fund once they were  
made aware the fund would  be closed. So I think they wouldve contacted Tilney  to sell the original 
fund.
In my first provisional decision I said that Mr and Mrs W wouldve reinvested in something with a 
similar risk to the new fund - so hadnt suffered a loss. But when they came out of the original fund in 
2019 they didnt put their money in a similar  investment  but instead reinvested in a one year fixed 
term account paying  interest  at 2%.
Mr W has said they wouldve  done the same if they had come out of the original fund in October  2018. 
Although there  is no certainty they wouldve  done  the same on balance I accept what  Mr W has said 
about what he wouldve done in 2018.  So I think it is more likely  than not he and Mrs W wouldve  
reinvested in 2018 as they did in 2019 so wouldve  invested in a fixed rate account.  
The account  Mr and Mrs W are currently invested in is a one year fixed  rate account  paying  interest 
monthly at 2%. That account  was only providing interest at 1.69% in October  2018 according  to 
Octobers Moneyfacts and fixed rates were generally lower in October  2018.
But there were a couple of providers who were offering one year fixed rate accounts with monthly 
interest at around  2% with a few more offering around 1.9%.  There were also some providers offering 
two year fixed rate accounts  at 2% and Mr and Mrs W may have opted  to have a longer  term. In the 
circumstances I dont  think  it is unreasonable to find Mr and Mrs W wouldve invested  in fixed rate 
accounts providing  interest at 2%.
What should Tilney  do to put things right? 
Tilney has provided figures for the value of Mr and Mrs Ws accounts  from 2 October  2018. I think it is 
more likely  than not they wouldve contacted Tilney and said they wanted to come out of the original 
fund very shortly afterwards,  within  a matter of days. 
I think  it is reasonable  to use the average value of Mr and Mrs Ws accounts, in the week notice was 
given, as the basis  for calculating any loss. I make this £73,767 for Mr W and £63,672 based on the 
figures Tilney has provided.
Tilney should  add interest to those figures at 2% from 5 October 2018  being the end of that week  
until payment  to Mr and Mrs W of the money they received on coming out of the new fund in 2019.  If 
the money either Mr W or Mrs W received in 2019 is less than the average value of either  account  as 
of October 2018 plus interest Tilney has to pay the difference.
Tilney also has to pay the £350 it has already  offered  for the other service  issues that arose with the 
accounts.
Ref: DRN05784916my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  set out above. Tilney  Investment Management  Services 
Limited has to calculate  redress as set out above and pay Mr and Mrs W the amount, if any, it 
calculates is due.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0578491