K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that hes been unable to access his account with Barclays Bank UK PLC 
since 2018. Mr B also complains about charges  that have been applied  to his account  and 
that hes been unable to switch to another bank. 
Background
Mr B has a bank account with Barclays and says that since  2018 hes been unable  to access 
information about it online. As a result, Mr B says hes been unable to manage the account 
properly and is unclear what payments and fees have been taken. 
In March 2019 Mr B contacted our service  to complain. We asked  Barclays  to look at Mr Bs 
concerns and it responded on 29 May 2019.  Barclays didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
said it had no record of him making  contact to say his account access was blocked. Barclays  
said it had checked  its systems and Mr Bs account access remained in place. Barclays  also 
advised that at the date of issue Mr B owed £7.01 and had an active standing order  that 
incurred an £8 charge if it was returned  unpaid. 
An investigator at our service reviewed  Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold  it. They  said 
Barclays had provided evidence that Mr Bs account access isnt blocked. Mr B didnt accept 
so his complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says hes been unable to access information  about his account online since  2018 as 
his online  credentials  dont work. But Barclays has sent in evidence  from its systems 
showing that Mr Bs membership to the online banking facility is open  and active.  I dont 
know why Mr B has been unable to access  his account online but Im satisfied that the 
evidence Ive seen  shows there  is no block in place  with Barclays.  If Mr B remains  unable  to 
access his account  information online he has the option of visiting a branch or calling 
Barclays for assistance. He can also ask for information about his account in branch  and 
over the phone if hes unable to access it online.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied 
Barclays hasnt blocked his online account  access. 
Mr B says he wants to switch bank but has been  blocked from doing so by Barclays.  But 
Barclays wont agree  to close Mr Bs account unless he repays the outstanding balance. I 
can see there is a regular standing order in place  which is routinely debited and then 
credited back again as there isnt enough money to pay it. Mr B will also need to cancel the 
standing order instruction in order to switch  his account. 
Barclays charges £8 each time an item is returned to the account  unpaid  to a maximum of 
£32 in a charging  period. As Mr Bs regular standing  order  is being returned unpaid  and his 
account is subject  to these charges the outstanding  balance required to repay it has gone  
up. But the charges have been  correctly applied, in line with the account terms, and I dont 
have grounds to tell Barclays  to refund  them. 
Ref: DRN09743802Barclays has sent us copies of letters it has sent to Mr B when items have gone  unpaid. It 
has also sent Mr B regular text messages setting out the balance  of his account.  I think 
Barclays has taken reasonable steps  to keep Mr B updated with information about his 
account. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but I havent found any evidence that his account access or the 
services Barclays  provides have been limited. Barclays contact notes dont show any record 
of Mr B raising concerns about his account access in 2018 and he continued to operate the 
account until April 2019. If Mr B wants to close his account he will need  to contact Barclays  
to discuss the outstanding  balance.  The charges  Ive seen have been correctly  applied so I 
dont think it would be fair to tell Barclays  to refund them. Barclays  says Mr Bs account is 
now with its collections department who can discuss options with him. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0974380