K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) havent paid their travel insurance claim.  
background
Mr and Mrs Bs travel  insurance policy is provided  as part of their package  bank account. 
The policy is underwritten by UKI.
Mr and Mrs B booked  a package holiday. The cost of the entire  trip was around £13,130. 
This included business  class flights, accommodation, transfers and guided  tours.  
After flying out to their destination, there  was some civil unrest. The travel agent 
recommended Mr and Mrs B return home and Mr and Mrs B agreed. Mr and Mrs B made a 
claim on their travel  insurance policy. They wanted  their bank, the travel agent, UKI or all 
three together to cover the entire  cost of their trip. They argue since the entire package 
wasnt provided they should get a full refund.
UKI declined  their travel insurance claim. It felt no further money was due to Mr and Mrs B 
because the travel agent had already offered  them a refund for the unused services. And 
under the terms  of their insurance  policy,  this is what Mr and Mrs B were  due.
An investigator at our service looked at the case. He didnt think UKI needed to refund       
Mr and Mrs B the cost of the holiday. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, so asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I thought the complaint should  be upheld  in 
part. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
UKI are the underwriter of the insurance  policy  so they are the business  responsible  for 
accepting or declining a claim. The bank who provides Mr and Mrs Bs packaged bank 
account benefits has nothing to do with claims decisions, and the bank  dont underwrite the 
risk. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also mentioned making a complaint  under  S75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act. This complaint would  need to be brought against the provider of the finance, and has 
nothing to do with UKI so I wont be addressing  this point in any further detail here.  
Mr and Mrs B have  also pointed out a number of issues with their travel agent. But the only 
complaint Im considering here is whether  UKI has acted fairly and reasonably by declining  
their claim under  their travel insurance  policy. 
Mr and Mrs Bs travel  insurance policy included curtailment cover.  This is designed to 
recover losses if a customer has to cut short their holiday. Ive considered  the terms of the 
policy and can see it says UKI will: 
reimburse up to £5,000  per insured person, for
a)unused travel and accommodation  expenses .due to:
Ref: DRN063686823. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All travel or All 
but essential travel  to your destination, providing .into force  after your 
departure date.
It also says:
If, during your journey, you can no longer stay at your pre booked  and prepaid 
accommodationbecause of:
-civil unrest
.if you choose to return  to the UK, we will pay you up to £5,000 per insured for unused  
travel and accommodation expenses.
There were reports  of civil unrest  in the days after Mr and Mrs B arrived.  So the travel agent 
made plans  to bring them home. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
subsequently issued guidance advising against all but essential travel  to the area.  
Since the FCO guidance was issued after Mr and Mrs Bs departure  date and a portion of 
their pre-paid  expenses  were unused,  I think  this meets the terms set out for curtailment 
cover.
However, the terms also say:
 What you are not covered for:
11. Expenses you can recover  from elsewhere.
In February 2017  the travel agent  wrote to Mr and Mrs B, they explained they had seven 
days to accept the offer of £4,818. This amount  represented the unused services.                
Mr and Mrs B didnt  get in touch  to say they accepted the offer. The travel agent  has 
therefore confirmed  the offer is no longer available. 
UKI says Mr and Mrs B could  have  recovered the expenses from elsewhere and so the 
exclusion applies. And I understand why it says this. The insurance cover is designed to 
reimburse for unused  expenses. And if Mr and Mrs B had accepted  the offer made  by the 
travel agent,  then theyd  have already  recovered  their insured losses from elsewhere, so 
wouldnt be entitled to claim under their policy.  
However, this offer is no longer  available to them. The travel agent  is not obliged  to provide 
any refund, and offered this as a gesture of goodwill. So I dont think its fair to say Mr and 
Mrs B can recover the expenses from elsewhere. This means I dont think the exclusion 
applies. So Id expect UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.  
Mr and Mrs B think the cost of the whole package holiday should  be refunded, not only the 
unused portion. However this isnt something which their policy provides them  with cover for 
 and I dont think  it would  be fair or reasonable to ask UKI to reimburse  them in full. Mr and 
Mrs B were  able to use the outbound  flights,  which represent a large  proportion  of the 
holiday cost. They were  also able to use some of the accommodation and guide services.
So, my provisional decision was that I intended  to uphold the complaint in part and 
recommend that UKI should  pay Mr and Mrs Bs curtailment claim for their unused  expenses 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of their policy together with interest. 
Ref: DRN06368683responses to my provisional  decisions
UKI responded to my provisional decision and said it didnt think Mr and Mrs B had taken all 
reasonable steps to recover the money. It said Mr and Mrs B ought to have accepted the 
amount offered by the travel agent. And so didnt think  it should  cover the cost of unused  
expenses.
Mr and Mrs B raised a number of points in response. In summary these were:
they still felt a full refund was due
they still considered  their complaint  to be against their bank account provider 
because it can choose to pay a higher claim than advised  by the underwriter (in this 
case UKI).
the civil unrest started before they flew out and so felt I had an incorrect 
understanding of the situation.
they dont  think  the amount of around  £4,000 for unused services has been fully 
explained
they wanted some clarification on the amount of redress Id suggested
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding it in line 
with my provisional decision.  
Ive considered what UKI has said and I understand Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the offer 
within a set timeframe and so it was taken away. But, as I think  UKI as the insurer  has a 
liability under  the policy  and so considering  all the circumstances I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to pay for the unused travel  and accommodation expenses.
Mr and Mrs B have  made a number  of points. Ive considered  all of these; however Ill 
address the main ones here.
Decisions to decline or agree a claim are made  by the underwriter, in this case  UKI. Its also 
the underwriter who is responsible for paying these claims. Considering Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint is that the claim they made on their travel  insurance policy was declined,  its 
appropriate that a response was provided  by UKI and that this case  is against it. 
Mr and Mrs B say their travel agent  ought to have told them  about the unrest before they 
flew. Theyve provided a news article they say proves the unrest started  before  they 
travelled. Had they been told, they say they would have been able to cancel their trip and 
receive a full refund under this insurance. As I said in my provisional decision,  this complaint 
is not about the travel agent,  its about  UKI. The key question I need to consider in this case 
is whether UKI acted  fairly  and in line with the terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy. And to do this, 
I need to consider what did happen,  not what  could  have  happened if the travel agent had 
done something differently. 
Mr and Mrs Bs trip was cut short,  it wasnt cancelled  all together.  So the term that is most 
relevant is the curtailment  part of the cover. Which Ive considered  and agree applies here. 
Because this applies, I think Mr and Mrs B are due a refund  of any unused  travel and 
accommodation expenses- as per the terms of their policy.
Ref: DRN06368684Mr and Mrs B have  referred to our general approach when we say something has gone 
wrong- this is to put customers back in the position  they wouldve been in had things not 
gone wrong. They say this approach means  they should get back the full cost of their 
holiday. This approach is relevant when we think a business has done something  wrong.  In 
my provisional findings I found UKI had applied the correct part of the policy; however when 
the travel  agents  offer was no longer available to Mr and Mrs B I thought UKI could no 
longer rely on the exclusions of Expenses you can recover from elsewhere. And so I 
thought UKI should pay the curtailment  claim  but this is still subject to the terms and 
limitations of this section  of cover.  It wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to ask UKI to disregard 
these in the circumstances and pay Mr and Mrs B for amounts which  the terms of their policy  
dont cover them for.  
Unused expenses  and redress
Mr and Mrs B were  unclear  as to what was meant by unused  expenses. 
The travel agent  has provided a breakdown  for the unused services.  It listed  these as being  
£4,818 in various correspondences. However in one piece of correspondence  it said £4,878, 
which it now says is a typing mistake. Consider the figures are different on one digit,  I think  
this is likely.
The terms of the policy are clear in their intention to only cover unused  expenses if a 
holiday has to be cut short. Mr and Mrs B say this is unfair because  this would result in them 
paying over £8,000 for a short trip. While I empathise with Mr and Mrs B, the question  Im 
answering is whether  UKI acted within the terms of the policy. And the terms of                    
Mr and Mrs Bs policy says UKI will pay for unused travel and accommodation  expenses . 
But its now up to UKI to calculate what  settlement Mr and Mrs B are due under the terms 
and conditions of their policy. Its for an insurer to calculate this  not this service.  If Mr and 
Mrs B are unhappy with any settlement amount offered to them, they are entitled to complain  
to UKI. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. U K Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr and Mrs Bs curtailment claim for their unused  expenses,  in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of their policy ; and
pay interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of this claim 
to the date it makes  payment1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019. 
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN063686851 If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a 
certificate showing  this if they asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0636868