K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mrs G says Northern Bank  Limited  (Northern) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt miss-sold because:
I think Northern made  it clear that Mrs G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this now, 
many years later.  I say this because Ive seen the postal  application form. To get the 
cover Mrs G would  have  had to select it and she would have had a choice about 
doing that. So it seems most likely that Mrs G did choose it and did so knowing she 
had a choice about it. 
Both parties recall  the policy being  sold without  a recommendation, so Northern did 
not have to make sure the PPI was right for Mrs G. But it did need  to make sure it 
gave Mrs G information sufficient  for her to make an informed choice about the PPI.
Its possible the information Northern gave Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.  I say this because Mrs G was eligible for the policy and 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover. And she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. I say this as Mrs G told us that whilst her 
initial sick pay was good, it dropped  significantly after six months and Mrs G told us 
she had no savings  or other insurance she could have  relied on. This policy  couldve 
covered 10% of her monthly balance for up to 12 months. And as it wouldve paid out 
for longer  than her company would have paid her at her full rate of pay, I think  she 
couldve found this cover useful.
Which means Northern doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Northern has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because:  
When the policy was sold, Northern expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mrs G about  that. 
Because Northern  didnt tell Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit  share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN07917012Northern has to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern should  also pay back  to Mrs G any extra  interest 
Mrs G paid because of that.
Northern should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mrs G the difference 
between what Mrs G owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern should also pay Mrs G 8%* simple 
interest if Mrs G paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand theyve already 
paid Mrs G back some of the undisclosed commission that was more  than half the cost 
of the PPI policy.
Northern Bank Limited have now told us that theyre  making Mrs G a revised offer 
because the way they calculated the original offer wasnt quite right.  
Taking everything into account,  I think this is a fair way to resolve Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2018.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0791701