K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1995. 
Mrs W says she took out the PPI when she applied for her card during a meeting at the 
bank. Theres only limited  information now available, but she may well be right about that. 
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how or exactly  when  PPI was sold to Mrs W.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mrs W mainly said that she had only ever applied for a credit card and not PPI and she 
believes Lloyds added  this to her account  afterwards  without  her knowledge.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mrs W being able to remember everything as it happened so long ago. So I cant  
know exactly what the bank said to Mrs W, if anything, when she took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application it was using in 1995. But I dont 
know if Mrs W wouldve  filled in a form like this when she took out the PPI  because it isnt 
clear exactly  how or when this happened. So Im not relying on this. 
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Based on what we know about  the way Lloyds usually sold PPI around this time, I think its 
likely that however the sale took place, Mrs W wouldve had to say if she wanted  PPI  it 
wasnt automatically added onto a credit  card account. And it looks  to me as if Mrs W 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.  So, on balance, I think its more 
likely that Mrs W decided she wanted  to have the benefits PPI offered and Lloyds added PPI 
to her account at her request,  even if understandably she no longer recalls  that. 
Lloyds said that in fairness to Mrs W it would  look at her complaint as if it had advised  Mrs W 
personally to have the PPI. This means  it not only had to give her important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs W.
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs W based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN04890882Ive taken into account what Mrs W told us about the sick pay she couldve relied  on getting 
from her employer. But the PPI wouldve covered her for accident  or sickness,  paying  out for 
up to 12 months per claim, on top of her sick pay from work. So I think  the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out in the event  Mrs W lost her job unexpectedly and was 
out of work. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs W mentioned having death in service  benefits through work 
 but PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. So this 
doesnt affect my decision. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs W if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
 
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
 
Ive taken into account that Mrs W had some  savings at the time. But I dont know  if she 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make  a claim  she told us these 
were intended  to help pay for her wedding. And the policy paid out for longer than the 
amount of savings shes mentioned wouldve lasted if shed had to rely on these to cover  her 
outgoings when  she was unable to work. 
So I think PPI was suitable for her.   
Looking at the likely policy terms, I think Mrs W was eligible  for the cover. It doesnt look as if 
Mrs W was affected  by any of the main  policy limitations or exclusions that mightve made it 
difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
Some of the information Lloyds gave  Mrs W about the PPI probably wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  For example, I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would  
cost, or what it might  pay out if Mrs W made a claim. But it seems to have been affordable 
for her. And Mrs W couldve  cancelled the policy at any time without further cost if her 
circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to pay for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Mrs W 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. This means Mrs W hasnt lost out as a result of 
anything that Lloyds may have done  wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things  
right.
Ref: DRN04890883my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0489088