K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr S between  
February 2017 and July 2017. Mr S borrowed amounts  between  £100 and £350 to be repaid 
in instalments over terms between five and twelve months. Mr S repaid  all his loans early 
and then borrowed again shortly afterwards. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint in part and thought the loans three and four 
shouldnt have been given. Satsuma disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN09677752Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Satsuma asked Mr S for information about  his income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr S said his monthly  income was £1,800 and his normal outgoings 
accounted for about half this amount. 
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time and his history with Satsuma, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr S provided or the information 
Satsuma shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr S was saying. 
But I think that Satsuma  should have made better checks  for loans three  and four and 
looked to verify what Mr S had told it. This is because Mr S was repaying  his loans early and 
then borrowing again. This implied that he couldnt  repay his loans, and cover  his normal  
outgoings, without  further loans. So I think this showed that he wasnt using the loans as 
they were intended.  
Satsuma could, for example, have asked to see Mr Ss bank statements to check his 
financial position. And, as our adjudicator  explained, a proportionate  check for loans three 
and four would  most likely have shown that Mr S was having  problems managing  his money:
Mr S had several outstanding short term loans with other lenders.
Mr S was making repayments through a debt management plan showing that hed had 
previous problems managing his money.
So I think Satsuma would  then have seen that Mr S would be unable  to sustainably  repay  
loans three  and four. And I think Satsuma was wrong to have  approved loans three and four. 
And so I uphold the complaint about  loans three and four and I think Satsuma should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans three and four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans three and four from Mr Ss credit file;
Ref: DRN09677753 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint. I 
require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) to pay Mr S 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0967775