K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ms representative, her son Mr M, complains on her behalf about  McHardy Financial 
Limited (the business).  
In short,  Mr M says:
In 2013, the business  failed to set up and check that the bond was in trust. 
Fees were charged  for servicing the bond and the annual reviews which didnt 
happen. 
The advice to surrender the 2013 bond and start a new investment  the 2017  bond 
 was wrong. 
background
In 2013, Mrs M met with an adviser from the business. As a result  of advice she invested  
£140,000 into the bond with a third party  provider.  The bond was to be set up in trust.  
In 2017, Mr M received  a letter from the bond provider notifying her that it was withdrawing 
from the UK markets and no longer  offering new investments  as it planned to concentrate on 
group pensions and protection. 
Mrs M contacted the business and in a meeting  she discovered that the 2013 bond  wasnt  
placed in trust. It was subsequently decided  that the bond would be surrendered  and a new 
bond put in place. In 2017, a new bond was arranged and is in trust. 
The business partially upheld the complaint.  In summary, it said:
The servicing Mrs M received wasnt in line with the 0.75% she was charged  a year.  
Instead it was more in line with a cost of 0.5% a year. So it offered a rebate of 0.25% 
of the charge for the life of the bond.  
A third party business was responsible  for failing to set up the bond  in trust. It wasnt  
its fault. 
The 2013 bond was surrendered and the 2017 bond was set up only as a result of 
concerns raised by Mrs M. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
In relation to the 2013 and 2017 bonds, because Mrs M made clear that this 
complaint isnt about the suitability of advice  but instead  about the specific 
complaint points raised  he wont consider the suitability issues. 
Hes looked at if it was appropriate to surrender the 2013 bond  and start a new one in 
2017.  
In relation to the trust issue, it was clear to all parties that the bond was to be placed 
in trust. 
It was recorded  in the suitability letter under  the heading your objectives and 
priorities now:
oyou have had a meeting with your solicitorand  they with yourself  have 
requested that you would  wish only one provider  for investment  terms for your 
capital and a probate  trust round your investments.  
Ref: DRN04779382oYou also wished to invest the monies  without  any tie in period and be able to 
be written under a trust to your 3 of 4 children.
The business had a duty of care to ensure that the 2013  bond was set up in trust. 
Because the seven year clock hadnt started, in the event something unfortunate 
happened to Mrs M, the 2013 bond  had the potential  of not being  excluded from her 
estate for IHT purposes. 
The 2017 bond (held in trust) will now have to be in place for seven years  until 
2024  before it can fall outside Mrs Ms estate.    
To compensate Mrs M the business should  do the following:
oPay any IHT that becomes due on the bond, upon receipt of documentation  
from the executor.  
oPay £250 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
In relation to the service fees,  it appears that Mrs M didnt receive any reviews 
between 2013  and 2017, despite being  charged  0.75% a year. The business says 
there were meetings with the bond  provider but not in a structured  way. The business  
says it can prove  when it was next door and dropped in on Mrs M but theres no 
documentation of servicing the bond  annually. 
He doesnt  think Mrs M was made sufficiently aware that she couldve left the 2013 
bond in place. 
To compensate Mrs M the business should:
oRefund the 0.75% annual servicing fees and annual review  fees paid, with 8% 
simple interest. 
oCompare the value of the bond when it was surrendered and what it wouldve 
been worth on the date of settlement of this complaint with the value of the 
2017 bond on the date of settlement of this complaint. This comparison 
should include the initial advice fee. Any loss should  be refunded with 8% 
simple interest.     
The business disagreed with the investigators conclusions, particularly in light of the IHT, 
and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  In summary it said:
Mrs M doesnt  have an IHT issue as things  stand.  If she inherited money or won the 
lottery, and then died,  it would end up paying tens of thousands of pounds based  on 
the investigators view.  
It appreciates that it cant demonstrate that its done a lot of work to justify the level of 
ongoing fees. But it has done some  work  which its demonstrated by virtue of the 
2015 paperwork  such as valuations, fund research,  monitoring calls etc. It cant 
say this work is worth nothing. 
A refund of the full 0.75% seems  harsh.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite  what the business says, I think  the 
business had a duty of care to ensure that the 2013 bond was placed in trust.  
Ref: DRN04779383Im not suggesting that the business had to set up the trust itself, Im suggesting that it was 
obliged to take reasonable steps to ensure that it was. It appears the business agrees. 
Because it didnt  do this the seven year clock didnt start in 2013. Im conscious the 2017 
bond was placed in trust, but this means  that Mrs M will now have to wait until 2024, before 
the money invested in the bond will no longer be potentially liable to IHT.  
I appreciate the point  made by the business,  about  the fairness of the redress in relation to 
the IHT liability. But I can see no reason it shouldnt be liable for any IHT that is payable  on 
the 2017 bond on Mrs Ms death  even if that is because of a change  to her financial 
circumstances. If the 2013 bond had been  put in trust this money would fall out of her estate 
in the next year and wouldnt be subject to IHT after that, regardless of any change to Mrs 
Ms finances. If she dies before 2024  and IHT is payable  on the 2017 bond I can see no 
reason her estate should have to pay this. 
In the circumstances I think if any IHT liability arises  in relation to the 2017  bond  this is 
something that the business is liable for and will have  to pay.
Im mindful of points  the business makes  about  the fees charged, but I dont think  some  
meetings with the bond provider (not in a structured way) and occasionally dropping in on 
Mrs M  without  any paperwork  or planning  amounts to servicing the bond  or reviewing it 
annually. It may amount  to some work but none  that I can see would justify  a deduction in 
what I think is a reasonable refund, as suggested  by the investigator. 
So, in the circumstances I think the investigator is fair to recommend a refund of the 0.75% 
annual fees charged, with 8% simple  interest.  
In relation to the final issue, the question  isnt whether I can be certain about whether Mrs M 
was aware she could leave the 2013  bond  in place, I think  its whether  on a balance  of 
probabilities she was made aware that she could. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, despite  what the business says about her displeasure, Im unable to say that she 
was aware she could leave it in place.  
I note by this time shes been invested for four years. It may be that she was told the way to 
get the bond in trust would be to just start a new one and start afresh with a new investment. 
On balance, I dont  think she was aware she could  leave it where it was. I appreciate Mrs M 
wanted to meet with the adviser after receiving information from the bond  provider. But I 
cant safely say just because of this that she wanted  to invest  her monies  elsewhere.  I think 
its likely  Mrs M (and her daughter) was concerned about the future of the investment but its 
more likely than not she relied on the advice from the business,  before deciding she wanted 
to move away from the bond.  
So by way of redress, I think  the business  should compare the value  of the 2013 bond when 
it was surrendered and what  its value wouldve been  on the date of settlement of this 
complaint, with the value of the 2017  bond  on the date of settlement of this complaint. This 
comparison should include  the initial advice fee and any loss should be refunded  with 8% 
simple interest.     
Ref: DRN04779384my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
McHardy Financial Limited  should pay Mrs M the following redress:
oPay any IHT liability  that becomes due on the 2017 bond that would not have 
been payable  on the 2013 bond  if it had been  put in trust,  upon receipt of 
evidence of liability from the executor or solicitors  acting as executors.
oRefund the 0.75% annual servicing fees and annual review  fees paid, with 8% 
simple interest. 
oCompare the value of the 2013 bond at the date of settlement  if it hadnt been 
surrendered, with the value of the 2017 bond on the date of settlement of this 
complaint. This comparison  should  include the initial advice fee. Any loss 
should be refunded with 8% simple interest.     
oPay £250 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0477938