K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about the information he was given  by his solicitor,  before he took out a 
fixed sum loan with Novitas Loans Ltd, to pay for some legal fees.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  the 
complaint. 
I invited Mr S and Novitas to let me have any final comments  and evidence  before making 
my final decision. Mr S didnt have  any further  comments to add to my provisional  decision. 
Novitas accepted  my provisional decision,  but made  some further points. In summary, 
Novitas said:
The solicitors which Novitas work with are independent and dont receive a financial 
incentive for recommending clients to them. Their loan service is a funding  option for 
customers to consider.
Mr S was advised by Novitas  to take advice from another solicitor, to ensure  he 
understood the loan and its implications, if the loan wasnt repaid.  The other solicitor 
used by Mr S confirmed that they provided  him with advice about the terms and 
implications of the loan agreement, the security documentation and the insurance.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I set out in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.  However,  I will address 
the additional points Novitas have made.
the role of the solicitor
I acknowledge what Novitas say, where theyve explained that the solicitor  wasnt  given a 
financial incentive for recommending that Mr S take out a loan with them.  I agree that the 
loan was a funding option for Mr S. 
But, I also think the solicitor played a part in the sale of the loan.  Indeed, the loan agreement 
forms named the solicitor  as the introducer.  And Mr S has sent us copies of emails where 
the solicitor talks about arranging the loan. Mr S also says that he didnt have  direct  contact 
with Novitas during the application process. So, I think the solicitor acted as Novitas  agent 
or broker, when the loan was provided to Mr S. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  CCA)  says that a finance provider is responsible  
for any antecedent  negotiations carried out by the credit broker. So, I think  Mr S was able to 
rely on the information given to him, about  the loan by the solicitor. 
Ive concluded  that some of the information  given to Mr S about the terms of the loan was 
incorrect. In all the circumstances,  Im still persuaded it was that incorrect information which 
induced Mr S to enter into the loan agreement, where he otherwise wouldnt have.
Ref: DRN08127372Whilst I accept  Novitas  points that they didnt offer a financial incentive to the solicitor, I 
dont think that means  the solicitor was removed  from acting as their agent, in the sale of the 
loan agreement to Mr S.
the advice from the other solicitor about  the loan agreement
Mr S says his visit to the other solicitor  was arranged by the same solicitor who handled the 
loan application.  In other words, Mr S didnt seek out an independent  solicitor  himself to 
check the paperwork.
I have considered if Mr S paid for the other  solicitor  to check over the loan agreement, and 
Im not persuaded he did. Had Mr S paid for the work carried out by the other solicitor, I 
would have expected to see an invoice  to Mr S, or for Mr S to have claimed for that cost in 
this complaint. Having  considered everything, I think its likely the services of the other 
solicitor to check the paperwork, was paid for by the solicitor who handled  the application.
The solicitor  who handled the application,  gave incorrect information about  the insurance  
and Mr Ss liability for the loan, in an email to Mr S. I dont think  Mr S was given any reason, 
by the other solicitor,  to depart from what hed been told. So, I still think  Mr S was able to rely 
on what he now knows was incorrect information,  about the insurance and what his liability 
would be, if he was unsuccessful in the legal action he was taking.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To settle Mr Ss case, Novitas Loans Ltd should:
-refund  the interest applied to the loan, since it was agreed on 16 January 2016 to the 
date of settlement;
-cancel any further interest from being applied to the loan, from the date of settlement;
-refund  the £5,000 insurance  cost, back to the loan account;
-refund  the £600 administration fee back  to the loan account;
-engage with Mr S about a repayment plan for the remaining loan balance, which 
takes into consideration his income  and expenditure; and
-pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08127373copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about the information he was given by his solicitor, before he took out a fixed  sum 
loan with Novitas Loans Ltd, to pay for some legal  fees.
background
At the end of 2015, Mr S approached a solicitor to represent him with some legal action he was 
involved in. Mr S was unable to pay for the work which the solicitor said was needed. So, the solicitor 
arranged a fixed sum loan with Novitas, in Mr Ss name, to pay for the work. The solicitor  also 
arranged for Mr S to visit a different solicitor, to advise him on the terms of the loan. 
Before the paperwork  was signed by Mr S, he was told by the solicitor,  in an email,  that he could 
repay the loan, out of any settlement from the legal  action. He was also told that the loan was insured,  
in case  the outcome  didnt go in his favour. The solicitor explained to Mr S, that should that happen, 
the insurance  would pay for the balance  of the loan.
Over the next year, Mr S says the solicitor failed to answer any of his calls and email messages, 
despite drawing down on the majority of the loan. So, he says he approached  the court dealing with 
his claim and discovered the solicitor hadnt done the work hed paid him for, apart from paying a 
court fee. He also says he discovered that he wouldnt have benefited from the loan insurance, as it 
only covered  the risk to Novitas.
Mr S says he was unhappy  with his solicitor because they hadnt done  what they said they would. Mr 
S also says he wouldnt  have entered the loan agreement, if he had known the truth about  the 
insurance. Mr S couldnt  reach  a settlement with his solicitor, so complained to Novitas, that he was 
given incorrect information  about the loan, before he agreed to it.
During the next eighteen months, the solicitors business closed and Mr S made  a claim to the 
Solicitors Regulatory Authority (SRA). The SRA upheld  Mr Ss claim that work wasnt done by the 
solicitor and awarded him compensation.  The compensation amount was the same as the amount 
borrowed from Novitas,  except  for the court  fee. Mr S used these funds  to pay a different solicitor, for 
further legal action. This meant that the loan balance  was still outstanding  with Novitas.
In March 2018, Mr S complained again to Novitas, and said he shouldnt have  to repay the balance of 
the loan, because he was given  incorrect information about it, before  he signed the agreement. In 
their final response  to Mr Ss complaint, Novitas said that Mr S was still responsible for the 
outstanding balance of the loan and that he agreed to the terms and conditions from the outset, after 
taking independent legal advice. Novitas also said that they werent responsible for the solicitors 
actions, but did offer to refund some interest that had accrued on the balance.
Mr S didnt accept Novitas response and contacted us. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss 
case and was persuaded  that the incorrect information given by the solicitor about  the insurance, was 
the reason Mr S agreed to the loan. He also said that the solicitor had breached the contract he had 
with Mr S, by not carrying  out any work, that he had been paid for.
But, the investigator  concluded that Mr S had already  been compensated by the SRA. So, he found  
that Mr S should  be responsible for the initial loan amount and any interest applied after the SRA 
claim was paid. The investigator also concluded that Novitas should pay Mr S £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience they had caused and that they should look to reach an affordable repayment plan 
with him, for the outstanding balance of the loan.
Mr S didnt agree  with the investigator and said the compensation  given to him by the SRA, was his to 
pay for further legal action.  Mr S also said that the loan should be void,  because he was given 
incorrect information by the solicitor.
Ref: DRN08127374Mr S didnt accept the investigators further conclusions and so his case has now come to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr S has been dealing with this matter, since he found out the results  of the SRAs investigation into 
his solicitor in March 2018.  Mr S has explained to us the impact this has had on him and his personal  
circumstances. I sympathise with what Mr S has been through, particularly  as the legal action he was 
originally involved in, was deeply personal  to him.
Novitas relationship with the solicitor
This case is about a fixed sum loan agreement which is a regulated financial product. The agreement  
was sold by the solicitor on behalf of Novitas. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
says that a finance provider is responsible for any antecedent negotiations carried  out by the credit 
broker. In Mr Ss case, the solicitor acted as Novitas agent with the fixed sum loan agreement. So, I 
can consider  Mr Ss complaint against Novitas.
What I need to consider in this case, is if the finance was misrepresented or misdescribed to Mr S. 
For a misrepresentation  to have taken place I need to consider if Mr S was told a false statement  of 
fact that induced  him into taking the finance when  he otherwise wouldnt have.
About six weeks before Mr S was given  the fixed sum loan agreement to sign,  the solicitor sent him 
an email, summarising the features of the loan. The solicitor  told Mr S that:
The loan will be insured  if you lose you will not have to pay it back.
Having considered  what  the solicitor told Mr S before he signed the loan agreement, I think he was 
given confidence that taking out the loan would  be risk free and he would  not be liable to make any 
repayments, if his legal action wasnt successful. The solicitor was Novitas  agent in their application 
for Mr S. So, I think it was fair and reasonable  for Mr S to have relied on what  his was told here.
Mr S says he found out that he had been given incorrect information about  the insurance, towards the 
end of 2016. Novitas sent Mr S various emails around this time,  which  supports what  he says. In one 
email, Novitas says:
Importantly,  a claim on the policy by Novitas does  not have the effect of writing-off your liability  under 
the loan agreement and does not mean that you no longer owe money. The insurance  company has 
the right to take over the debt and enforce  against you to recover the monies outstanding.
Taking into consideration  what Novitas subsequently told Mr S about the insurance on the fixed  sum 
loan, I think the solicitor  gave  Mr S the wrong  impression  about  the risk he was taking by agreeing to 
it.
I think,  on balance that Mr S was given  incorrect information about the loan, before he signed  the 
agreement. Mr Ss email conversation with the solicitor shows that he was told the insurance would 
cover his costs, if he were  to lose the legal  action he was taking. And I dont think Mr S would have 
entered the contract had he known that he would have been pursued for the repayment of the loan.  
So, I think Novitas should offer a remedy to Mr S and this means, as far as practical, they should  put 
Mr S back in the position  he wouldve been  in, had he not entered  the loan agreement.
Novitas have so far, agreed to refund  interest back  to the loan, from the time Mr S received payment 
from the SRA. But, I have  concluded that I think Mr S would have explored other options and wouldnt 
Ref: DRN08127375have agreed  to the loan if he had known the truth about the insurance. I think  Novitas should put Mr S 
back in the position  he would have been in, had he not agreed to the loan. So, I think it is fair for 
Novitas to refund all the interest  that has been applied  to loan, since it was agreed and prevent any 
further interest from being applied.  This will reduce the borrowing, back  to the amount  that was used 
by the solicitor.
I also think  Novitas should  refund the administration  fee of £600, back to the loan account. I say this 
because I have  concluded that Mr S wouldnt  have likely taken out the loan, if he had been given the 
correct information. So, I dont think its fair for Mr S to be responsible for any administration fee that 
went along with the loan.
the cost of the insurance
The fixed sum loan agreement  was signed by Mr S, at the start of February  2016. As part of the 
paperwork, a drawdown notice was signed by Mr S, which shows how much of the loan facility was to 
be used and for what reason. Specifically, the drawdown  notice shows that the insurance cost for the 
loan was £5,000,  and this was paid using the loan, when it was first agreed.
Ive found that the details of the insurance  werent properly explained to Mr S, by the solicitor before 
he signed the loan agreement.  And Ive concluded that interest and fees on the loan should  be 
refunded, to try and put Mr S back in the position he was in, before he entered  the agreement. So, I 
dont think it would be fair for Mr S to have to pay for the insurance given to him by Novitas.  I think 
Novitas should refund  the £5,000 cost of the insurance back to the loan account, to reduce the overall 
balance.
the cost for other  solicitor  to witness Mr S signature and give advice
As part of the loan agreement process, the solicitor asked Mr S to have the agreement forms checked 
by a different solicitor, before he signed them. Mr S says he didnt arrange  this himself  and he was 
told by the solicitor, where to take the paperwork.
Ive looked at all the evidence Mr S has told us about, but I cannot  see that he had paid for another 
solicitor to do this work.  I can see that the appointment did happen, and another  solicitor confirmed  
that they had seen  the paperwork.  So, while I think the appointment was arranged  and went ahead, 
on balance, I dont think Mr S was charged for this work. I accept what  Mr S says, in that the 
appointment was arranged by his solicitor. And I think its likely, his solicitor arranged  for the payment  
of that advice.
Having considered  everything  here, I dont think it would be fair to require Novitas to refund  any fees 
paid to the other solicitor,  when Mr S took the paperwork along  to be checked.
the amount of work carried out by the solicitor
Mr S says that the solicitor only ever applied to a court, rather than doing actual  work on his case. I 
think Mr Ss argument is supported here, by the findings of the SRA and their subsequent  payment to 
him. So, Ive also considered  if there was a breach of contract by the solicitor,  where Mr S says he 
didnt get what he paid for.
The relevant piece of legislation Ive thought about is section 75 of the CCA. This provides protection 
for consumers  for goods  and services bought using  credit.  Under section 75, subject to certain  
criteria, consumers  who use a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for goods and services, have an 
equal claim against  the finance provider, for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the 
supplier. 
One of these  criteria, is that section 75 only applies to a claim where the cash  price  of a single item is 
over £100, but no more  than £30,000.  The solicitor charged Mr S more than £30,000 for the work he 
said hed do. So, I dont think Novitas could have taken a section 75 claim forward for Mr S.
Ref: DRN08127376But, in certain circumstances, section 75a of the CCA, gives a consumer  equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit,  if theres been a breach  of contract by the 
supplier. Section 75a applies where the cash price of the goods or services  is more than £30,000, but 
less than £60,260. And where the consumer has taken reasonable steps to pursue their claim against  
the supplier, but has not obtained satisfaction for that claim. Ive also considered  other exclusions 
which could prevent section 75a from applying. But, Im satisfied that they are not relevant in Mr Ss 
case.
Mr Ss fixed sum loan agreement  amount  is for more  than £30,000, but less than £60,260. Which 
means, Mr S does have  an equal right to claim  against Novitas  under section 75a. Its worth clarifying  
Im not deciding  Novitas liability under section 75a of the CCA. We certainly  take into account  the 
relevant law and that includes section  75a. But we decide cases by considering what  is fair and 
reasonable. What Im looking at is whether  Novitas has dealt with Mr Ss complaint fairly and whether 
theres more it needs  to do to resolve  this.
Having considered  the correspondence  between Mr S and the solicitor, and the payment to Mr S by 
the SRA, I think Mr S has taken reasonable  steps  to try and resolve  things with the supplier. So, I 
think Mr S had a valid claim under section 75A of the CCA and that there was a breach  of contract  by 
the solicitor.
But, Mr S has already received a settlement for the work not carried out by the solicitor.  So, I dont 
think it would be fair for Novitas to compensate him for a second time.
the payment from the SRA
The SRA have told us that they made a payment to Mr S, for £49,645 on 6 March 2018.  The papers  
provided by Mr S show that this payment was a refund of all the funds taken by the solicitor from the 
loan, except for a court application fee. So, I think Mr S was given a refund  of the majority of the funds 
paid to the solicitor, from the loan with Novitas. 
While it was Mr Ss decision  what  to do next, I think he was in a position  to use the SRA payment to 
repay most  of the borrowing  with Novitas. But, Mr S decided to use the SRA payment to pay a 
different solicitor.
I understand the position  Mr S found  himself in, as he wanted to continue  with his legal action. But, it 
remains that the loan with Novitas, has an outstanding balance. I think it is still Mr Ss responsibility  to 
repay that balance, despite  him using the SRA payment in a different way. I dont think  it would be fair 
for Novitas to have to write  off the balance  of the loan. 
So, I think it is fair for Novitas to ask Mr S for repayment proposals for the outstanding  balance.  If Mr 
S is unable  to repay a lump sum to clear the outstanding balance, Novitas should work  with him, to 
find an affordable repayment plan, in line with his income  and expenditure. Novitas have a 
responsibility to review any plan they make with Mr S regularly, so Mr S should  make them aware if 
his circumstances  change. 
The distress  and inconvenience Mr S experienced
The notes provided by Mr S, show  that he sent an email to Novitas on 2 December 2016, which 
highlighted the incorrect information about the loan given  by the solicitor.  I think  it was at this time, 
Novitas were made aware of Mr Ss concerns with the loan he had taken  out with them. 
But the notes also show that Novitas replied  to Mr S and referred him to the loan agreement forms,  
which say that the loan is insured. Novitas also told Mr S that they gave the solicitor a frequently 
asked questions  document,  which explained how the insurance worked. 
Ref: DRN08127377I think  Novitas  had a responsibility to Mr S, in December 2016, to look into the sale of the loan by the 
solicitor. Similarly,  Novitas then became aware that the solicitor had been closed down  by the SRA in 
October 2017 and that Mr S had received  compensation for the solicitors  actions.  
However, Novitas didnt take steps to recognise the position this put Mr S in. And they continued to 
apply interest  to the loan account, while telling Mr S that it was his responsibility to pay it. But, Ive 
also considered that when Mr S was given the payment from the SRA, he chose not to pass  it on to 
Novitas to settle the majority  of the loan. So, I think his choice here, kept the loan balance outstanding 
with Novitas.
In all the circumstances, I think Novitas had a responsibility to have stepped in sooner, to help Mr S, 
by recognising that incorrect information had been given to him, which induced  him to sign the loan 
agreement. I also think the outcome of the SRAs investigation should  have prompted Novitas to 
reduce Mr Ss liability to the interest accruing on the loan. So, I think  Novitas have caused Mr S upset, 
inconvenience and frustration. I think its fair for Novitas to pay Mr S £250 in compensation, to reflect 
the impact of what happened to him.
The settlement to the complaint
Having considered  all the evidence, I think Mr S signed the loan agreement  form because  of the 
incorrect information given to him about the insurance, by his former  solicitor. Had the solicitor 
explained the true position to him, Im persuaded that Mr S would have considered other options.
Mr S has received almost  a full refund,  from the SRA, for the lack of work carried  out by the solicitor. I 
acknowledge that Mr S felt he needed to use the refund to pay a different solicitor to take legal action 
on his behalf. But, I dont think its fair for the loan from Novitas to be written off, because Mr S made  
that decision. So, I think its fair for Mr S to repay Novitas the outstanding amount. In their dealings 
with Mr S, I remind Novitas of their responsibility to treat him positively and sympathetically, when  
discussing a repayment  plan.
Ive concluded that I dont think  its fair for Novitas to add any interest from when the loan was agreed 
in January 2016 onwards. So, I think any interest and fees already added by Novitas should be 
refunded and further interest shouldnt  be charged on the outstanding  balance.
Ive also concluded that the cost of the insurance  was added to the amount borrowed  by Mr S. So, 
similar to interest  charges  and fees added to the loan, I dont think  it would be fair for Mr S to have to 
repay the insurance cost back  to Novitas. I think Novitas should refund the cost of the insurance back  
to the loan account, to reduce the balance owed  by Mr S.
Mr S has explained about the impact this matter has had on him. Ive considered  this further and 
agree that he has been put to distress and inconvenience by Novitas.  But, I also have to consider the 
position Mr S was in, when  he was able to repay the majority of loan with Novitas, when he received 
payment from the SRA. In all the circumstances, I think Novitas should  pay Mr S £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience he has experienced.
I know my provisional decision  may not bring  about the total resolution that Mr S was hoping for. I 
acknowledge the personal circumstances he has told us about and agree  that it couldnt  have been 
an easy time for him. I hope  though, that Mr S can now find some sort of closure  with all that has 
happened.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive  from the parties by 1 
February 2021  is that I uphold this complaint. I propose to require  Novitas Loans Ltd to:
-refund the interest applied to the loan,  since it was agreed on 16 January 2016 to the date of 
settlement;
Ref: DRN08127378-cancel any further interest from being  applied  to the loan, from the date of settlement;
-refund the £5,000  insurance cost, back to the loan account;
-refund the £600 administration fee back to the loan account;
-engage with Mr S about  a repayment plan for the remaining loan balance, which takes into 
consideration his income and expenditure; and
-pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience  hes been caused.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0812737