K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1990. Mr and Mrs G say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
Santander was trading  as National & Provincial  at the time. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
the lender as Santander throughout my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G first took out their mortgage in 1986  and didnt  take PPI at that point.  They 
later took out a secured  loan in January 1990 and again didnt take PPI. In October 1990 
they took out PPI separate to any additional  borrowing.  
Mr and Mrs G say they were unaware PPI had been  added  to their secured loans. 
Santander has given  me a copy  of the PPI application  form that Mr G completed in    
October 1990. In this, Mr G selected  to take out accident and sickness cover only and chose 
not to also take out redundancy cover. He wrote his details  on the form and signed it to 
confirm his choice.  As Mr G had already had a mortgage and additional borrowing without 
PPI, I think  he was aware he didnt have  to have the insurance if he didnt want it. And 
looking at the application form, I think Mr G chose to take out the PPI policy.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the policy was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr G was self-employed at the time of the sale,  and 
looking at the policy document it wouldve been  more difficult  for him to claim on the 
redundancy cover. But Mr G chose not to take out the redundancy cover and I think its likely 
he chose this following  a conversation about his circumstances.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. 
Because Mr G was self-employed, he had no sick pay available to him. But the policy  
couldve covered  him for up to 24 months  per claim if he was too ill to work or had an 
accident. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs G off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs G paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Gs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
Ref: DRN05392972and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Gs commission  was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs G back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0539297