K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
rejecting their claim for medical  expenses  under  a travel insurance  policy. They want their 
claim paid.
background
Mr and Mrs O had an annual travel insurance  policy with UKI, which  was renewed.  Mr O fell 
ill while  away on holiday  in December 2018, and needed treatment for the pre-existing 
condition of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).  Mr and Mrs Os claim for 
medical expenses  was rejected by UKI; it said that they didnt declare that Mr O had COPD 
and the policy didnt cover  pre-existing medical conditions.  UKI denied that Mr and Mrs O 
had told it about  the COPD in June or July 2018.
Mr and Mrs O complained  to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. She noted  that there  was no evidence of a call with UKI in 2018 where Mr O 
disclosed his COPD, and that Mr O admitted in a call in January 2019  that theyd forgotten to 
call UKI about the condition. The investigator  said that there  was no evidence  the COPD  had 
been declared to UKI before the policy was taken out and the policy did exclude it; she 
pointed out that UKI in its renewal letter asked  to be updated about  medical  conditions,  
particularly before travel was undertaken.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed.  They said that Mr O did declare his COPD to UKI, but he called 
from work so couldnt provide evidence. They also said that COPD was similar to asthma, 
and UKI knew Mr O had that condition.  The investigator didnt change her view, and said she 
had considered how the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 
(CIDRA) dealt  with misrepresentations  by consumers. The investigator thought  the failure 
to declare Mr Os COPD was reckless as he was told in the policy  and renewal letters to tell 
UKI about any medical conditions, and noted Mr Os asthma wasnt  declared either. 
Mr and Mrs O still disagreed  and sent various reviews and reports about UKI for this service 
to read.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I looked at all the evidence available to me, and asked for further information from UKI 
before coming  to a decision. In particular, I asked for more information  about what  UKI knew 
about Mr Os medical conditions and when, and whether Mr O couldve got cover if he had 
fully disclosed his medical conditions when taking  out the policy.  UKI confirmed that it hadnt 
been told about Mr Os COPD or asthma,  and Mr O had admitted in a call that he hadnt  
declared the COPD.  This is confirmed  by the evidence before me. UKI also said Mr O 
couldve got cover, but only after paying  a higher premium, but pointed out that he hadnt  
declared the COPD and he knew that he shouldve.  UKI said as Mr O didnt contact it, there 
couldnt be a misrepresentation of his medical  condition.
Ref: DRN07224582I disagree with UKIs position about  misrepresentation  and I think the investigators  view is 
right. While the policy clearly excludes  undeclared pre-existing  medical  conditions,  a 
misrepresentation was made by omission  Mr O was told in the policy and renewal  letters to 
tell UKI about any medical conditions, and he didnt declare the COPD. Theres no dispute 
that Mr O suffered from COPD and shouldve declared it, and Mr O has admitted that he had 
not done so. COPD isnt the same as asthma, and I cant find that asthma  was declared as 
Mr O says on the basis of the evidence available.  Its reasonable and fair for UKI to say that 
the COPD  was an undeclared pre-existing medical  condition.
Under the terms and conditions  of the policy, such conditions arent covered under contract 
law (which means UKI can refuse the claim) but I also do need to think  about the law about  
misrepresentations by consumers. I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs O were asked to declare 
any pre-existing medical conditions at renewal, failed to do so and knew that they shouldve  
as it was relevant  information. A reasonable  consumer wouldve mentioned the COPD 
earlier, and I dont  think Mr and Mrs O took reasonable care.  Under CIDRA, if the failure to 
declare the pre-existing medical condition was reckless or deliberate, the insurer can refuse 
the claim and not return the premium. I think the failure to declare in this case was reckless, 
if not deliberate  - it was made clear that a pre-existing  medical  condition  needed to be 
declared, even at renewal  and prior to travel,  Mr O knew  that it hadnt been  declared and 
that the information was relevant to UKI.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0722458