K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Zurich Insurance  PLC (Zurich) unfairly  declined  her commercial 
insurance claim. To put things right,  Mrs B wants Zurich to pay her claim in accordance 
with the terms of her policy,  to pay interest on the settlement amount, and compensation 
for the trouble and upset  shes  experienced.
Mrs B brings her complaint on behalf  of her business S, a limited  company.
background
In August  2014,  there was a fire at Mrs Bs property (the Property ) that caused extensive  
damage. Mrs B claimed against her Zurich policy to cover the cost of repairs.  Zurich  rejected 
her claim and voided her policy,  saying  Mrs B had either misrepresented or not disclosed 
material facts.
Mrs B complained. She said there  had been  no non-disclosures or misrepresentations and 
that any information Zurich says was missing was caused by its failure to ask clear  
questions.
Zurich maintained its stance, so Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. Zurich 
objected to our service looking at the complaint, saying  we didnt have jurisdiction to do so 
because of the number of employees S had.
Zurich also said the dispute would be better suited to court,  because  of allegations it made 
about tax evasion that it felt should be tested  in court under cross-examination.
On 29 September  2016 our adjudicator issued an opinion, saying Mrs Bs complaint 
should be upheld.  He said Mrs Bs complaint did fall within  our jurisdiction, and he didnt 
agree the matter was better suited to court. He said Zurich should  reinstate the policy and 
settle the claim in accordance with the terms and conditions along with interest and 
compensation.
Jurisdiction and company  reinstatement
A different adjudicator  then looked at the complaint and decided it wasnt  one we could 
look at. He said that, because S had been dissolved  on 14 July 2015, it wasnt an eligible 
complainant for the purposes of the rules  our service must follow.
Mrs B disagreed. She said the ownership  of the underlying business  had remained  
unchanged. And that Mrs B was a direct beneficiary of the policy.
On 21 November 2016, another ombudsman at this service issued a decision,  saying that 
Mrs Bs complaint wasnt one we could consider. He said that S was not an eligible 
complainant as the company had been dissolved, so it didnt  exist.
On 3 July 2017,  Mrs B obtained a court order re-instating S to the Register of Companies. 
As a result of that court order, S is to be treated as never having been  dissolved. And so, 
our service  decided to take Mrs Bs complaint back to the last point before we said we 
couldnt consider  it.
Ref: DRN00805672At that time,  our adjudicator had issued an opinion  suggesting  Mrs Bs complaint should  be 
upheld. Zurich didnt  agree with our adjudicator. It repeated its previous arguments and 
suggested that, because S didnt own the Property in question, it was not able to make  a
claim at all. Zurich asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter  afresh.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2019. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mrs Bs complaint, Im 
minded not to uphold it for the following reasons.
Its a fundamental  principle of insurance law that, for a contract of insurance to be valid,  
the insured party must  have an insurable interest in the subject matter of the insurance 
policy. In this case, that means, for the insurance  policy to be valid, S must have some 
financial interest in the Property i.e. it must have something to lose if the Property suffers 
harm.
Zurich says that, because S didnt own the Property, and because the business traded as 
an unincorporated partnership, not through the limited  company,  S has no financial interest 
in the Property  and that the claim fails as a result.
Having looked  at the available  evidence, I havent  seen anything  that demonstrates S did 
have a financial interest in the Property. The Property is registered in the name of Mrs B 
and her father-in-law and so is not owned  by S. And Mrs Bs representatives have told me 
S doesnt have  a lease of the Property.
My understanding is that tax on the underlying  businesss  earnings  is declared as a 
partnership in the names of Mrs B and her father-in-law. And I have seen Mrs Bs 
certificate of registration for VAT from HM Revenue & Customs, which  lists the legal entity 
as a partnership.
Mrs B has sent me several documents addressed to S, including  a waste removal bill, a 
water bill and an electricity  bill. But those documents alone  dont  demonstrate a financial 
interest and Mrs B hasnt  provided me with anything that shows S made payments 
towards any such invoices or in connection with the business at all.
The Direct Debit payment  schedule  for the policy shows  the policy premiums were  paid by 
an account in Mrs Bs name, not in the name of S. I have  seen  a bank statement in the 
name of S, so I can see it opened  an account. But there is no activity on the statement, 
save for a static balance  of £5. And I havent seen anything that demonstrates S had any 
financial dealings with the business or even commenced trading.
I have also seen various other invoices, such as business rates  and water  rates,  addressed 
to Mrs B and her father-in-law, without mention of S. And Mrs Bs representative has told 
me that the limited company was only registered with Companies House so Mrs B could 
hold onto the name.
Mrs B has provided me with a license to play music at the Property,  in the name of S. But 
that license has no value in terms of income, so S does not lose out because  it is no longer 
possible to play music at the premises.
Ref: DRN00805673I understand why Mrs B thinks  its unfair  that Zurich has rejected her claim.  And I recognise 
she has lost her business and livelihood as a result of the fire. But she shouldnt feel like 
shes losing  out on a technicality.  From  all Ive seen, the insured party, S, simply isnt 
entitled to claim under  the policy.
The evidence Ive been provided with tells me Mrs Bs business was run as an 
unincorporated partnership, and not through S. S didnt own the Property its now seeking 
to claim for, it didnt pay for the insurance policy and it hasnt lost anything as a result of 
the fire. And I havent seen  anything else to demonstrate that S had a financial interest in 
the Property,  sufficient  to qualify as an insurable  interest.
Where an insured party has taken out a policy, without having  an insurable interest, the 
insurer is entitled to cancel the policy and treat it as if it were never in place.  In this case, 
that means Zurich is entitled to decline Mrs Bs claim.
Because Ive said Zurich  can treat Mrs Bs policy as if it didnt exist,  it should also refund  
any premiums  paid by or on behalf of S.
Jurisdiction and dismissal
When Zurich asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter  afresh,  it said S didnt 
meet the definition of a micro enterprise  under the FCAs handbook,  and so it wasnt an 
eligible complainant.
Section 2.7.3 of the FCA handbook (available  online) provides that an eligible complainant  
to the Financial Ombudsman Service  must  either be a consumer  or a micro enterprise. In 
order for our service  to be able to consider Mrs Bs complaint,  S must meet  the definition  of 
a micro enterprise.
The FCA handbook  defines a micro enterprise  
as: an enterprise which:
(a)employs fewer than 10 persons; and
(b)has a turnover or annual balance sheet  that does not exceed €2 million
Zurich contends that S has more than 10 employees  (11), including  Mrs B and her 
husband. It relies on a document provided  my Mrs B entitled  list of employees from 1st 
January 2012  to - 24 August 14 that names nine employees, excluding Mrs B and her 
husband.
Because the complaint  is brought  on behalf  of S, and because of what  I have said above 
about the status of S, it seems to me that any employees were employed by an 
unincorporated partnership. And so, S had no employees, with the possible exception of its 
two directors.
So, Im satisfied that S has fewer than 10 employees for the purposes of section 2.7.3 of 
the FCA handbook. And so, S can be considered  as a micro enterprise.
Dismissal
Ref: DRN00805674Zurich also said there  are allegations of serious  fraudulent activity to be determined.  And 
that the Financial  Ombudsman Service should  dismiss  the complaint, as those  issues  are 
better dealt  with under oath in court.
As I have said, I cant see any evidence that S has ever traded or paid VAT,  or any other 
taxes. The reason  it has not paid such taxes is because its not liable to do so: any tax 
liabilities fall on the unincorporated partnership. As there are no allegations of tax evasion  
against S, it follows that it would not be appropriate  for me to dismiss the complaint. And 
Im satisfied that this complaint is one I can properly  address.
I asked Mrs B and Zurich to provide any further  submissions  or evidence by 27 November 
2019. Zurich accepted  my provisional  decision and said it had nothing further to add.
Mrs B didnt accept my provisional  decision. In summary,  she said:
If her case is looked at from a fair and reasonable perspective, she meets  the test 
for insurable interest  because she owns both the Property and S, so she has lost out;
Her situation is comparable to that of a property thats rented through  a basic 
commercial arrangement whereby the property  is in the name  of the tenant  but the 
contract of insurance is in the name of the commercial entity; and
If its right that she has no insurable interest,  the policy was mis-sold as it didnt meet  
her demands and needs, and she relied on the broker  to provide a suitable  policy.  
And that the broker  is an agent  of Zurich,  so Zurich is responsible for its actions.
Mrs B asked me to reconsider  my decision and uphold her complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs B says she has an insurable interest  because she owns  both the Property  and the 
policyholder (S). So, looking past the pure legal approach and considering  our services fair 
and reasonable principles, Mrs B says her situation  provides the required relationship to 
meet the test for insurable interest.
Mrs B is right in saying our service has a fair and reasonable remit and that we dont decide 
complaints purely  based on the letter of the law. That remit comes from section 3.6 of the 
DISP rules of the FCA handbook (available online),  which says:
3.6.1 The Ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference  to what is, in his 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
3.6.4 In considering  what is fair and reasonable the Ombudsman will take into 
account: 
     (1) relevant:
          (a) law and regulations;
          (b) regulators rules, guidance  and standards;
          (c) codes of practice; and
Ref: DRN00805675(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
When I reached my provisional findings, I did so based on what I thought was fair and 
reasonable to both parties. In the circumstances of this particular case,  while the legal  
position isnt the only matter I have to consider, I havent seen anything to persuade me that 
it would  be reasonable to depart from the established legal principle of insurable  interest.
I acknowledge that Mrs B owns both S and the Property. And that Mrs B has lost her 
business as a result of the fire. But the fact that the policy was in the name  of S, which  had 
no financial  interest in the Property is fatal to the claim. If I were to agree with what  Mrs B 
has said, I would effectively be transferring the benefit of the policy from S to Mrs B which I 
cant reasonably  do in this case.
Mrs B also compares her situation to that of a landlord and tenant arrangement whereby a 
property is insured by a landlord but is in the tenants name. But in that scenario, the 
landlord would have an insurable interest  as the legal owner of the property. The property 
would only be in the tenants name by way of a tenancy agreement or lease of some  kind.  
That simply grants a right of possession  and doesnt extinguish the landlords ownership.
But in any event, I can only consider the facts of the case put before me. And, for the 
reasons Ive said above, S cant claim against the policy  because  it didnt have an insurable 
interest.
Finally Mrs B said that, in light of my provisional  findings, the policy  didnt meet her needs. 
She says the broker shouldve  addressed  the issue of ownership at the point of sale, that 
she relied on the broker to advise her appropriately  and that Zurich is responsible for the 
brokers actions.
So, Mrs B is raising two potential issues: that the broker  has made a mistake, and that 
Zurich is responsible for the brokers actions. Because the complaint  Im looking at is against 
Zurich, any complaint about the broker must be dealt with separately. If Mrs B wishes to 
complain about  the brokers  actions, she must first contact the broker to put her complaint to 
it. The broker will then have the opportunity to respond to the complaint, before Mrs B can 
ask our service to look at it.
The same applies for Mrs Bs complaint that Zurich is responsible for the brokers  actions. 
When Mrs B first brought her complaint to our service, she complained  that Zurich had 
declined her insurance claim. Thats the complaint Zurich responded to and is the complaint 
our service  has addressed. She didnt complain  that shed been mis-sold the policy or that 
Zurich is responsible for the brokers actions.
Because Mrs B hasnt  previously raised  this complaint with Zurich, Im not able to consider it. 
Mrs B may say that she couldnt have known  about this aspect of her complaint until 
recently. And Im not suggesting  otherwise,  but the rules our service must follow state that a 
business must be given  the opportunity to respond to a complaint,  before we address it. So I 
cant consider the matter  as part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00805676my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Mrs Bs claim. But I am 
asking it to refund any premiums paid by or on behalf of S in respect of the policy in 
question.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0080567