K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited (Startline) has been of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mrs Bs complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
Mrs B took receipt of a used car in May 2018. She financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Startline.  At the point of supply  the car had already completed over 72,700 
miles and was about five years old.
Mrs B had some problems with the car. As follows:
In July 2018 the Exhaust  Gas Recirculation  (EGR)  valve and the turbo was replaced.  ;
In late July she complained to Startline. She said she wanted  to reject the car because  
further faults had arisen. She explained  that the car was going into limp mode and the 
Engine Management Light (EML) was on.
Startline organised an independent  inspection which was conducted on 2 August 2018. 
During the inspection the car was driven for five miles on mixed roads and at speeds up to 
50 miles per hour. The inspector could not identify  any faults and said the car was road 
worthy.
So a few days later, still experiencing  the fault, Mrs B took the car to a dealership who 
specialised in her make of car. They diagnosed a fault with the brake switch that was 
sending a signal to the engine to reduce power.  She therefore contacted Startline again. She 
explained that the problem was only evident  at higher speeds than the car was tested at. 
She said she hadnt had the car repaired but had simply had the fault diagnosed. 
There was a delay  of a few months whilst Startline tried to get answers from the independent 
engineer. During  this period Mrs B was still experiencing problems with the car and she told 
Startline she wasnt using  it. When Startline  could not get any answers from the independent  
inspector they arranged  another  independent  inspection. 
The second  inspection took place on 5 November 2018. The inspector  drove  the car for 
12 miles and at higher  speeds but could  not identify any faults. He said it was road worthy.  
So Startline wrote to Mrs B and, in their final response on the matter, they said that as the 
inspector had found no fault they could only assume  the dealership had fixed  the problem 
Mrs B reported to them in August.
On 15 November 2018 Mrs B had the repairs completed that the dealership  had identified.  A 
modified stop light and wiring loom were fitted. She referred her complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator provided his opinion. 
He noted that two independent experts hadnt  been  able to identify any problems with 
Mrs Bs car. He understood  that it had now failed its MOT but he didnt think it would be fair 
to conclude the faults now present were  there  at the point Mrs B took receipt of the vehicle. 
Ref: DRN02642972He thought the faults that had now been demonstrated were not unusual on a vehicle of this 
age and mileage  and he therefore  didnt  think Startline  needed  to take any further action.
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicator. She said the limp mode problem was intermittent and 
may not have shown  up during an independent  inspection. She said shed had many faults 
with the car and she didnt think it was fair to be paying for a car that simply sat on the 
driveway. She explained that the car had now failed  its MOT and that some  parts  required 
were no longer available.  So she said she was being asked to pay for a car that was no 
longer working  or road legal. She therefore  asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the adjudicators opinion and Im expecting  to uphold  Mrs Bs 
complaint. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs B. The car 
here was around  five years old and had travelled about 73,000  miles.
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.  
But Startlines responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Ref: DRN02642973The relevant  legislation  would encourage us to assume that if a car developed a fault in the 
first six months it was likely to have been  there from the point of supply. The relevant 
legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Its not disputed  that the EGR  valve and the turbo were replaced within a couple of months  
of the inception of the agreement. I think, in those  circumstances the business were entitled  
to repair  the fault that legislation would encourage us to assume was present, or developing,  
at the point of supply.
The business did repair  that fault so at that point  theyd  done nothing wrong. But thereafter  I 
think things did go wrong.
Mrs B complained of the car going into limp mode at the end of July. I think Startline were  
therefore right to commission an independent  inspection to show  what  was happening. But 
when the inspector found nothing amiss and Mrs B took the car to the garage I think  Startline 
should have paid more attention to the issue the garage identified.
They were  a dealership who specialised in the make of car Mrs B had. They identified a 
problem and it was therefore for Startline to dispute that this fault occurred or to take further 
action to support  Mrs B.
There followed an unacceptable  delay of three  months whilst a further  inspection  was 
arranged. I understand  this inspector  could  not find a fault with the car but subsequently 
Mrs B had the fault with the brake switch repaired.  The invoice from the dealership  was 
dated 15 November  (after the independent  inspection) and confirms that a wiring loom  and 
modified stop switch  were fitted.
I think this demonstrates that a further  fault was present and that Mrs B should have been 
allowed to reject the car when this further  fault was identified in August 2018 when shed 
only had the car for three months and had only completed a couple of thousand miles in the 
vehicle. Relevant  legislation  does not give a business one chance  to repair  each separate  
fault that may occur. Whether a vehicle  is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers  to the 
vehicle as a whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults - the 
more likely it is the vehicle  isnt of satisfactory  quality.
Regardless of the vehicles  age I dont think a fault that meant the car fell into limp mode 
would be considered acceptable by a reasonable person. So I think  its fair to say this fault, 
initially diagnosed  in August 2018,  meant the vehicle was of unsatisfactory  quality.
I understand that the independent experts didnt  find issue with the vehicle. But it seems  
clear that something  was wrong as the main dealership  had to make repairs  to the wiring 
loom and switch.
And even  if Im wrong  about  the limp mode  fault I still think  theres good reason to allow 
Ref: DRN02642974Mrs B to reject the car. I say that because I dont think  its been  shown  to be suitably 
durable. Mrs B has now only completed about 3,300  miles in the car since  she took receipt 
of it in the spring of 2018. Ive seen records of many issues with the car in this time that I 
dont think a reasonable person would  think  meant  the car was durable. As follows:
EGR  valve  cracked
turbo replaced
wiring loom and stop light switch  replaced
brake wear within first few months
wheel  bearing  failure
suspension arm bush  and pin worn
drive shaft joint worn
constant velocity joint deteriorating
So, I think this car has not been of satisfactory quality and Ive therefore  thought  about what  
Startline should  do to put things right.
Mrs B asked to reject  the car on 30 July 2018. I think  she should have been allowed to do so 
once the fault was identified. That was during a diagnostic carried  out by the dealership on 
6 August 2018.  
They should  allow  Mrs B to terminate her finance agreement and allow her to reject the car. 
I think its clear  that Mrs B has had very little use of the vehicle. Im therefore asking Startline 
to refund all the finance instalments shes made  towards her agreement from August 2018.  
Mrs B has driven the car about 2,000  miles in that time but its not been trouble  free mileage. 
Shes clearly still been experiencing  difficulties  and I therefore think its fair a refund is 
applied for the whole period to compensate  Mrs B for lack of use. Theyll need to add 
interest to this payment to compensate Mrs B for being deprived of that cash.
Its also clear  Mrs B has been inconvenienced by making this complaint and having to have 
her own diagnostics done. Shes also had to attend the garage on several  occasions  to have 
work completed and shes been left waiting for a further independent  inspection  for several 
months. So, I think Startline should compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience their 
actions have caused and, in the circumstances, I think  £300  is reasonable.
Mrs B paid a deposit towards her finance  agreement. This should  be returned to her along 
with interest. Mrs B has been  deprived of this money  and will need it to secure  an alternative 
vehicle.
my provisional decision
Im expecting to tell Startline Motor  Finance  Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs B;
return the deposit and add 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
return all monthly finance instalments paid from August 2018 and add 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs B £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
Ref: DRN02642975remove any adverse reports they may have made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Mrs B accepted my provisional decision and Startline didnt respond so Ive seen no reason 
to change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Startline Motor  Finance 
Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs B;
return the deposit and add 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
return all monthly finance instalments paid from August 2018 and add 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs B £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0264297