K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say they were mis-sold a regular  premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. Santander UK Plc (Santander) have taken responsibility for the sale.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint mortgage at the end of 1993.  At the same  time they took out a 
regular premium PPI policy to cover their mortgage  payments  if they were  unable to work  
due to accident or sickness or lost their jobs. Santander have taken responsibility for the sale 
so to keep things simple  I have referred  to Santander as the business who sold the policy  
throughout my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think there  
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought 
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B disagree. They say they were wrongly  advised  and werent told the policy was 
optional. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
The sale took place  over 25 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs B say the policy was sold during a meeting  and that they just filled in the forms 
that were given to them. Santander have told us that to take PPI Mr and Mrs B wouldve had 
to sign a separate declaration confirming  they wanted PPI. Santander  hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of the declaration but it has given us a copy of the PPI leaflet  it says 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve been given at the time.  
Ive looked at this carefully and I think it presents PPI as optional  and separate  from the 
mortgage. While I cant say exactly what was discussed at the time of the sale I think  its 
likely that the normal  sales  process  wouldve been  followed  and that Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
been made aware that PPI was optional as that is how it is presented in the leaflet. And I 
think PPI was likely taken  because they chose to take it by signing the PPI declaration.
To be fair to Mr and Mrs B I am treating  the sale of PPI as if it was an advised sale.  What 
this means is that Santander not only had to provide information about  PPI in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs B could make an informed choice about buying  
PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to 
their needs  and circumstances.
Ref: DRN06230992I dont know if Santander did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B for the following reasons:
From  what we know about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances I think they wouldve been 
eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like they wouldve been caught  by any of the 
main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made it difficult 
to make a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs B say when they tried claim on the policy  they were told there was a nine 
month waiting period.  Ive checked  the policy terms and conditions  and the waiting 
period is two months. I understand Santander is willing  to let Mr and Mrs B put in a 
backdated claim for this should  they wish to do so.
Mr and Mrs B say they were entitled to some  sick pay and had savings and a pension  
they could use to make their mortgage  payments if they were  unable to work.  But the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer covering them  for up to 
24 months if they couldnt work  due to accident or sickness  or lost their jobs. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs B in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs B at the 
time. 
I also need to consider  whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs B information  in a way which  
was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if Santander did give all the information  as it shouldve. But for the same 
reasons that the policy was suitable  and based on what Mr and Mrs B have told us about 
their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve  still taken out the PPI policy if theyd 
been given all the proper information.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN06230993my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0623099