K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Aviva Insurance  Limited badly handled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr D held an Aviva motor  insurance policy. His wife, Mrs D, was covered by the policy.  In 
September 2018 she was involved in a collision with another  vehicle. So there was a claim 
on the policy. 
Whilst the claim was ongoing Mr D complained to Aviva. He had a number of concerns. Ive 
listed a few. It wasnt dealing with the claim quickly  enough. It provided incorrect and 
misleading information. Aviva wasnt doing  enough  to make the case  that Mrs D wasnt  at 
fault. He wasnt  happy  with its response  to a Subject  Access Request (SAR) he made.  Mr D 
wants Aviva  to compensate him for the trouble and upset its caused.
In response to the complaint Aviva  said it had handled the claim in a reasonable way. A few 
months after that response the other drivers  insurer accepted liability for the incident.  The 
claim was then closed  as non-fault with no claims bonus unaffected. 
Our Investigator  considered Mr Ds complaint. He thought Aviva had handled the claim in a 
fair and reasonable way. He didnt  recommend  it pay Mr D any compensation or do anything  
differently. Mr D didnt accept the assessment.  So the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Aviva pay 
Mr D any compensation or do anything  differently.  
I said above that Mr Ds raised a number of concerns. Hes also referred to a range of emails 
and actions taken.  As this is an informal service I havent responded here to every point or 
email provided. Ive just addressed what I see as the key issues. But Id like to assure Mr D 
that I have  considered everything thats been  provided.  
Under Mr Ds policy  Aviva  has the right to take over and conduct a claim. It can handle  a 
claim as it sees  fit. That means it might make  a decision or do something Mr D disagrees 
with - but the policy allows it to do so. But this service can consider if Aviva acted in line with 
the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way. I think it did.  
Mr D feels things happened  too slowly. He says Aviva didnt deal with the claim swiftly 
enough. In response  it says it dealt with matters in a reasonable way. 
In my experience when  neither party accepts  fault, like in this case, it often  takes a while  for 
liability to be settled. Looking through Avivas notes I cant say it failed to pursue  the matter  
in a reasonable way. The notes show contact between the two insurers and exchanges of 
information. Perhaps some things could have been done a few days  earlier. But things 
seemed to happen at a reasonable pace overall.  There wasnt  any significant delay.
Ref: DRN04825982Mr D seems to believe the claim should  have  been  settled as non-fault almost  straight  away. 
He feels it didnt do enough to make the case that Mrs D wasnt at fault. But Aviva cant  force 
the other drivers insurer  to accept liability  even  if its driver did at the time of the incident. 
The other drivers insurer claimed  Mrs D was at fault  it said she made an inappropriate 
manoeuvre that caused the collision. There doesnt seem to be any CCTV footage  or 
independent witnesses to support either side. Because of this Aviva  was concerned it might 
not be successful  if the case  went to court.  It explained that to Mr D. It said the claim  might  
end up being settled as both drivers being equally  at fault for the incident   50/50 liability.  I 
dont think it acted unreasonably by considering the strengths of the competing  sides  
positions - or by explaining its thoughts on the matter to Mr D.
 
According to Mr D, Aviva provided incorrect information about admission of liability.  I accept  
thats possible. Its also possible Aviva didnt respond to Mr Ds SAR or other  information  
request in the way it should have.  But this service doesnt just consider if a business did 
something wrong. We also look at whether its customer lost out as a result of any mistake. 
But it doesnt seem  Mr D did lose out financially. 
There doesnt seem to have been  any negative impact on the outcome of the claim. The 
other drivers  insurer  accepted liability  and the claim  was recorded as non-fault. I also cant 
see that any mistakes caused  unnecessary delay to the claim. There may have been some 
inconvenience to Mr D. But not enough  for me to feel Aviva should pay any compensation.   
Aviva handled  the claim fairly and reasonably. So Im not going to make  it pay Mr D any 
compensation or do anything differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Aviva Insurance Limited do anything  differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0482598