K820x#14complaint
Mr A took out a Gold Account  (GA) with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  some time in the early  to 
mid 1990s and he says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr A took out the following accounts  with Lloyds:
Account Type Date of sale/change
Current Fee free September 1992
Gold Account Fee charged Early to mid 1990s
Current Fee free March 2009
Mr A says that he has no knowledge of being told he would be charged  a fee for the GA. He 
says that he didnt use the benefits of the GA. For a period after 2003,  the account  was a 
joint account.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lloyds mis-sold the account. Mr A disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr As complaint.
Ill first consider whether Mr A knew he had a choice about taking out the GA; then whether 
Lloyds acted correctly  when making the sale and in the years that followed.
Lloyds has provided  evidence that Mr A had had a fee free bank account for some  years 
before he took out the GA. So in my view he would have been aware that fee free bank 
accounts were available to him from Lloyds and others at the time of the sale.
The GA had no insurances  in the early to mid 1990s.The GA product was offered to those 
with a substantial  income  and offered an automatic overdraft of £2500 and up to £10,000 by 
arrangement. Mr A told Lloyds that he recalls this being the product offering. The GA at that 
time also included  up to £500  cash withdrawal,  some commission  free currency,  a gold 
service payment card and a cheque guarantee of up to £250.
Lloyds has no records of Mr As accounts until September 2001, which is understandable  
due to the substantial passage of time.  From  September 2001, the records show that for 
many years Mr A ran a very large authorised overdraft  up at the top end of the overdraft limit 
available. So I think its more likely than not that the very high overdraft limit was of interest  to 
Mr A in the early to mid 1990s.
As Mr A was an experienced user of banking facilities, I dont think  he would have expected 
to get the GA for nothing.  I have  no evidence that Lloyds systemically  just gave GAs to 
their customers. Although  the account  had a fee waiver if a high balance  was maintained on 
the account, Ive found above that I think Mr A wouldve been interested  in the high overdraft 
facility so I think he would have incurred the account  fees. And I think its more  likely than not 
Ref: DRN08237572Mr A would have noticed the account fee appear on his statements and would have  queried  
the fee if he hadnt chosen the account.
So I dont  think I can say that its more likely than not Mr A had no knowledge that he taken 
out a GA and was paying a monthly fee for it, as I would need to if I were to uphold  his 
complaint on this point.      
So in my view he was aware he had a choice  about  whether  to take out the GA for a monthly  
fee or not and he chose to do so.
Lloyds advised  Mr A to take out the GA which was sold in a branch. So the requirement on 
Lloyds was to provide  sufficient information to Mr A to make  an informed choice about the 
GA and to check whether the account was suitable  for him.
As Ive found above that its more  likely  than not he was interested in a very large overdraft, 
the recommendation to take out the account  wouldve been suitable. And he appears  to 
recall the detail of the product now, so I think its more likely than not that he got enough  
information about it to make  his choice.
So my finding  is that Lloyds  did nothing  wrong in the sale of the GA in the early to mid 
1990s. 
Ill next consider  whether Lloyds did anything  wrong  on the GA after the sale.
From 1996  to April 2004, Lloyds has provided  evidence that the fee for the account was £8 
per month.
There is no evidence that the GA changed before July 1997.  But from 1997, a series of 
product offerings, including  worldwide travel insurance were added  to the account for no 
extra monthly fee. Lloyds says it informed Mr A about these in multiple updates. I think  its 
more likely than not that he received most of these. And it was for him to decide whether he 
wanted to continue with the GA or not as he could close the account  any month he chose. 
From April 2004 to March 2009, when he did close the account,  the fee was increased  and 
other products such as mobile phone insurance and car breakdown cover were added. 
Lloyds says it informed  him of these in multiple  updates and I think  its more likely than not 
that he received  most of these.
So although  Mr A says that he didnt use the benefits, I dont think  Lloyds  did anything wrong 
in originally selling the GA to him or developing the product and changing the price.
For completeness, I note that Mr A has referred to other bank charges he may want to 
challenge. This decision is only about the sale and fees for the GA. For anything else Mr A 
would need to complain to Lloyds  first and then this service could consider the complaint if 
its unresolved.
So overall, I dont  think that Lloyds mis-sold the GA to Mr A or that he lost out as a result of 
anything Lloyds did or didnt do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN08237573Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0823757