K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  wont  refund transactions  he 
says he didnt make from his account.
background
Mr M contacted Halifax on 31 January 2018 to say that he had lost his debit  card. He says 
he found out that two cash withdrawals of £200  and a payment to a retailer  for £380  had 
been made earlier that day with the card. He wanted this money to be refunded and he 
reported what happened to police.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding the money.  The transactions  had been made  with the 
genuine card and the correct PIN. Mr M said he hadnt disclosed his PIN to anyone or written 
it down. So it held him responsible.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld  having considered further  
information provided by Halifax  during the investigation. He said that:
-One of the cash withdrawals was made  at 00:34 that day. But he could see that Mr M 
had made genuine  payments in the early hours before which  included  one for petrol  
at that same location on 22 January  2018. Mr M has said that was when a relative of 
his had been ill and hed been  travelling to support her.
-Mr M is represented  in this complaint and his representative had provided evidence  
to show when he was logged into a computer system at home. That started  at 01:25 
that day and so didnt show he was at home  when the withdrawal was made.
-The last genuine  payment using  the card had been clarified by Halifax to be at 19:52 
on 29 January 2018  at a petrol  station  kiosk. If someone had been able to take his 
card and see Mr Ms PIN it was unlikely theyd have  waited the 28 hours  before first 
using the card.
-He thought is most likely Mr M had made  the payments or given authority for 
someone else to use his card.
-He had provided Mr Ms representative  with the evidence from Halifax hed relied  on. 
Mr M had questioned a payment to a newsagents  for £11.40  that didnt appear on the 
authorisation information. Halifax  had said that due to the amount it might not have 
needed to be authorised  or the system  could have been down.
Mr M didnt  agree. His representative said that Mr M had mobility issues and was unlikely to 
have been out in icy weather on that night. And there were cashpoints  nearer to his home. 
Him having  been  to the same location before wasnt evidence and wouldnt stand up to court  
scrutiny. He didnt think Halifax had complied  with the Payment Services  Regulations as it 
was up to it to prove that Mr M had authorised the payments. He had kept his PIN safe. And 
it might  have taken time for a fraudster  to discover his PIN perhaps  when  CCTV could be 
viewed by an employee at the petrol  station.  
The audit information from Halifax was challenged.  The file sent to this service  had 
information embedded showing  that it had been edited at Halifax  for seven minutes and that 
it was the fifth version. There  was no information to show  when a payment of £11.40 to a 
newsagents had been made. And an attempt had been made to use the card at 00:30 on     
1 February 2018  after it had been reported  missing.  His representative  had shown Mr M had 
called him at 13:24 on 31 January 2018 to say he was outside his property as they were  
Ref: DRN00953992going to a market together. It was unlikely he could have got to the representatives house 
by then given  the time and location of the last disputed transaction at 12:54 that day. 
Mr M was also unhappy that Halifax had only provided information during our investigation  
when it should  have done this when he contacted it. That in itself was reason to refund this 
money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has responded to the points made about the audit  information. It said that the 
document used  has information directly exported from its system. It would be time 
consuming to doctor this as is alleged. And there  is only evidence  of seven minutes of 
editing which records a number identifying the person who did this. It believes this was when 
yellow highlighting was added  to the document. And the same  details  had been  provided in 
different reports by different members of staff. It wasnt  able to say what time the payment to 
the newsagents happened but can say when it was processed to Mr Ms account.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if the payments werent 
authorised Mr M wouldnt generally  be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mr M either authorise the payments  on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Halifax says?
I appreciate that the information  provided  by Halifax has been challenged. Putting to one 
side the times of the transactions I am satisfied that to make the cash withdrawals the 
genuine card and correct PIN would be needed. The audit shows that the chip on the card 
was read for all the payments.  And weve not seen evidence of a chip being cloned for 
general use. In any event  the genuine  card being present is consistent with Mr M saying hed 
lost it. So Im satisfied the payments were authenticated.
I understand why Mr M and his representative are sceptical about the times of the 
transactions. The initial information provided about  the genuine usage of the card had the 
time that the transactions were applied to Mr Ms account not when they were  authorised.  
The last genuine  one was applied only six hours before the first disputed  payment and so 
was more consistent with usage  by a fraudster. But Halifax says it was authorised 28 hours 
earlier. I cant be certain that the extracts  of systems  information are correct.  But I agree that 
changing it would be a significant exercise  in relation to the amount involved here. So I 
accept Halifaxs evidence  about timing and I am also accepting Mr Ms evidence about  when  
he was logged onto his computer system at home and when  he called his representative 
even though that could  be fallible too. While it would have been  helpful  to have all Halifaxs 
evidence from the start I dont see that as a factor that affects my reasoning here.
Ref: DRN00953993I cant know exactly what happened. I need to think about what is most  likely. And I 
appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr M and his representative who are sure he didnt 
make the payments and want Halifax to prove that he did.
There is no evidence that there were  any incorrect PIN attempts. The cash withdrawals were  
both preceded by balance  enquiries.  Almost all of the available money  was taken out of the 
account. But there was a gap after the last genuine  payment before the first disputed  use. 
And then also after that one before the other  disputed payments about  12 hours later.  I cant  
know exactly how a fraudster might  behave but it seems most likely to me that the aim would 
be to get as much money as quickly as possible.
I know that his representative  says Mr M would have no reason  to go out at that time given 
his age and that he has mobility issues.  And that he could  have  gone  to a closer  location if 
hed wanted cash. I understand that but the evidence is that he had done so before when he 
needed to visit a relative and had made payments  in the early hours including at the same  
location. So although that doesnt prove  anything  about these disputed payments it helps me 
when thinking  about what is most likely.
There is no CCTV evidence and Halifax had said it wouldnt  be collecting this for a cash  
machine operated by a third party.  I can see a case note that Mr Ms representative said 
during a call with this service on 24 April 2019 that the police had told them  CCTV didnt help 
with a criminal enquiry. Im not going to place too much reliance on what  was noted  here as 
Ive not seen the CCTV. But it is often  the case that it doesnt help resolve anyway whether 
the person making a payment was acting  with authority or not.
I have balanced  all the factors in reaching  a decision. The evidence provided  to support 
where Mr M was around the time of the payments doesnt in my view rule out him not being  
able to make  them.  And the evidence here doesnt indicate to me that the most likely  
explanation is that an unknown third party obtained  both his card and PIN. Mr Ms not put 
forward any explanation  of how someone  close to him could have done so and used it 
without his authority.  I think the most likely  explanation of all is that he consented to his card 
being used either by making the payments  himself  or allowing someone  else to use it. So I 
find that the payments were authorised. I appreciate how disappointed he will be by my 
conclusion that Halifax does not need  to take any further action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0095399