K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the poor service and inadequate  information he received from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  (MBFS).
background
In November 2015 Mr M took receipt  of a new car. He financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  he signed with MBFS.
In August  2018  he visited the dealership and was informed he could voluntarily terminate  
(VT) his agreement because hed paid more than half of the sum due. So he called MBFS 
but was disappointed with the service he received from them. He said he was initially  told he 
couldnt VT but eventually MBFS conceded that he could but a mark would be put on his 
credit file. He signed the VT forms in August 2018 but he says the whole experience made  
him feel uneasy and that it all came across as if MBFS  didnt want him to hand the car back. 
He explained  that MBFS suggested  that only people in financial difficulty VT but he thought 
this was wrong and noted that there was no mention in his finance agreement about  a mark 
being placed on his credit file.
So Mr M complained to MBFS but they didnt uphold  his complaint. They said that voluntary 
termination legislation was there  to protect customers  in financial difficulty  and was not a tool 
used to allow customers to come out of their contract early. So a mark would be placed on a 
consumers credit file for six years.
But Mr M was dissatisfied  with their response  and he referred his complaint to this service 
where our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She listened to the call recordings of Mr Ms 
conversations with MBFS and she noted  that the agent had told Mr M he could VT and had 
sent a follow  up email to explain the VT process.  This explained the mark it would leave on 
the credit  file. She didnt agree with MBFS that VT was necessarily  for those  in financial 
difficulty. She explained it was a consumers right. She understood that Mr M was frustrated 
that the credit mark wasnt  explained in his contract  but she noted that it had been explained 
to him before  he chose to VT his agreement so she didnt think MBFS had been  unfair.  
Overall, she didnt think MBFS had done  anything substantially wrong. She said they tried to 
understand his request and completed  the VT in a timely manner and she was confident  that 
Mr M now understood the VT process  and that the credit mark was neither a good or bad 
thing.
But Mr M was still dissatisfied and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M but I agree  with the adjudicators opinion. Please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN07154822Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The right of voluntary  termination is set out in sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 and was therefore a term of Mr Ms finance  agreement. It allows the consumer to 
hand the goods back to the finance provider during the term of the agreement. After 
returning the goods the consumer will still owe any arrears, meaning they will have to make 
any payments they've  missed up to that point. But once they've paid the arrears, they won't  
have to pay any more  than half the total amount payable under the agreement.
Ive listened to the conversations  Mr M had with MBFS. I think  there  was some confusion 
from both sides. Mr M had been advised by the dealership to call MBFS and discuss 
handing the vehicle back but Mr M wasnt to know the mechanism for that return  was 
through the VT process.  And when he told MBFS he was simply handing the vehicle back 
they were understandably confused as they didnt  know what the dealership had told him 
and didnt initially understand  this was a voluntary termination request. I dont think  MBFS 
said anything wrong or misled Mr M in these conversations although I can understand
Mr Ms frustration  when  he found himself having  to explain the dealerships  rationale.  It may 
have been easier  for the dealership to be present so they could explain the technicalities.
MBFS subsequently wrote to Mr M and explained the VT process.  They also explained the 
credit marker and again I dont think they did anything wrong  when mentioning that. The VT 
right is a consumer right and whilst it may be invoked by those in financial difficulty I also see 
it regularly used in other  circumstances such as Mr Ms. I dont think MBFS needed to 
mention the credit marker  in the finance  agreement  they did do when they explained the 
VT process and Mr M was therefore  aware  of the process.
I can see that Mr M was able to VT his agreement and in a reasonable time frame.  So I cant  
see he was financially disadvantaged and I dont think theres evidence  here that MBFS did 
anything wrong  or need to take any additional action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715482