K820x#14complaint
Mr F disputes the end of lease charges that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) applied when 
he returned a car he had been financing through them.  He says their pursuit of the debt has 
damaged his credit rating and has been  unreasonable.
background
Mr F took receipt  of a new car in July 2009.  He financed the deal through a hire agreement 
with PSA.  The car was returned  in July 2012  and an inspector identified damage to the car 
which PSA said was beyond normal wear  and tear. They said the terms of Mr Fs contract 
required him to pay refurbishment  costs.
Mr F disputed those  costs and in the meantime his account was passed to debt collection  
and eventually returned to PSA. They agreed to waive the outstanding balance on the 
account as a gesture of goodwill but they didnt remove the adverse reports theyd made  to 
Mr Fs credit files.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. She 
reviewed pictures of the damage that the inspector had highlighted in 2012. She agreed that 
the damage was beyond  what  would  be considered  fair wear  and tear under the industry 
guidelines, supplied  by the British  Vehicle  Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA). She 
understood that Mr F was upset the business  hadnt  carried out the refurbishment work 
theyd charged him for but she explained  that the BVRLA guidance  didnt insist  they 
completed the work: businesses could choose  to sell cars at auction and use the 
refurbishment charge  to compensate them for the loss in sales value theyd experience.  
She therefore didnt  think PSA had done anything wrong when they reported the debt and 
the default to the credit  reference  agencies and she didnt think  they needed  to take any 
further action.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicator. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr F so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
Mr Fs finance  agreement explained that he would need to pay:
Ref: DRN032614428.1.4 our costs in respect of repairs which are needed to put the vehicle in good  condition 
following its return
The BVRLA set the guidelines for what that good condition should  be. Ive considered  the 
photographs of the damage, PSA were claiming  refurbishment costs for, against  the BVRLA 
fair wear and tear guidelines. In each instance  I think the damage is beyond normal  wear 
and tear.
The BVRLA guide also explains that they think it reasonable for businesses  not to choose to 
refurbish the car and to accept the risk that the car will sell for less at auction. So I dont think  
PSA were  wrong not to repair  the car.
Mr F didnt  pay all of the refurbishment  charges and PSA have a responsibility to report  a 
customers financial activity correctly. So I dont  think they were wrong to register  a default  
when the account balance  wasnt paid and they were entitled to pursue Mr F for payment 
and to transfer the debt to a specialist  collection  service.
I dont think theres evidence here that PSA have done anything wrong and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
Mr F has also complained about  the debt collection companys handling of his debt.  Thats 
not something that I can hold PSA responsible for as they are separate companies.  I can 
see that our adjudicator has suggested  he may wish to raise a separate  complaint with the 
debt collection company. If that complaint  isnt resolved to his satisfaction he may then refer 
it to this service.
Mr F has also referred us to several  passages of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). That, in tandem with the regulations  in the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974), has governed regulated credit agreements  since 1 April 2014. 
But Mr Fs credit agreement was formed with PSA before CONC governed  the agreement so 
it would  not be fair to consider it in relation to this complaint.
Hes also suggested that businesses are prohibited from issuing  a default of the amount 
outstanding if it consists solely  of fees and charges. But I dont think  this debt consisted  
solely of fees and charges. It was a debt for refurbishment costs that were due under the 
agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0326144