K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the amount of compensation Bank  of Scotland  Plc (BOS) offered 
Mrs A in respect of two mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.  The PPI was 
sold to cover two loans. 
I know that Mrs A took the loans out with Halifax. But BOS is responsible for complaints like 
this. To keep things  simple, Ill refer to BOS  for the rest of this decision. 
background
The PPI was sold alongside two loans that Mrs A took out with BOS.  
In August  2002,  she took out a loan for £5,000. At the same time, she was sold a single 
premium PPI policy for £769.09. As this was a single premium  policy,  she had to borrow 
extra on top of her loan to pay for the cover. So the total Mrs A borrowed was £5,769.09 Ill 
refer to this as loan 1. 
Two months  later in October  2002,  Mrs A applied for another loan. Ill refer to this as loan 2. 
She borrowed £10,000 and used some  of the funds to repay loan 1. At the same time, a 
refund of £659.71  was issued for the policy sold with loan 1. The refund wasnt paid directly 
to Mrs A. It was used to reduce the amount she had to pay to settle loan 1 early.     
She took out another  single premium PPI policy  with loan 2 and the premium of £1984.84 
was again added to the loan. So Mrs A borrowed £11,984.84. 
Four months later, Mrs A repaid loan 2 in February 2003 and a refund of £1701.64 for the 
PPI was issued. Again,  this wasnt paid directly to Mrs A. It was used to reduce her balance, 
which meant she paid less when she settled loan 2 early. 
Mrs A complained that the PPI had been  mis-sold. BOS agreed and they offered to pay 
compensation. They didnt offer anything for loan 1. But they offered to pay £984.77 in 
respect of loan 2. 
Our adjudicator thought the way BOS had calculated this compensation was fair. She 
thought that Mrs A had been  refunded everything extra that she paid because of the PPI. 
BOS had also agreed to pay 8% simple interest. 
At Mrs As request, the matter has now been  passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent upheld  this complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my decision below. 
As the parties agree  that the PPI was mis-sold, I dont need to look at that any further.  Im 
just looking at whether  the amount of compensation BOS offered to Mrs A was fair. Ive 
looked separately at what  happened with each loan. 
Loan 1 
Ref: DRN00705472The first thing Ive looked  at is whether  BOS  acted fairly when it didnt offer any 
compensation in respect of loan 1. Usually, we would expect BOS  to refund any extra  
payments that Mrs A paid each month because of PPI, along with 8% simple  interest.  
But Mrs As loan had a two-month deferred  period  before she was scheduled to begin 
making loan repayments.  And because Mrs A refinanced  the loan with loan 2 within  
two months, she didnt actually make  any loan repayments on loan 1. So she didnt pay 
anything extra because of the PPI.
However when Mrs A refinanced the loan,  the PPI policy was cancelled and a rebate of the 
premium was paid. But this rebate was smaller than actual premium that was added  to the 
loan. So, some of the PPI premium from loan 1 was carried  over into loan 2. 
So Mrs A paid slightly higher repayments on loan 2 because some  of the PPI premium from 
loan 1 was carried  over. BOS needed to refund  these higher repayments  to Mrs A together 
with 8% interest. And from what Ive seen it did this.
Loan 2
Loan 2 started  in October 2002  and I can see that it was repaid in February 2003. There was 
another two-month  deferral payment  period for this loan. And so I can see that Mrs A made 
only two repayments  of £249.37  before the loan was repaid.
When Mrs A repaid loan 2, the PPI policy  was cancelled and a rebate of £1701.64 was used 
to reduce the loan before  Mrs A repaid it.
But again  this rebate was smaller than the actual premium that had been  added to Mrs As 
loan. This meant Mrs A had to pay more  to repay  the loan than she should have. And Id 
expect BOS to repay the extra Mrs A had to pay to clear the loan,  and pay Mrs A 8% simple 
interest for the time shes been out of pocket.
Looking at the way BOS  calculated the compensation  I can see it did this.
In summary,  Id expect  BOS to put Mrs A in the position shed be in if shed taken out both 
loans without PPI. 
BOS has paid Mrs A the following:
£131.11 This is for the extra she paid because some  of the premium from the PPI sold 
with loan 1 was carried over to loan 2.
£82.60. This is the extra Mrs A paid within the two loan repayments she made on loan 
2 because  PPI was added to that loan.
£280.72. This is the extra Mrs A paid to settle  loan 2 because the rebate on the PPI 
premium was smaller than premium  that was added to the loan.
£490.34. This is compensatory  interest  paid at 8% simple interest (net of tax) on the 
above amounts  to compensate Mrs A for being  out of pocket. 
This is what  Id expect BOS to do and it puts Mrs A in the position shed be in if the PPI 
hadnt been sold to her.
Ref: DRN00705473my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think Bank of Scotland Plcs offer is fair. As I 
understand compensation has already been paid to Mrs A, I dont require Bank  of Scotland 
Plc to take any further action in this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0070547