K821x#15complaint
Mr E and Miss T are unhappy with their home  insurer  AXA Insurance UK Plc because a 
subsidence claim they made to it took too long to progress.
background
In October  2017 Mr E and Miss T notified AXA of crack damage theyd found at their home, 
AXA said it wouldnt investigate unless or until an expert report on the cause of the damage 
had been obtained. Mr E and Miss T paid for a report and AXA sent a loss adjuster to their 
home in November 2017.  The  loss adjuster noted  two trees  in close proximity to the house; 
one owned by Mr E and Miss T and the other in a neighbours garden.  The loss adjuster 
noted Mr E and Miss T were arranging for theirs to be removed and said, that being the 
case, repairs could  start.  
A scope  of work was completed but later it became apparent that (incorrect) assumptions 
had been made about the type of heating at the property. AXA also accepted the 
conservatory would have to be replaced, as opposed to repaired as initially intended.  The 
scope had to be reviewed.  A dispute also arose  over the tiles Mr E and Miss T had selected. 
Communication was poor. Mr E and Miss T kept chasing for updates about when work was 
to start. A further site visit occurred in September 2018 at which point further  damage  was 
discovered. Further investigations were undertaken and in October it was decided  that the 
neighbours tree was having an effect  on the property.  AXA said this had been masked 
previously because of the influence  of Mr E and Miss Ts tree. It began action to have the 
tree removed. In February 2019 the neighbour removed the tree. 
Whilst the claim had been ongoing  AXA had written two final response  letters  to Mr E and 
Miss T regarding complaints theyd made to it. And theyd brought  their concerns  to us 
(including a worry  that AXA wasnt going  to repair the foundations). In short  AXA accepted  it 
had caused delays and hadnt communicated well with Mr E and Miss T. But it felt there was 
no failure regarding  the neighbours tree  it said it was quite common  for subsidence claims 
to progress like this. It offered a total of £700  compensation for the upset it accepted it had 
caused.
Our investigator noted that AXA had reimbursed  the expert report it had required Mr E and 
Miss T to provide. But he said it should pay interest on that sum from the date the cost was 
incurred until settlement was made. He felt it had been unfair of AXA to require this in the 
first place. He said AXA should make  contact with Mr E and Miss T to discuss  the tile issue.
He noted delays and felt AXA should  have considered the neighbours tree earlier. When 
AXA said it had done but discounted  it, our investigator pointed  out there was no evidence to 
show that was the case  or justify such a conclusion.  He said a total of £1,000 compensation 
should fairly and reasonably be paid. 
AXA still didnt agree. Mr E and Miss T were  minded  to accept  the findings  but were  
concerned that the tile issue remained outstanding. As agreement  couldnt be reached the 
complaint was passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04270442AXA shouldnt have  required an expert report to be obtained at the outset. And when AXA 
did send a loss adjuster  to the property,  despite  noting two trees, only one was given any 
consideration. I dont  accept AXAs  explanation in this respect is reasonable. There were  two 
large trees in close proximity to the house  and no reasoning was given by the adjuster for 
the assumption that he made that only the one tree was causing damage. No soil samples 
were taken at that time, and in the absence of a reasoned theory as to why only one of two 
trees was causing  the problem I think more  should have been done to establish the cause of 
the problem and, therefore, what was likely  needed  to achieve stability.  
As it was, time was wasted. It took around four months for the neighbour to remove  their 
tree. So if testing had been done  following the visit of November  2017,  instead of a whole 
year later in 2018, both trees  could have been removed before the spring of 2018. That 
wouldnt have avoided  the other  disputes and delays that followed  but in my view they 
were also avoidable.    
The type of underfloor heating should have been checked when the scope was done. 
I understand that it is an unusual type but the fact the adjuster was happy  to make 
assumptions about what was in place seems careless at best. Especially when it would  not 
have taken much time or cost to learn more about  the heating  in place. 
It seems  the conservatory was quite significantly damaged. Im unclear why it was felt this 
could be repaired.  Whilst I note AXA has accepted it needs replacing  I accept that this 
caused further delay and frustration for Mr E and Miss T. 
I also note there was a distinct  and complete  lack of communication  at times from the loss 
adjuster. Ive seen  multiple emails where Mr E and Miss T have reasonably asked for 
updates only to receive silence in return. 
Overall I think  this claim was handled  very badly by AXA from the outset. Really  the claim 
should have progressed to repairs in the late spring of 2018, instead  of then still being 
outstanding as 2019 began to pass.  I understand  that Mr E and Miss T were  greatly  
frustrated by all of this; not least because they couldnt use their conservatory, an integral 
part of their home, properly given  it was so damaged. And that the damage meant their 
house was often colder too. I note AXA did do some  temporary  repairs  in January 2019.  
Having considered everything  I think AXA should pay a total of £1,000 compensation. If 
£700 has already  been  paid, it will now need  to pay the remainder. 
AXA should  also pay interest on the reimbursed  expert report cost. This will be at our 
standard rate of 8% simple per annum from the date Mr E and Miss T incurred the cost until 
AXA reimbursed it.
There is no evidence the foundations are damaged  and in need of repair as a result  of the 
subsidence. Its quite  usual in subsidence  claims for foundation work to only be carried  out 
when the cause for movement cant otherwise be mitigated.
I know AXA was going to discuss the issue of the tiles with Mr E and Miss T. As this issue 
hasnt reached a point of stalemate yet Im not going to make  any direction in respect  of it 
here. But I would remind AXA that any concern regarding like for like replacement  is only 
really an issue if its established that installing something different will cause an additional 
cost. I trust the parties will be able to reach agreement  on this, that the repairs  will progress 
Ref: DRN04270443without further  problem or delay and that Mr E and Miss T wont  need to make a further 
complaint.    
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Pay a total of £1,000  compensation,  if any part of this sum has been paid already, only 
the remainder will now have to be paid.
Pay an amount equivalent to interest*  on the reimbursed cost for the expert  report, from 
the date the cost for the report was incurred until reimbursement was made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If AXA Insurance 
UK Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from any interest due to Mr E and Miss T, 
it should  tell them how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr E and Miss T a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0427044