K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Principality  Building  Society mis-sold Mr J payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr Js comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr J has said he was misled into believing the PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage. 
He says when,  a year later, he discovered  it was not compulsory, he cancelled  it. 
It seems  likely the documents  Mr J signed  to apply for the PPI, and those confirming it was 
set up, didnt suggest PPI was compulsory; and some of them probably would have set out 
cancellation terms, which would support  the idea it wasnt  compulsory. I accept Mr Js point 
that this wouldnt  all necessarily undo  the impression he may have been given by 
Principalitys representative. But I cant fairly rely just on Mr Js recollections  of what  
happened in 1998. This was about 20 years  ago and I cant be sure that someone  can 
remember everything that happened so long ago  although I accept it is possible. 
Without knowing what the representative probably said, its hard to judge whether it was 
misleading. With such cases  it may be that the customer is remembering a discussion about  
another product  for example I can see that Mr J was charged a high lending  fee which 
looks like it might be a fee for Principality  to buy an indemnity policy; this would be to protect 
itself in case the mortgage  defaulted, and is something different from PPI, which  is to protect 
the customer and their payments. Its quite likely that fee would have been a compulsory 
term of the mortgage.  This is just an example, and may not be what  actually happened  in 
this case. But, without other stronger supporting evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude that Principality did present the PPI as compulsory.
I think it likely Principality recommended the PPI to Mr J, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr J received any employer  sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time 
when he would need to fall back on any savings or other means  he may have had for paying 
the mortgage. This all would have put Mr J in a more  secure  position,  if he eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness  or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to 
Ref: DRN07719352suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when  he took it out. So I think  the PPI would have been 
potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Principality explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about  the costs  would  have affected  whether 
Mr J took the PPI.
Its possible Principality didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr J would have  been affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0771935