K821x#15complaint
Mr A says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr A between  
December 2016  and June 2018. Mr As borrowing history based  on what  Mr Lender  provided 
is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
repayment*Deferrals
1 21/12/2016 30/06/2017 6 £250.00 £116 0
2 04/07/2017 29/12/2017 6 £360.00 £127 0
3 02/02/2018 31/05/2018 3 £250.00 £133 1
4 02/06/2018 29/08/2018 4 £320.00 £149 1
  *these  amounts  have been  rounded up/down
Mr A has said if Mr Lender  had looked at his credit history it would have shown that he was 
living off short-term loans.  He has said his mental  capacity  to make the right decision was 
questionable and he was in hospital.  Mr Lender  has said the relevant affordability  and 
employment checks were  completed. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint in part and thought loan 4 should not have been 
given. Mr Lender disagreed so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN07442252the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Our adjudicator has attempted  to contact Mr A to obtain further information about  some of 
the things he has said in his complaint. I also wanted some more information  on what Mr A 
has said about his mental capacity  at the time and when he was in hospital. However, our 
adjudicator was unable to speak to Mr A and did not have a response to his emails.  So I 
have made  my decision based  on all the information  I do have.  
Mr A hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loans  1 to 3 so I wont  be looking at 
these any further  as there is no ongoing  disagreement about  them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Mr As other lending. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Mr A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr As case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender  ought  to have realised  Mr A was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr A had taken out 4 loans within 17 months. So Mr Lender ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr A was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr As 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN07442253Mr A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender.  Loan 4 taken 
out 18 months after Mr As first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr A had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think that Mr A lost out because Mr Lender  continued to provide borrowing at loan 4 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr A borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr As ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 and Mr Lender should  put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
loan 4 being taken means any information recorded about them is adverse. So all 
entries about loan 4 should be removed from Mr As credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr As complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0744225