K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK plc irresponsibly allowed him to increase his overdraft 
limit when it should have been clear it was unaffordable.
background
Mr R says he was given  a £4,000  overdraft  by Santander in 2017 that was both irresponsible 
and unaffordable.  He says he used the overdraft for gambling and that Santander should not 
have allowed the overdraft in those circumstances  as basic  checks  would have revealed his 
addiction. Mr R would like Santander to remove  the overdraft and stop all monthly charges.
Santander says the overdraft increase applications  were made by Mr R and were approved. 
It says it considered how much money  was being paid into Mr Rs account and says it was 
unaware of Mr Rs gambling problem as he hadnt  told it about that. Santander says there 
was nothing to suggest Mr R was in financial difficulties in 2017 and that its offered to help 
him with his present difficulties.
Mr R brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. She thought  Santander 
hadnt been told about Mr Rs gambling problems and that it couldnt be expected to 
scrutinise a customers transactions or tell a customer  what it spent money on. The 
investigator thought  there were regular payments into the account and that Santander had 
offered to provide help to Mr R.
Mr R doesnt accept  that view and has asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr R will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at Mr Rs account statements at the time he made  the applications for an 
increase in his overdraft.  And Im satisfied that at that time Mr Rs account was largely in 
credit with regular payments into it. Im also satisfied that at that time there wasnt any 
adverse information  recorded on his credit file. So I dont  think  Santander acted unfairly or 
irresponsibly by approving Mr Rs applications.  I also think  that Mr R hadnt told Santander  
about his gambling problems  and it would be unreasonable for Santander to look at each 
customers individual transactions and make  any form of conclusions  about them. I also think  
Santander carried out appropriate checks at the time of the applications.
I can see that when  Mr Rs application for the last overdraft increase was approved  he then 
spent most  of the facility on gambling  transactions.  I appreciate Mr Rs frustration in those 
circumstances. But I cant fairly hold Santander responsible  for that and I dont think  it could  
have known that is what Mr R intended  to do with the overdraft facility.
I appreciate that Mr R says that some of the payments into his account  at that time were the 
proceeds of gambling.  But for the reasons Ive explained  I dont  reasonably think Santander  
could have known  that or ought to have scrutinised Mr Rs account to that level.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial  difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. I am satisfied that Santander has done so here by offering to speak to Mr R 
Ref: DRN05885862about those difficulties and by discussing any potential ways  to support him. I cant  see that 
Mr R has taken Santander up on that offer but I hope he will do so.
Overall whilst I accept  it was unusual for the overdraft increases to be allowed within  a short  
period of time Im satisfied  that on the face of it there was nothing  Santander would have  
been aware of to suggest Mr R had a gambling problem and would have used most of the 
facility for gambling. For those reasons I cant fairly  order Santander to refund the overdraft 
charges as Mr R would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0588586