K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Both Mr M and Halifax agree this policy was purchased  online.  Ive not seen any 
examples of the internet  pages  that Mr M wouldve seen  and filled in but Ive been given 
the credit  card agreement that was sent to him afterwards and this, in my view, shows 
that hed probably  chosen the PPI online.
I think Halifax made Mr M aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. I say this because the credit  card agreement includes personal details 
about Mr M. It says on the form you have  requested  repayments  cover and I think thats 
likely to have been as a result  of what he entered online. The form asks him to check 
that the details  provided are correct. Finally  it asks Mr M to tick a box and sign if he 
wished to purchase the PPI. The box has been  ticked and signed by Mr M to show  he 
wants the protection. Mr M told us he didnt realise the PPI was optional but based on 
this document  I think its more likely  than not that Mr M selected the insurance. 
And Ive noted  that this form suggests  another type of card protection  (Card Care) was 
offered to him but Mr M didnt purchase this, only the PPI. This would suggest to me that 
Mr M knew he had a choice about whether to have  all or any of the different types of 
cover. So I think Halifax  gave Mr M a choice  about buying the PPI and I think  he chose 
to take it, knowing  he could refuse it if he didnt want it.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible  the information Halifax  gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful  for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better information about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he said about his sick pay and 
savings. Mr M said he was entitled to sick pay for six to twelve  months from his employer if 
he was too ill to work. But as the policy couldve covered  10% of his outstanding monthly 
balance for up to 12 months  if he was ill or became unemployed, the policy  could have paid 
out in addition to his sick pay, and on top of any redundancy payment he got. And it wouldve 
left any savings intact for the future. So these points  dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN08206252This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0820625