K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Miss R aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding it to her card.  Miss R has told us that she didnt ask for the policy or chose to have it. 
But Barclays  has sent us a copy of Miss Rs credit card application form. The form has a 
separate section  for PPI where the policy has been  selected and signed for. Miss R has also 
signed the form in agreement with the selections made on it. So I think  Barclays  made it 
clear that Miss R didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why Miss R may not remember this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss R so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Miss R has told us she was entitled  to good sick pay and had cover  for redundancy when 
she took the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss Rs sick pay and for 
longer than she would have received full pay. The policy also covered circumstances other 
than redundancy.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Rs circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN03030272Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0303027