K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited unfairly declined to pay a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy after the theft of his car.
background
Mr A says his wife (a named driver  on the policy) parked the car facing the locked  gates on 
their driveway whilst she got out to open them. She left the keys in the car. When she turned 
round to re-enter the car, someone  was sitting in it. He drove forward  a little, startling Mrs A, 
and then reversed  the car and drove off. 
Admiral said the policy  didnt cover the theft as the keys were  left in the vehicle whilst it was 
unattended. It said anyone insured by the policy must protect their car from loss when it was 
unoccupied. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr As complaint. He thought  Admiral  should pay the 
claim. He didnt think the car was unattended or unoccupied. He said Mrs A only left it for a 
short time and remained  in close proximity to it. Admiral said the policy  terms and conditions 
about not leaving keys in cars were clear.  It said they had been brought  to Mr and Mrs As 
attention in the policys key facts document. Admiral pointed out that had the keys not been  
left in the car it wouldnt have been stolen.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about the fact that the keys were left in the car. In my opinion, its fair to 
say that it was unoccupied when the thief got into it. I think  the policy terms are clear.  Mr A 
hasnt said that Admiral didnt highlight the exclusion. So what  I have to consider is whether 
its fair and reasonable in this particular  case for Admiral to rely on the relevant policy  terms.
We take into account all the facts  in each case.  We consider where a car was parked  and 
whether the driver was in a position  to deter  the thief or make a theft unlikely. Here,  the car 
was parked in the entrance to Mrs As driveway. I think the prospect of it being taken from 
there was far less than if it had been  parked on a busy roadside. As it was daylight, I think 
its likely  Mrs A would  have  noticed if anyone was in the vicinity of the driveway at that point. 
I think many  consumers might have acted as she did in similar  circumstances. 
Although Mrs A turned her back on the car for a very short period, she remained literally in 
touching distance  of it. So I dont think its reasonable to say the car was unattended. I think  
Mrs As presence right next to it would have  acted as a deterrent to most  thieves. I think she 
might have had the chance to stop the theft had she not been so shocked   which I think  
was entirely understandable given what had just happened. 
 
As I dont think the car was unattended, even though the keys were left in it, I think it would  
be fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay the claim,  in line with all other policy terms and 
conditions. I think it should also add interest  to the sum paid.
Ref: DRN02589922my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr As claim, in line with all other policy terms and conditions
Add interest to the sum due, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement.
If Admiral thinks  its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258992