K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled their travel insurance  
claim.
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to UKI when  talking  about their agents or 
representatives.
In mid 2018  Mr and Mrs H put in a claim on their travel  insurance. Transport  delays meant 
they missed a train connection. Their two day journey took three  days because they had to 
travel via a different route.  Mr and Mrs H tried to claim  for additional accommodation,  
transport and food and drink costs.
By late 2018 their claim hadnt been settled.  So, they complained. UKI offered to pay 
compensation for poor service. UKI also reviewed and partially  settled the claim under the 
missed connections  term. This says UKI will pay up to £1,000 if Mr and Mrs H miss 
connecting transport  and an alternative  isnt offered within four hours. This is for additional 
accommodation, travel expenses,  meals and refreshments. 
UKI settled  the transport  and accommodation  costs  but not the food and drink. UKI also 
deducted a payment made by the transport operator following the delay. 
Mr and Mrs H were happy with the compensation for the poor service  but werent  happy with 
how the claim had been  settled. So, they asked us to look at this part of their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H felt their meal costs should be covered.  Mr H told us they spent a lot more  on 
food and drink because they didnt have kitchen facilities, and because  they were  travelling. 
Mr H also said the operator  payment theyd received was for taxi fares,  dinner on the first 
day and compensation. They didnt think it was fair that UKI had deducted  this entire 
payment, when not everything formed part of their claim with UKI.
UKI told us because Mr and Mrs Hs holiday was self-catered, their meal and refreshment 
costs werent additional   theyd have paid for food and drink on those days  anyway. 
UKI also said Mr and Mrs Hs pattern of spending  changed when they arrived. UKI were 
concerned Mr and Mrs H had unjustifiably spent more whilst travelling.
Our investigator upheld  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. They found the policy  term wasnt clear 
about what was meant  by additional meals and refreshments. So, they suggested  UKI pay 
Mr and Mrs H the difference  between  their extra day of expenses  and their average daily 
spend for the rest of the holiday.  UKI didnt agree so its been  passed to me to decide.
In relation to meals  and refreshments, Mr H told us:
Theyd planned to have  dinner  in their accommodation on arrival but because they 
arrived late on a Sunday,  the supermarkets had closed, and they had to eat out.
They ate at restaurants near to their hotels  because  Mrs H has walking difficulties.
They missed their hotel breakfast on day three  because their train left early.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said: 
Ref: DRN04569932Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
meals and refreshments
The policy states  that UKI will pay for additionalmeals and refreshments in these 
circumstances. But there is a disagreement  over what the term additional  means here and it 
isnt defined in the policy. 
I agree  with UKI that the meals and refreshments werent in themselves  additional.  
But Mr and Mrs Hs point is that there were additional costs  for their meals and refreshment 
because of the delay. 
So, Ive considered what a reasonable person would understand this term to mean. 
And I think a normal consumer would think additional meal  and refreshment  costs  were 
covered. I say this because its generally  accepted that eating out, particularly in captive 
environments like in airports and stations,  is more expensive. And in purchasing travel 
insurance, I think most people would  be intending  and expecting  to cover  additional  costs  
such as these in the event  of a delay. So, in reading  this term, I think  most  people would 
understand additional to apply to the cost and not just the quantity.
And where  a term is ambiguous, I would generally  favour the understanding of the person 
who didnt write the contract,  as this is an established principle when interpreting contracts. 
In these circumstances, this would lead me to prefer Mr and Mrs Hs interpretation.
For these reasons, I do think additional expenses  incurred towards meal and refreshment 
costs should be covered  by this term. So, I dont think UKI have acted reasonably  in not 
considering their claim for these costs.
Given this, Ive looked at the expenses incurred and what  should  be considered additional.
day one
According to their original  travel itinerary, Mr and Mrs H would have been travelling 
throughout the first day. And they didnt have catering facilities at the hotel theyd originally 
booked. Given  this, I think its likely they would have  incurred similar  costs  on day one 
regardless of itinerary. And, so I dont think there are any additional costs here. 
day two
On the second  day, Mr and Mrs Hs hotel provided  breakfast  for both their original and new 
itineraries, so I dont  need to consider this. And they wouldve been travelling during the day 
either way. So, I think its likely  theyd  have incurred similar costs for lunch/snacks  and 
refreshments during  the day. Given this, I dont think these expenses are additional  either.
But Ive noted  Mr and Mrs H would  have had catering facilities when  they arrived on the 
second day if they hadnt been delayed. This means  they could have bought  food and eaten  
in for dinner.  Mr H told us thats what theyd planned to do, and I have no reason  to doubt his 
account. So, I need to think about whether  theyve lost out here. 
Ref: DRN04569933To do so, Ive considered what they would  have spent.
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Hs credit  card bill which  indicates they spent £128 on the first two 
days after reaching their destination.  Mr H has also advised theyd spent an extra  £10 on 
bread. Mr H has told us that these  purchases were for six people.  And again, I have no 
reason to doubt his account  here. This averages  out at a daily spend  for both Mr and Mrs H 
of around £23 per day. And I dont think its unreasonable to presume theyd have spent 
around the same amount  had they arrived a day earlier.
Im aware UKI have raised  concerns that Mr and Mrs Hs pattern of spending  changed when 
they arrived. They felt Mr and Mrs H had unjustifiably  spent more  whilst travelling. 
But I dont think,  as UKI have suggested,  Mr and Mrs H could have used supermarkets 
whilst travelling, because  they had no facilities to prepare or cook food. And I think a change 
in spending pattern is to be expected when someone gains access to such facilities. So, I 
dont think the change in behaviour makes the comparison unfair.
And I have  carefully  reviewed the receipts  Mr and Mrs H have provided for the expenses 
they wish to claim. Having  done  so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Hs spending was unreasonable 
in the circumstances. I noted, for example, that meals  werent  accompanied by alcohol and 
their daytime expenses were moderate  they generally had sandwiches,  snacks and coffee. 
In reaching this decision, I also considered  what Mr H told us about  Mrs Hs walking 
difficulties. So, whilst  I appreciate Mr and Mrs H may have been  able to travel further to find 
cheaper restaurants for dinner,  this isnt something  I think is fair to expect of them.
For all of these reasons, I think its reasonable that Mr and Mrs Hs expenses are considered  
against an average spend of £23 a day on arrival, or around £7.67  per meal.
As explained above, the cost of dinner  is the only meal/refreshment expense  I think should  
be considered  additional  on day two. Mr and Mrs H have provided  UKI with the receipt for 
their dinner  and water  purchased  in their hotel that evening which clearly  cost more.  And for 
the reasons Ive given above,  I think they should be able to claim for the difference.
day three
By this time Mr and Mrs H would have  arrived at their destination. And based  on the 
conclusions Ive reached previously, I think on their original itinerary  theyd have spent 
around £23 on meals/refreshments that day. 
Mr and Mrs H have provided  UKI with the receipts  showing they spent more, purchasing all 
three meals out. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs H had breakfast provided at their hotel,  but Mr H told us that an early 
train meant they left too early to benefit from this. Their  train tickets support this and so Im 
satisfied this expense  was reasonable. 
Similarly, whilst Mr and Mrs H had arrived at their destination by the evening  of day three,  
theyve explained  why they couldnt eat in  the supermarkets  were  shut.  And this seems  
both plausible  and understandable in the circumstances. So, Im also satisfied this expense  
was reasonable.
Ref: DRN04569934Based on the information available to me, I think all expenses  Mr and Mrs H incurred on day 
three, over and above the £23, should be considered additional.
operator payment
UKI deducted £117.76 from the total settlement  amount.  This was the amount Mr and Mrs H 
had received from the delayed transport provider. Mr and Mrs H explained this payment was 
for their taxi expenses and dinner  on day one as well as a separate compensation payment 
for the delay. Mr and Mrs H didnt think it was fair to deduct all of this from their UKI 
settlement. 
Their policy  states  any amount  recovered  from the operator will be deducted. 
And where  an operator provides payment for an expense also paid for through  the 
insurance, I think its reasonable  UKI deduct this from the final settlement figure. But where 
the cost is unrelated or not claimed  for, I dont think its fair to deduct  this. I appreciate the 
policy term doesnt specify  that the amount recovered has to be related  to a cost claimed  for. 
But I dont think its reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to lose out on their claims for other 
expenses, simply because the operator decided to compensate  them for separate  matters.
So, of the £117.76, I think UKI acted reasonably in deducting Mr and Mrs Hs taxi expenses  
which theyd settled at a cost of £27.31.  But UKI didnt settle the cost of Mr and Mrs Hs 
dinner on day one and they arent  compensating Mr and Mrs H for the delay. So, I dont think 
its fair for them to them deduct these awards  from their settlement. 
For these reasons I dont  think  UKI acted reasonably here. 
redress
So, I think the fairest solution here is for UKI to also settle the following:
Day two additional evening meal/refreshment costs £9.93
£77.56 
- £7.67= £79.82
Day three  additional meal/refreshment  costs £9.20
£12.24
£44.06
- £23
€4.20
€3.6
€15.55= £42.50
= €23.35
Refund for operator payment previously  deducted  
(£117.76  27.31)£90.45 = £90.45
Total = £212.77 + €23.35
I have noted that the receipt  on day two for £9.93 is only partly refreshments. But the other 
part is tax for the hotel/city stay. Given UKI have settled  Mr and Mrs Hs claim for the cost of 
this accommodation,  I think  its only fair that they settle this too.
Ref: DRN04569935As an aside,  where  the evidence shows the amount  Mr and Mrs H were charged in GBP, 
I have used this figure.  I have also rounded  all figures up to the nearest pence  because I can 
see UKI did this when settling the rest of their claim.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs H accepted  my provisional findings and had no further comments.
UKI didnt  agree. They said:
Mr and Mrs H would  have always incurred costs  for food regardless of delay and 
disagreed these were  additional.
They didnt understand how the average spend of £23 had been  calculated. 
The food costs  Mr and Mrs H would have  incurred  could never  be accurately 
calculated or proven  because peoples eating habits  change and vary from day to 
day. They said food costs were too subjective,  which is why they arent covered.
Even if Mr and Mrs H should have had cooking facilities it doesnt mean that they 
were planning  on using them for every  meal.
That any costs incurred after Mr and Mrs H arrived at their destination shouldnt be 
considered under  the delay term - once the customer arrives at their destination they 
are no longer delayed.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of UKIs response. 
I have noted UKIs comments about the costs  not being additional. But this is what  they told 
us when the complaint first came  to our service.  And I think I have addressed in my 
provisional findings why I disagree with their definition of additional.
Ive also looked  again at my explanation  of how the figure of £23 a day was reached. To be 
clear, Mr and Mrs H have  told us they spent £138 for 6 people over two days. So Ive divided 
£138 by two to give the amount spent on six people for one day. This is £69. Ive then 
divided this by six to give the amount per person, per day, which  is £11.50. So, the amount 
for both Mr and Mrs H for one day is £23. Im also aware UKI have access to a copy  of 
Mr and Mrs Hs credit card bill if they wish to check these  figures  themselves. 
But I think UKIs point here is that they dont  think its fair to use this figure. Theyve raised  
concerns over the unpredictable nature of spending  on food which  means this amount  could  
never be proven.  And I agree, both that spending  can be unpredictable  and that we will 
never be certain what Mr and Mrs H would have spent had they arrived on time. But, for the 
reasons Ive already given, I do think the evidence indicates theyd have spent less. And I 
dont think its fair that they lose out on these  additional  expenses  because theyre difficult to 
calculate, which seems  to be what UKI have suggested. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs H cannot evidence the costs they would have  incurred, they have shown 
us what they spent over the next few days.  And I dont think  this is an unreasonable basis  on 
which to calculate  potential costs. This is because they were  on the same holiday and in the 
same area, with the same facilities. Ive noted  that UKI havent suggested a fairer or 
alternative way to calculate this. 
Ref: DRN04569936And whilst I agree with UKI that access to cooking  facilities doesnt guarantee their use, 
Mr and Mrs H have told us this was their intention. I have no reason to doubt  their accounts 
here. In fact, Ive noted that Mr and Mrs H have been clear throughout their claim about 
additional compensation theyve received  and what this was for. This indicates  to me that 
theyve been honest and open in their dealings  with UKI which adds weight to their account  
here.
And Ive considered UKIs  concern over the expense Mr and Mrs H claimed  for after they 
arrived at their destination. I agree with UKI that at this time Mr and Mrs H had arrived.  
But their arrival was delayed and I do think this additional expense was incurred because of 
the delay. Without  the delay, theyd have arrived at a time when the supermarkets were 
open and theyd have been able to eat more cheaply. And so I think  its fair and reasonable 
that this expense is covered under this policy term.
For all of these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings, Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I direct  U K Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H:
£212.77 plus simple  interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date they made  the 
previous settlement payment  until the date they make this payment*.
€23.35, converted at the exchange rate used for the rest of the settlement, 
plus simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year from the date they made the previous 
settlement payment  until the date they make this payment*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers it should deduct income tax from any 8% interest 
element of my award it may do so, but they should give Mr and Mrs H the necessary 
certificate.
Ref: DRN0456993