K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to cancel a standing  
order she asked it to  which  resulted  in a payment leaving her account.  She isnt able to get 
the money back and wants  Nationwide to refund it to her. 
Background
Miss O had a monthly standing order set up from her Nationwide bank account to pay £645  
for rent. 
Since September 2018, Miss O tried,  on several occasions to cancel her standing order.  As 
she had not been successful in cancelling it, the payment of £645  continued  to be sent to the 
payee. And each  month the payee  returned the payment of £645 back  to her.
On 1 November  2018, Miss Os online  banking activity  shows  that she attempted to cancel 
her standing order, but as the payment was due to leave the account  the same  day  this 
was not actioned. An error message was displayed informing Miss O that this payment could 
not be cancelled  and £645 debited  her bank account  the same  day.
A further  payment of £645 left Miss Os account on 3 December 2018, she asked  the payee, 
as she had done over the last couple  of months to return  the funds. The payee informed 
Miss O - on this occasion she was unable to do so, as her bank account had been frozen 
due to debt recovery.  
There were no further attempts to cancel the standing order or any communication  between 
Miss O and Nationwide in relation to this matter  until 10 December 2018  when the 
standing order in question  was successfully cancelled through  her online banking.  
Miss O then called Nationwide on 11 December 2018 requesting for it to raise  a dispute with 
the beneficiary bank.  She informed Nationwide that she was unable  to deal directly  with the 
payee as her account had been  frozen. Nationwide agreed to start the process to attempt to, 
recover her funds. It explained the process can take up to 20 days  - it said it is limited  in 
what it can do as the funds have left her account  and could not guarantee recovery. 
The beneficiary bank  acknowledged receipt  of the recovery request but did not respond  to 
Nationwide within the 20 days  it was required to; so on 16 January 2019 Nationwide chased 
the beneficiary bank  for an update. 
The beneficiary bank  informed Nationwide on 19 January 2019, it was unable to return  the 
funds and the reason stated was; Non-Recovery  No response/authority. No response from 
recipient. 
Miss O complained to Nationwide as she was unhappy that; 
-it failed to cancel  the standing order in November as per her instruction,
-it was unable to recover  her funds from the beneficiary bank, 
-it had given her poor customer  service  and its staff had given contradictory 
information regarding  the process. 
Nationwide in summary said; it had not made  any error in cancelling the standing order and 
has tried to help Miss O recover her funds by contacting the beneficiary  bank.  It 
Ref: DRN03206122acknowledges that it couldve  been clearer in its communication and that the service Miss O 
received was below the level expected  from Nationwide. It apologised and upheld  this 
element of the complaint,  and made  a compensation payment of £50.00.  
An investigator considered the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld.  In 
summary, he didnt think Nationwide had failed to cancel  Miss Os standing  order and thinks  
for the poor customer  service the £50 compensation award was fair and reasonable. 
Miss O has asked  for her complaint to be referred  for a decision, as she didn't see a 
standing order cancellation  error  message when she tried to cancel the standing order and if 
she had, she wouldve taken more  action. Miss O would like Nationwide  to refund her loss of 
£645. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons.
cancellation of standing order
When there are different versions  of what has happened provided by a business and a 
customer, I need to make  a decision based  on the evidence and in the absence of this, what 
I think is more likely to have happened. 
Miss O says that she had been trying to cancel her standing order  since  September  2018,  
the evidence Ive seen suggests,  that her first attempt to cancel her standing order, was 
made online on 1 November 2018. This was the same day a payment of £645 was due to 
leave the account  so her request to cancel her standing order  was unsuccessful. 
Nationwide is able to stop a payment  but only if it receives the instruction within a 
reasonable amount of time. Ive looked at the terms and conditions  relating to standing 
orders. These say that if a customer wants to cancel a standing  order  online,  this must be 
done the day before a standing order is due to be paid.  This information can also be found 
on Nationwides website.  
Nationwide have said, when Miss O attempted to cancel her standing order on 1 November 
2018, an error message was displayed saying:  
Your regular payment  details have not been cancelled.  A payment is due today to 
this payee 
Miss O has said that she didnt see the error  message.  
I dont doubt Miss Os belief in her recollection of the events but its also possible and could 
be, the unfortunate case that Miss O may have just missed seeing  the message or that she 
may have  seen the message and interpreted it differently  in that, she thought her standing 
order has been cancelled  for all future payments  but understood it to be that Nationwide  
were unable to cancel the payment  due to go out on 1 November 2018. 
It could also be the case that Miss O read and understood  the error message and had every 
intention to cancel  at a later date. I can understand why there may not have been a sense  of 
Ref: DRN03206123urgency to do this, as Miss O knew she would be able to recover the money from the payee, 
as she had done over the past few months. It was just unfortunate that on this occasion she 
was unable to do that, as the payees account was frozen due to her entering into an 
Individual Voluntary  Arrangement (IVA).
I have great  sympathy  for Miss O - but it remains that I have to decide  whether or not 
Nationwide has made any errors.
While I dont doubt it was Miss Os intention to cancel the standing order on 1 November 
2018, it was not possible  to do so, as this was the same day the payment was due to be 
made. I think  its reasonable that Nationwide, as do other banks, have a cut-off point  when it 
can no longer act upon an instruction  to cancel a payment. So I dont  think  Nationwide  acted 
unfairly in saying it wasnt able to cancel  the payment  instruction.  
Ive considered whether Nationwide made it clear that the standing order has not been 
cancelled and based on what Ive seen I think it did. 
I appreciate that Miss O will be disappointed.  But based on the available  evidence,  I dont  
think its fair to ask Nationwide to refund  the payment.
retrieving funds and customer service
Nationwide started  the process to try to recover Miss Os funds on the same day she asked 
it to. It chased the beneficiary bank when no response was received  after 20 days and from 
what I can see correctly followed its process.  
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im satisfied  that Nationwide  
has acted reasonably in taking the necessary steps to try to recover  Miss Os funds from the 
beneficiary bank. 
I agree,  when Miss O called to make enquires  about the progress  of her claim  she was 
given some contradictory information. I can see how this wouldve caused Miss O some 
worry and upset. Ive considered the impact Nationwides actions have had on Miss O and 
think its offer of £50 compensation  to say sorry for that is fair. 
I can understand that this is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss O but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached  this decision.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2019.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0320612