K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  
(Bank of Scotland)  mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy 
in 1999. The policy was set up to cover  Mr S only.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Firstly, Ive looked at whether Bank  of Scotland  made it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs S 
that the policy was optional.  Mr and Mrs S told us that the MPPI  was added without their 
consent and they didnt  know  they had it. 
However, I can see that on the mortgage application form there  was a section about the 
MPPI policy. It had the following heading;
Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance. 
It also said that Bank of Scotland  was recommending they consider the MPPI.
There was a statement  which said:
Yes I would like to take advantage of Mortgage  Repayments Insurance 
This was signed by Mr S. I think its most likely  that having read this, Mr and Mrs S would 
have understood  that it was open to them to decline the MPPI, because  they could  have 
opted to leave the box blank. Mr S also signed a separate MPPI application form. So I wont  
be upholding their complaint on this basis.
 
Next, Ive considered  whether the policy was suitable for Mr S. First of all, there  were  rules 
about who could  qualify for the policy and based on the information  thats  been  provided to 
us, it looks like Mr S met those rules.  Ive also checked the main exclusions and restrictions  
of the policy  and it doesnt look like Mr S would have been caught  out by any of them.
Mr and Mrs S told us that Mr S was entitled  to generous employer benefits. This included 
sick pay that would have paid his full salary for up to 12 months.   
I understand why Mr and Mrs S feel that this removed the need for MPPI and that 
Bank of Scotland shouldnt have recommended it to them.   But I dont think this is enough  for 
me to say the MPPI  wasnt  suitable.  This policy was designed to provide a specific safety net 
Ref: DRN02926162for their home. The consequences of not being  able to pay their mortgage could have been 
grave, and notwithstanding Mr Ss benefits I can see why they would have decided to take 
the policy. It gave  them  peace of mind  and security. It would have allowed them  to use any 
sick pay or redundancy monies for other  necessary household expenses.  
Mr and Mrs S told us that if Mr S was too ill to work  or was made unemployed they could 
have used equity  in their home. But this is precisely  the sort of difficult  financial  
accommodation that MPPI is designed  to avoid.  In addition,  they told us that their family 
would have assisted  them.  But that would have depended on the particular circumstances of 
the family  at the time, so wasnt guaranteed. So overall, having considered all these factors, 
I think that the recommendation was suitable  for them  and the MPPI would have provided 
them with a useful  benefit which was affordable for them. 
Finally, Bank of Scotland  had to give Mr and Mrs S information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so they could  make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take the 
MPPI. 
Ive considered the possibility that Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs S clear enough 
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policy.  But the 
cost was comparable  to the cost of other, similar policies available at the time. And its 
possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr S 
wouldnt have been affected by any of those things. On balance, I dont think having better 
information about these matters would  have dissuaded Mr and Mrs S from buying the MPPI. 
So having  considered all the available information, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but 
Ive concluded  that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0292616