K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) concerns its mobile  banking  app, 
which isnt compatible  with his handset. Hes also unhappy with how his complaints been 
dealt with.
background
Mr K has a business account with HSBC. He wanted to use its mobile app, in particular for 
things like paying in cheques  thus avoiding having to visit branches in person. But in 
January 2018  he realised  his mobile handset wasnt compatible with HSBCs app, so he 
couldnt use it.
He complained to HSBC.  But didnt  receive a response initially.  He took his complaint  via a 
claims management company. When he eventually did receive a response, HSBC  said that 
it was aware that its app wasnt compatible  with Mr Ks handset,  but that it would look into 
things, and hopefully  in time it would be able to make it compatible. It didnt give a timescale  
for this. 
Mr K was very unhappy.  He was inconvenienced  in not being able to use the app to do his 
banking, and didnt  think it was fair that HSBC advertised that the app would work with the 
device he had  an Android device  with an operating system above 5.0 -  when it didnt. He 
wanted HSBC  to make its app compatible  with his current device or else hed like it to make 
it possible to upload  scans  or pictures of cheques via their online banking system.
He then bought a new handset, hoping that this one would work. But although it was able to 
download the app, he wasnt able to upload and process cheques.  
He complained to HSBC  about this, and again  it said it would try to find a fix. It also paid him 
£100 compensation.
Having felt hed had no satisfactory  responses, or actions, to his complaints,  Mr K brought  
them to this service, and they were dealt with as one. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that she couldnt uphold the complaint, 
as there  was no error on HSBCs part, and she couldnt say it had treated Mr K poorly. In 
particular, she explained that our service  cant reprimand businesses. Yes, we could express 
disappointment, and ask them to make redress to customers whove suffered from their 
mistakes, or been poorly treated. But ultimately, to formally admonish a bank was a role for 
the regulator, the FCA.
She did acknowledge that in the course  of the complaints HSBC hadnt  always provided the 
high level of service  Mr K was entitled  to expect, and noted that it paid him £100 
compensation for this. Which she felt was fair and sufficient.
Mr K remained unhappy.  He didnt think it was fair that HSBC still hadnt found  a fix to the 
technological problem,  and that there was no further commitment or timescale for this. He 
still wanted HSBC  to be reprimanded for what he believed were a number of failings in his 
dealings with it. 
So he asked for an ombudsmans review. 
Ref: DRN08377092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this isnt a complaint we can 
uphold. I know Mr K will be extremely disappointed by this, and weve tried to explain to him 
a number of times what our remit and powers  are. So while Im sorry this isnt the decision 
he was hoping for, Id like to explain why I think its fair.
Im conscious that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties,  and in 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single  point made  by Mr K. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues.  Our rules allow 
me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative  to the 
courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive read 
everything carefully, and Im satisfied I dont need  to comment  on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ks unhappy that his handset doesnt  work  with HSBCs mobile banking app, when 
according to HSBC it ought to. Hes waiting for an explanation  as to why it doesnt work, and 
a fix to the problem.  He also wants  me to reprimand  HSBC  for failing to reply to him, and 
generally for its poor treatment of him in the course  of his complaints.
I accept its not yet been established why HSBCs app wont  work on Mr Ks phone. I did 
notice that the precise description  given  by HSBC of compatible  devices  is higher Android 
devices, and perhaps Mr Ks device doesnt fall into that category? In any event, its not my 
role to criticise a banks systems and technology. Only if they were discriminatory, or unfair, 
is that something wed perhaps  look to set right. I appreciate Mr K believes that there  may be 
discrimination against people  with cheaper  handsets. But this isnt a protected  group under 
the Equality Act, and I cant  take it into account. 
Its also not sufficient  for me to say that HSBCs systems werent good enough. For me to 
uphold this complaint,  Id need to be convinced either  that HSBC  made  a mistake that 
adversely impacted Mr K, or that it treated him unfairly causing him detriment. Having 
carefully considered  all the evidence in this case, Im unable to say that either  of these things 
happened.
Mr Ks understandably frustrated that his life and business are being inconvenienced by his 
inability to use HSBCs app, particularly  in respect of the uploading of cheques. And in an 
ideal world thered  be a quick  technological fix to this problem. But here were not certain  
what the problem  is, and therefore  what the fix is. And thats before considering then 
whether the fix is proportionate to the problem. Those are all matters  for HSBC, and not for 
this service. Some considerations will be security- related, and others commercial exercises. 
Our service isnt HSBCs regulator,  and as such we cant tell it how to run its business, and 
neither can we formally  reprimand it, as Mr K wishes us to. As weve  advised before, this is 
the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA).  ]
We can tell a business where we think its made  a mistake,  or treated a customer  badly, and 
then say how we think they should  make up for that. But in this case I cant  say that HSBCs 
made any errors, or that its deliberately treated Mr K poorly. I accept some  of its 
Ref: DRN08377093communications might have been better, and see that its already paid £100 to Mr K for any 
failings. 
I think this is a reasonable and proportionate  response  to Mr Ks concerns, and I wont be 
asking it to increase  this, or to take any further action to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsmen
Ref: DRN0837709