K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) told him an account he holds with the 
bank has been  closed. Mr R doesnt  believe this. He would like Santander to honour  the 
balance he believes is in the account.
background
Mr R says when he found two old passbooks he took these into a Santander branch to be 
updated. But Santander told him one account had been closed on 4 July 2007.
Mr R says he hasnt closed the account.  And the passbook hasnt been updated to show  the 
account as closed. He says the only information Santander was able to provide was a 
closing tax deduction certificate.
Santander said its records showed the account was closed on 4 July 2007. And that was 
consistent with its HMRC report data which showed  the account  on reports  up to April 2007. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt feel the passbook alone  was sufficient 
to say the account was still open.  And he found Santanders records  persuasive in particular 
HMRC tax information which showed  no payments were made after around  2007. He 
concluded therefore the account had either been closed by then or had a zero balance.
Santander accepted this view but Mr R didnt.  He said that he knew he wouldnt have closed 
the account without the passbook and he didnt feel this had been addressed in the 
investigators view. He added, even if the computers had been down on the day on the day 
of closure, he would have expected a hand  written note in his passbook if he had closed the 
account but there is nothing to indicate  that he had done so.
He said he didnt agree  that the tax records strongly  implied that the account had ben 
closed. He felt there should be other  conclusive evidence to say the account had been 
closed but none had been identified.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He said Mr R could still 
have accessed  his funds without his passbook.  And given the passage of time he said he 
didnt expect Santander to still have copies  of any paperwork issued at the time which  is why 
he felt the tax records were important  as they showed no tax payments taken from the 
account. He felt it likely the account had been  closed because  even  dormant accounts  show 
up as not closed.
Mr R said he noted what the investigator  had said but said he still felt tax records  alone were 
a weak reason to confirm  the account  had been closed. ,  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels strongly  about tis and I do understand why. So I appreciated he is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator.
Ref: DRN08773282Its unfortunate that Santanders records are limited.  But banks dont have to keep 
information forever. So I am not surprised that it has limited information for an account that 
its records show was closed in 2007.
I appreciate Mr R feels strongly that as he has a passbook with a balance in it, and no 
indication that the account is closed, that this must  mean there are still funds in the account. 
Unfortunately that isnt the case. There are a number or reasons  why accounts might  not be 
shown as closed  in a passbook  for example if the passbook has been mislaid or lost when 
a consumer wants to withdraw funds  or close an account .In this case other identification can 
be used. So I dont  believe that the passbook  in itself is sufficient evidence  to say the 
account is still live.
Santander has given  us a closing tax certificate and extracts from its HMRC records. The tax 
certificate doesnt specifically say its a closing certificate. But the dates covered on the 
certificate are from 6 April 2007 to 4 July 2007. So its not the usual end of year tax 
certificate. And as 4 July 2007 matches  the date that Santander say the account was closed 
I think its likely this is a closing of account tax certificate.
Santander has also given  us extracts of its HMRC records  from 1995  which  show annual 
entries for the account  in question. It has also given us a copy  of its microfiche records  
showing Mr Rs accounts. The shows the account in question  as being closed on 4 July 
2007.
I appreciate Mr R doesnt feel there is strong  evidence to show the account  in question was 
closed. We have gone back to Santander  to see if it has any more information but it hasnt. 
Taking into account all of the information Santander has provided  if feel its sufficient for me 
to conclude the account has been  closed.
On that basis I dont feel I can reasonably ask Santander to honour the balance showing in 
the pass book  as Mr R would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0877328