K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  (Halifax) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking a loan. Theyve said they 
bought the PPI by post - Halifax says it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs L at a branch.
Mrs L was employed at the time in a clerical role and had been there five years. Shes told 
us she was entitled to redundancy pay and I think  it likely she was also entitled  to statutory 
sick pay. Mr L was employed  by the police service.  Hes told us he was entitled to at least six 
months full sick pay. I think  it likely he also had redundancy cover. From what Mr and Mrs L 
have told us, aside  from Mr Ls work  pay and Mrs Ls work benefits,  they didnt have any 
other means  with which to pay their loan if Mrs L were unable to work.  Mrs L was, from what 
shes told us, in good health  at the time of the sale and hadnt had any health issues.
The PPI policy provided cover on Mrs L for accident, sickness  and unemployment, and life 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful claim it offered to pay the 
monthly loan payment  for up to the end of the loan term for disability  and for up to 12 months 
for unemployment. The life cover  would, subject to its terms, repay the loan on death.
The loan was repayable over 54 months. The monthly loan repayment started at £86.39 with 
the PPI costing an additional  £8.96,  making  the total monthly  payment  £95.35. The policy  
didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled without  penalty by either party, Mr and Mrs L 
needing to give written notice and Halifax needing to give 30 days written notice.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in 2005.  Mr and Mrs Ls 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  Mr and Mrs Ls 
representative says,  in summary:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs L 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs L and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; and
Ref: DRN03879992The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN03879993The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs L with reasonable  care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions.
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ls 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Ref: DRN03879994Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs L and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below.
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs Ls loan application form had 
boxes to sign to say either Yes, I would like or No, I do not wish to take  the PPI (which  
Halifax called Personal Loan Repayments Insurance). Mrs L signed in the Yes  box. And I 
think she wouldve known to sign the No box instead if she didnt wish to take the cover.
In what they first sent us, Mr and Mrs L said they had no interest  in PPI and said it was just 
included as part of the package with their loan. Theyve also said they recall being  told they 
had to take the PPI to get the (mortgage) loan  but I havent seen anything else to make  me 
think this. I take into account  all Mr and Mrs L have said and I give it some weight. I also take 
into account that the time that has passed since the sale means  it wouldnt be surprising if 
Mr and Mrs Ls recollections of it were no longer vivid. Also, I take into account that the loan 
application form from the time appears to present the PPI as something customers  had a 
choice about taking - and Ive nothing from the time to suggest Mr and Mrs L had to take it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs L knew  the PPI policy  was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure  but it wouldnt be surprising if they 
didnt recall all the details of the sale now, given the time that has passed since.
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr and Mrs L told us the loan and PPI were  sold by post without advice  and that the loan 
was for a car. The application form they signed  at the time says the loan was to consolidate 
existing lending and Halifax  says the form indicates the PPI was sold at a branch. Halifax  
says this also means advice wouldve been provided  at the sale.
Bearing in mind the above, I think it likely Halifax discussed the PPI with Mr and Mrs L  
probably at a branch - before they took it. Given also that if Halifax did give advice Halifax 
had to do more,  I think  its fair to proceed  on the basis that Halifax  gave advice.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs L. Theres no record of what  exactly Halifax discussed in 
relation to the PPI. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during  a meeting. 
Halifax had some information about  Mr and Mrs Ls financial circumstances, in relation to the 
loan application,  but theres no specific evidence to show Halifax  took steps  to establish 
whether Mrs L wouldve  been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations which  
might have meant the PPI did not fully meet Mr and Mrs Ls needs. For example, theres 
nothing to suggest Halifax considered whether Mrs L had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Ref: DRN03879995Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L given their circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for them. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. There 
was nothing about Mrs Ls employment  or occupation which wouldve made it difficult for 
Mr and Mrs L to claim. And they havent told us of Mrs L having health  issues the policy  
mightve excluded  or pre-existing  conditions that mightve affected their ability  to claim.
-Mrs L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy and the monthly cost appears to have been  
affordable for Mr and Mrs L.
-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the cover - even allowing for Mrs Ls work redundancy pay 
and entitlement  to statutory sick pay, it seems  likely shed suffer  a significant fall in 
income if she were unable to work for an extended period. The policy  benefit wouldve 
helped Mr and Mrs L manage the consequences  and at what could be a difficult  time if 
Mrs L were unemployed  or too sick to work.  Also,  given  the purpose of the loan and what 
theyve told us about not having savings to fall back on to help make loan payments, its 
possible a fall in Mrs Ls income mightve  also put strain on Mr and Mrs Ls finances.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect  their payments if Mrs L were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs L wouldve taken the policy 
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. 
Also, the box Mrs L signed on the loan application to apply for the PPI described the cover  
as insurance for the loan repayments  if she were unable to work due to involuntary 
unemployment, accident or sickness  which I think wouldve given an indication  of what the 
cover was for. Also,  the credit agreement they signed set out the actual monthly  premium.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations, the actual monthly benefit or the actual cost 
before Mr and Mrs L agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs L. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs L 
all of the information they needed about  the policy to make an informed decision about 
whether to follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ref: DRN03879996Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ls. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs L. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I have found  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs L 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs L wouldve acted differently or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event. 
Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it and believe  I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires consumers to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively they have to weigh up the 
advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given  the benefits offered in return and the 
potential consequences  they will suffer  if they do not have insurance, should the risks come 
to fruition.
Ref: DRN03879997The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking the PPI. By 
this I mean, when Halifax offered Mr and Mrs L the PPI or advised  them  there was a suitable 
product they could  buy that would protect  their loan payments if Mrs L were unable  to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment, Mr and Mrs L concluded they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. But 
information about aspects of the policy, such as the cost, the benefit and the limitations  and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.   
I consider Mr and Mrs L knew they would  have to pay something  for the policy. What  I have 
doesnt show that Halifax told them the exact  premium at the point they applied for the loan, 
but the actual  cost was set out on their loan agreement. So Mr and Mrs L were told the cost 
before they agreed to the PPI. If this had been significantly at odds with their expectations 
when they applied for the loan, they mightve  reconsidered their decision or raised  this with 
Halifax. Overall,  Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L wouldve found the cost unacceptable  if 
they had been given  the exact  figure before they applied for the loan and the policy.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs L would get for a 
successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ls expectations  about  what the policy  
would pay (an amount  sufficient to meet their loan repayment) were significantly different to 
what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
As well as excluding  any directly related claim if Mrs L were aware at the policy start of 
any health issue in the 12 months  before the start that might  cause her to claim, the 
policy also excluded claims related to any health  issue Mrs L knew  about or shouldve  
known about or for which shed been treated  or advised by a medical practitioner in the 
12 months before the policy start and which recurred within  24 months of the policy  start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs L wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Mrs L be stopped from doing her own or 
any similar job and be stopped  from doing any paid work  her experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they mightve decided  not to proceed.  The limitations  on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  mightve dissuaded  some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking the policy.
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mrs L was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs L if the insured risks had become a reality. I also havent  seen  any evidence to 
suggest Mrs L wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she was in 
Ref: DRN03879998permanent employment  and didnt have any health issues  or pre-existing medical conditions 
the policy mightve excluded. So I think she still had some good reasons  to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required for Mrs L to make a claim  for these conditions were more onerous  than 
Mr and Mrs L might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely Mrs L wouldve expected to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support it. 
And, while this limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs L from taking  the policy, Mr and Mrs L in their circumstances 
still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mr and Mrs L had known  they could only claim for disability if Mrs L were  not only unable 
to do her own or any similar  job, but also unable to do any work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into their thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  but, given their circumstances, 
on balance I think it likely  Mr and Mrs L wouldve still been interested  in taking the cover.  
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs L wouldve still taken  the policy. It was suitable for them, sufficiently close  to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  were  Mrs L made  redundant,  or unable  to work through  accident 
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs L would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as result of the sale was the same position  they would have been  in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believes the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Ref: DRN03879999Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider that, in this case,  it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they wouldve been in if they 
hadnt taken the PPI. Thats because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken  it, 
Im satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not they wouldve still taken the 
PPI if theyd been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy they were  
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances to 
conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they wouldve been in had everything  happened as it should  have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs L think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  theres a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information it gave Mr and Mrs L, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Halifax in breach of its duty of utmost good faith and the approach  a court  
might take and the remedy it might award were it to find Halifax  negligently misrepresented 
the contract  to Mr and Mrs L. But this doesnt  persuade me to alter my conclusions about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0387999