K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Home  Retail  Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos  Card  
declined a payment  that he was trying to make for a television and gave him conflicting 
information about the reasons why.
background
Mr K says he tried to make a payment for a television  on 31 July 2018 for about £450 but his 
account card was declined. He says he was told it was due to an address issue and or due 
to an attempt to use another card which had been declined.  Mr K says he has a good credit  
history and there wasnt any reason to block his card.
Argos Card says it carried out security checks on the transaction and blocked it. It cant 
provide the exact reasons  for that but says it does so to protect its customers money and 
itself. Argos Card says it carried out further  checks and approved the transaction the 
following day.
Mr K had brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think Argos  Card had acted 
unfairly. He thought it was up to Argos Card to decide on these sorts of security  issues and 
we were not the regulator and so couldnt tell Argos Card how to conduct its business.
Mr K doesnt  accept that view and says Argos Card has made him out to be a liar. He says 
he was told the issue was to do with his address details  and then told it was blocked  in error. 
Mr K says his credibility has been questioned and that Argos  Card  has perverted the course 
of justice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator.  I realise  Mr K will be disappointed by my decision and 
I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account which Im satisfied he wouldve 
agreed to when the account was opened.  And having done so Im satisfied that Argos  Card  
is entitled to refuse a transaction or block an account where  it has security concerns. I think 
such measures are in place to prevent fraud and to protect both the business and the 
customer. I appreciate  that can on occasions  cause  customers  inconvenience. So I dont  
think Argos Card  made a mistake here or acted unfairly by deciding to carry out further 
checks before approving  this transaction.
Argos Card hasnt told me the reasons  why it had those concerns or what  was said to Mr K 
at the time. But Im satisfied its up to a business to decide on these sorts of issues  when 
exercising its commercial  judgment and for it to decide if it reveals the reasons why security 
measures were applied.  I appreciate  that such information can be commercially sensitive 
and a business may not want its policies on these matters being known by fraudsters.
I accept that Mr K will be disappointed not to know the exact reasons why this transaction  
wasnt immediately approved. I also appreciate he says he was given conflicting reasons for 
that. But for the reasons  Ive explained  I dont think Argos  card was obliged to provide those 
reasons and I dont  think those security measures reflect on Mr Ks credibility or honesty.
Ref: DRN01738532I can see that the transaction did go through the next day and so I dont think there was a 
significant impact on Mr K in any event.  I appreciate  Mr K says Argos  Card has perverted the 
course of justice but thats something  a court would have to determine  and not this service.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0173853