K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold  an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) packaged bank  account to him in 2009. 
background
One of our adjudicators has looked at this complaint and didnt  think BOS had mis-sold the 
URCA. Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr Ws complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mr W. Id like to explain  the reasons for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr W was given  a clear choice in taking this account. At 
this point, I should explain that I have  to make my decision  based on what  I think  is most  
likely to have happened, having weighed up what both Mr W and BOS have been able to 
provide me with.
From what  Ive seen, Mr Ws account was opened as a fee paying URCA. But Mr W has 
explained that he did hold a free account  elsewhere prior to this, and it is common  
knowledge in the UK that free banking was available.  So I think Mr W wouldve been aware 
that free accounts existed and were  an option  for him.
I note that Mr W has said that he agreed  to this account as he was told that it was the only 
way for him to get an overdraft facility. I also can see that one of the benefits of the account 
was that the account came with an interest and fee free overdraft of up to £300.  So overall, I 
believe that it is more  likely that Mr W was told that having an URCA was the only way of 
having a fee free overdraft facility  rather than it was the only way to get an overdraft at all.
I can see that Mr W obtained an overdraft  when he took out the URCA. At this time BOS was 
charging its free current account holders a £1 a day overdraft usage  fee to use an agreed 
overdraft. URCA  account holders didnt need  to pay this fee as long as they kept to their 
individual agreed limit as well as the overall URCA limit. I think therefore that Mr W took out 
the URCA knowing he did not have to as he intended to use the overdraft and, by taking out 
the URCA he would avoid the overdraft  fees.
BOS says it didnt recommend the URCA.  And I havent seen  anything  here to suggest      
Mr Ws needs were  assessed before the URCA was sold,  which  is what shouldve happened  
if the account was recommended. So overall, I dont think that BOS  did recommend the 
URCA to Mr W. This means it didnt have  to check if the URCA was right for him. It was up 
to Mr W to do this. But BOS  did have to give him clear  enough  information  to enable him to 
do so. I think its likely Mr W was provided  with information on the main  benefits included on 
the URCA.  After all, BOS was trying  to get him to pay for it when he knew  he didnt have to. 
At the time the URCA was taken it out it came  with, amongst other  things, breakdown cover,  
travel insurance, home emergency cover, mobile phone insurance and preferential  terms on 
Ref: DRN00044642overdrafts. And while I accept that Mr W did not need most  of the benefits that the account  
came with, I think  that he could use the breakdown cover. Mr W told us that he cancelled  his 
own cover  after taking  out the URCA  and it does seem if he made claims on this benefit. 
This coupled  with the money he would save when  using the overdraft means  that I think  he 
couldve and in fact did use some of the benefits  the account came  with. 
Mr W may not have been told everything about  all of the benefits that the account  came with, 
but I cant see anything  specific  that he was not told that I think  wouldve altered his decision 
to agree to the account.
Mr W may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think he shouldnt  have  taken out the URCA. 
And given  what he mightve  read about  packaged accounts in general, I can understand why 
he believes  his URCA mightve  been mis-sold. But I think Mr W freely  chose to take the 
URCA having a decent appreciation of what it included, and I dont think  that BOS mis-sold  
the account.
I note that Mr W has said that he was not able to close his account  unless he cleared his 
overdraft facility, I should highlight that in general  an account can only be closed  if an 
account is in credit. That said, if Mr W believes that he was in financial difficulties  and that he 
was not treated fairly by BOS in relation to these difficulties he would need to direct this to 
BOS in the first instance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint about the sale of his URCA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0004464