K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc wont tell him why it declined his credit card 
application. 
background
Mr E applied for a credit card on 12 April 2019 but it was declined. Mr E appealed but 
Santander didnt  overturn its decision. Santander  wouldnt  say exactly why the application  
was declined and Mr E complained. 
Santander responded on 17 April 2019 and said Mr Es application didnt meet its internal 
score which meant it couldnt proceed. Santander said it takes  lots of factors into account 
and allocates  points based  on the information obtained during the application. Santander 
confirmed it looks at income, expenditure, employment details, information provided during 
the application as well as information  contained  on the applicants credit file. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. They didnt think  
Santander needed to provide a specific reason Mr Es application was declined and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr E asked to appeal,  so his complaints been  passed to me to make 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr E is keen to get a better understanding  of why his application didnt  
proceed. However, Santander says its lending  criteria is commercially sensitive. As a result,  
it cant say what specifically caused  the application to be declined. I think thats a reasonable 
point as I wouldnt expect  a business to give out detailed information about its lending  
criteria. 
Ive looked at what Santander  has told Mr E in order to decide  whether the information   
provided is reasonable. Santanders explained that it uses a points system when assessing  
an application. An application must  have  a certain score to be approved. Santander  says 
Mr Es application didnt reach the score needed.  
Santander has given  broad details  of the type of factors it takes into account when deciding  
an applications  score.  Its told Mr E it looks at an applicants income and outgoings,   
information about their employment as well as what theyve said in the application. 
Santander has also confirmed it uses information  from an applicants credit  file as well. 
Looking at the information its provided, I think Santander has given Mr E as much detail as 
possible concerning  how his application  was assessed. Im satisfied Santander  is entitled  to 
keep commercially  sensitive information  about  its lending criteria confidential. 
Ref: DRN07355042Whilst I appreciate the information Santander  supplied isnt specific,  it does explain that 
Mr Es application didnt meet the required score  which is why it didnt proceed. Santander 
also gave an indication  of the information  used to allocate points. Taking everything Ive 
seen into account,  Im satisfied Santander has given a reasonable explanation of why Mr Es 
application didnt  proceed and dealt  with his complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling 
Santander to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0735504