K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy after the total 
loss of her car, CIS General Insurance Limited  didnt allow  her to retain  the salvage. Miss B 
is represented by her brother, Mr M.
 
background
Miss B says that in February 2018  her car was damaged by another car whilst parked and 
unattended. An engineer  said it was an economic total loss. On 21 March  2018 one of CISs 
advisors spoke to Miss B and to Mr M. He explained that the cars pre-accident  market value 
payable to Miss B under the policy was £14,550.  The sum owed on the car under a finance 
agreement was £14,515.19.  As CIS was obliged to pay the debt to the finance company first, 
he advised that Miss B would only receive  the balance of £34.81 for the car.
The advisor told Mr M that if Miss B wanted to retain  the car, she would have  to pay CIS 
£4,766.69 for the salvage. He said he needed  to speak with Miss B directly about  the issue.  
She confirmed that she didnt want to retain  the car. Later on, Mr M insisted that Miss B had 
said wanted to keep the car, yet CIS had instructed a salvage agent to collect it. He said she 
still wanted to pay CIS for the salvage,  but CIS wouldnt agree  to it at that stage. He also 
said that he and Miss B had paid to repair the car, so they were  out of pocket.
CIS said its advisor had made it clear to Miss B and Mr M during the call that once it paid the 
finance company  and Miss B for the car, ownership  would transfer to CIS. It said the car 
should have been handed over to its salvage agent  in March 2018, but in fact Miss B had 
kept it for several months after that. CIS said it wouldnt consider a claim for money spent on 
the car during that time, as Miss B and Mr M knew the car was no longer Miss Bs property. 
One of our adjudicators considered Miss Bs complaint. She thought CIS had acted 
reasonably. She said it hadnt made  an error in retaining the car, as it had settled the claim 
in full with Miss Bs consent. She thought CIS was entitled  to tell its salvage  agent to collect  
it. Mr M said hed made other calls to CIS after the one CIS relied on. The adjudicator 
listened to those calls, but didnt change her view.  As she thought other issues  arose in the 
calls that werent part of the original complaint, she set up a new complaint  to address them.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
The recording of the call on 21 March 2018  between the advisor,  Miss B and Mr M shows  
that the advisor was told Miss B didnt want to retain the car. I think  he made it clear what 
was going to happen next. The advisor spoke  mainly to Mr M, as there were problems 
communicating with Miss B. But in my opinion there was no confusion during the call about 
CIS paying the settlement  sum in full and the car becoming CISs property. 
I think the letter the advisor sent to Miss B the same day was also clear. It said she needed 
to transfer ownership  of the car and told her how to do that. Mr M later said he wasnt happy 
about a salvage agent trying to collect the car. But Miss B (and Mr M) had agreed to CIS 
settling the claim, so I think  CIS was entitled  to have the car collected.  
Ref: DRN01941802Mr M made no reference during the call with the advisor to having the car repaired.  I 
wouldnt have expected him to do that, as Miss B had agreed that ownership of the car 
would pass to CIS. CIS couldnt  have known  that Miss B and Mr M were  going to spend 
money on a car that no longer belonged  to Miss B. 
Ive listened to the later calls between Mr M and CIS. I agree with the adjudicator that there  
isnt anything in those calls that means  the outcome of this complaint should  change.  
As I dont think Miss B has been  able to show that CIS acted unreasonably, I cant  uphold 
her complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0194180