K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about a repair to his car carried  out by an agent of U K Insurance  
Limited (UKI). Hes unhappy that hes had to pay for further  repairs to his car, because the 
initial repair wasnt completed correctly  and his car suffered further  damage.
background 
Mr C broke  the rear window on his car in March  2018. He claimed on the windscreen cover 
in his insurance policy, which is underwritten by UKI; and they arranged for an agent to 
replace the window. The technician who replaced  the window told Mr C that he hadnt  been 
able to remove all of the broken glass (some of it had fallen into the bodywork) and this 
would fall out over time.
In November 2018 Mr C had difficulties locking his car. He took the car to a local garage who 
said it was because there was broken glass in the boot locking mechanism. The glass was 
removed but the lock had to be replaced.  This cost Mr C £490.
Mr C has complained that UKI wont reimburse him with the £490 he paid. UKI, in their final 
complaint response, said their communication couldve been better, and they paid Mr C £75 
compensation for this.
Our adjudicator found UKI had acted unreasonably. She felt that the damage to the boot lock 
wasnt caused by the technician, so UKI werent  responsible for covering the cost of the 
repair. But she also felt that the technician shouldve told Mr C that the broken glass that 
couldnt be removed  may cause  problems/damage in the future. She recommended  that UKI 
pay Mr C a further £75 in recognition of him not being provided with important information, 
and for the trouble and upset this caused.
UKI didnt  agree with the adjudicator. They say they hadnt prejudiced  Mr C by not telling him 
the broken glass  may cause additional damage  to his car. Because  of this they dont feel 
they should pay Mr C an additional £75.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr Cs insurance policy, which explains how UKI will deal with windscreen 
damage. This says UKI will replace or repair broken glass in the windscreen,  sunroof or 
windows of your car, and repair  any scratching  to the bodywork caused by the broken glass.  
The broken  glass  had gotten  inside  the bodywork of Mr Cs car, and eventually moved 
around and caused damage  to the boot locking mechanism. This damage is not covered by 
the windscreen replacement cover  part of Mr Cs insurance.  Also, the damage was not 
directly caused by anything the technician did. So I dont think UKI are responsible for the 
costs of either removing  the broken glass or repairing this damage. 
UKI have  said that Mr C could make  a separate claim against his car insurance policy for the 
damage caused by the broken glass; but any claim would be subject to the policy  excess  
and may affect  his no claims  bonus. Its for Mr C to decide whether to make this claim.
Ref: DRN02081262Ive seen UKIs file notes  relating to the complaint Mr C raised.  A note on 30 November 2018  
says customer has been placed on hold multiple times taking up his time and frustrating the 
issue when if anyone  had at any point this week just told him we couldnt give him the refund 
none of these calls would  have needed to take place. Therefore we came to the agreement  
to refund £75.  Ive also seen other notes referring to Mr C being on hold for 20 minutes.
These notes show me that the £75 UKI paid Mr C was for the poor service  he received while 
making his complaint, not for what the technician did or didnt tell him and for the 
inconvenience caused as a result.
The file notes also say reiterated that sometimes glass does  stay and cause damage, and 
that Mr C was not told this by the technician. By the technician not telling Mr C that damage 
could be caused,  and instead telling  him that the glass would fall out over time, Mr C was not 
put in the fully informed  position  I wouldve expected. If hed been aware of this, he couldve 
taken his car to a garage and had the glass removed before it caused  damage to the boot 
lock. While Mr C would  still have had to pay for this himself,  its likely the cost wouldve been 
less than the £490 he paid because the boot lock wouldnt have needed to be replaced.
Because of this, I agree with the adjudicator that Mr C has been caused additional stress 
and inconvenience  (his car doors  wouldnt lock and the boot wouldnt open  as a result  of the 
damage caused by the broken glass) that couldve  been avoided by the technician properly 
advising him about the potential for the unremoved broken glass  to cause additional 
damage. I also agree that UKI should pay Mr C £75 to compensate  him for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. U K Insurance Limited  must  pay 
him an additional £75 in recognition of the impact the failure  to fully advise him caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0208126