K822xComplaint
Miss W complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS)  failed to 
collect her car on the agreed days and imposed unfair charges for damage.
Background 
Miss W had lease car supplied by MBFS and the term came to an end in October 2018. 
Collection from Miss Ws home was arranged for 1 October, but Miss W says nobody turned 
up. The agent acting for MBFS says it tried to collect the car, but there was nobody home 
and they were unable to raise Miss W. 
A second date was booked, but Miss W said she wasnt able to take another day off work  so 
she would  deliver  the car to the dealer. MBFS says this is normally arranged  through  its 
returns team  and so there was some  confusion at the dealers when Miss W turned up.
The car was inspected and damages  were identified for which  MBFS charged Miss W 
£3,863.53. It also charged  her £25 plus VAT for a missing form V5 and £186.18 plus VAT 
excess mileage charge.
MBFS rejected Miss Ws complaint and so she brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommend  it be upheld in part. She said she 
couldnt say what  had happened  on the original collection day, but she considered the key 
issue was the matter of charges.
She reviewed the report and explained  that British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines are used to assess damage. She took the view that the photos  didnt 
show any obvious damage to the left had rear quarter panel and she didnt believe this to be 
chargeable. She said the other areas  of damage went beyond  fair wear and tear and she 
considered a charge of £1,563.63 to be fair. She didnt believe there were grounds  for 
contesting the V5 and excess  mileage  charges.
Miss W said she was prepared  to pay £1563.63  as long as it didnt go higher. She said she 
felt badly treated  by MBFS  and she had been a loyal customer.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Miss Ws frustration at the problems she encountered in returning her car. 
She says she waiting in all day and no one called  and the agent  says it did call at her house  
and tried phoning her. I cannot say what happened, but as the investigator says the main  
thrust of the complaint is the level of charges imposed for damages.
 
I find myself in agreement with our investigator  on this issue. The photos  and report only 
sustain a claim for £1563.63 and in the circumstances  this is all MBFS should claim. It has 
accepted this recommendation and I gather Miss W doesnt dispute it. The BVRLA 
guidelines set out in as objective a way possible what constitutes fair wear and tear and I am 
satisfied this outcome  fits with those guidelines.  
Ref: DRN04442962The V5 wasnt  available as required though Miss W had sought  to obtain a copy.  Regrettably  
she was obliged to provide it on return and so MBFS is entitled to charge for it. Miss W had 
also exceeded the agreed mileage  and so the charge for this was correct.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial  
Services UK Limited to reduce the charge for damages to £1,563.83.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0444296