K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Europa  Group  Limited shouldnt have cancelled  his motorcycle 
insurance policy and that the charges it calculated on cancellation were excessive.
background
Mr P took the policy out in October  2017 and also paid for add-on  policies.  In April 2018 he 
changed the bike covered  on the main  policy. That meant  an increase in the premium,  plus a 
£50 mid-term amendment  charge. As Mr P was paying the premium in instalments,  he had 
an arrangement with a finance company (firm  A) through Europa. 
On 30 May 2018 firm A told Mr P his payment for May 2018  had been  missed. It said it 
would try to collect it again on 11 June 2018. But the next day Europa told Mr P his policy 
would be cancelled on 14 June  2018 due to an urgent issue  with his credit agreement. 
Firm A then extended the payment period to 20 June 2018. But Europa wrote to Mr P the 
day before  that to say the policy had been  cancelled on 18 June 2018. 
Europa said its terms of business (agreed  to by Mr P when he bought  the policy online)  
made it clear  a policy would be cancelled if a premium payment  wasnt  made on time. It said 
firm A had sent it a report of all credit  accounts  that were in arrears. It based the cancellation 
on that. It thought  the charges it made  on cancellation were fair. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ps complaint. She thought  Europa  should have 
warned him before starting the cancellation  process.  And she thought it acted to cancel the 
policy too early. Firm A was content to sort out the missing payment with Mr P and he was 
prepared to pay before the date set by firm A. The investigator said the cancellation  fee 
should be waived  and Mr P should  only be charged for time on cover on the main  policy.  
She said Mr P had faced  stress as a result of Europa appointing debt collectors,  so she 
thought it would be fair for it to pay him £200  compensation.  
Europa didnt  think the investigator  should have considered  the agreement  between Mr P 
and firm A, as Europas actions were based on its own terms of business. Europa  said it 
gave reasonable notice  to Mr P of the cancellation and followed the process correctly.  It said 
the add-on policies,  the arrangement fee, the price comparison fee and the mid-term 
amendment fee shouldnt be calculated pro-rata, as the investigator  had proposed.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows: 
First of all, I appreciate that Europa doesnt think firm A s actions  should  be considered in 
relation to this complaint, as the cancellation involves Mr P and Europa  only. But I dont think  
its possible to consider the complaint  fairly without taking them into account.
Theres no doubt that Mr P agreed to Europas  terms  of business, but I dont think some  of 
the wording used in it was clear enough.  The document says Europa reserves the right to 
cancel the policy if a premium payment isnt made by a due date. It says if details from the 
finance company  show a payment hasnt  been  made that may lead to a cancellation.  I think  
that implies that Europa wont always cancel a policy in these circumstances.
I think using discretion and taking particular  circumstances into account is a fair and 
reasonable way to act. But when we asked Europa about its process, it said a cancellation 
Ref: DRN00682832notice is issued if its notified of a payment default. So it seems one is always issued, which 
I dont think is likely  to be fair and reasonable in all circumstances. Europa said if payments 
are brought up to date within the cancellation  notice period, the process is stopped. But that 
wasnt stated in Mr Ps cancellation  notice. 
 
At the time Europa  issued  the cancellation notice  on 31 May 2018, Mr P had just been told 
by firm A that a payment  on 11 June 2018  would resolve the problem. Firm A wasnt able to 
take the payment that day, but it then said payment by 20 June 2018 would suffice. 
Europas cancellation letter said the problem was an issue  with the credit  agreement 
between Mr P and firm A. Mr P knew what that was, but hed just been told by firm A that it 
was happy to allow a late payment on the credit agreement. So I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for him to think that overrode what  seemed  to be a standard letter from 
Europa. I think many consumers would have been as confused as Mr P was and would have 
reached the same conclusion. 
In my opinion, Europa acted too early in issuing a cancellation notice, especially without any 
reference to firm A. Mr P could have made a payment to firm A at any point before the 
cancellation took effect. As a cancellation  is a very serious matter for a consumer, it doesnt 
seem fair that he was put in this position when firm A was content to accept  a late payment. 
So I dont  think Europa acted fairly  and reasonably  in the circumstances here.
Mr Ps unhappy with the sum Europa says he owes. He thinks  hes been charged for the full 
years insurance, despite not having cover  for the full year. But the charges are made  up of 
different elements, most  of which I think are reasonable. 
I think it was fair for Mr P to be charged for the time he had on cover with the insurer  
(£74.75). The five add-on policies he bought cost £106.99 for the year.  Europa says theyre  
all non-refundable,  as set out in its terms of business. We think add-on policies should 
sometimes be refunded. But in this case,  Mr P agreed to them not being  refundable, and he 
also had the benefit of them for around  eight months. That means any refund would only be 
around a third of the premium for each of the five policies. The administrative cost of sorting 
that out is likely to exceed any refund due. So I think  its fair to charge for them.  I also think 
its reasonable for Europa to say its arrangement  fee of £20 and the price  comparison 
charge of £25 should be paid. Those charges  were  set out in its terms of business. The 
costs were incurred by Europa in setting up the policy  and Mr P agreed  to them.
I think its fair for it to charge for the mid-term amendment  as well. Europa did the work for 
that and Mr P agreed to the charge.  The credit  agreement charges set out by Europa were 
made by firm A. I think Europa should waive its cancellation charge, as I dont think the 
cancellation was fair. I also think it should  send Mr P a letter  stating that the policy  was 
cancelled in error, so he can use it to try to ensure his future premiums arent affected. 
As far as I can see, without the cancellation  charge, the sum due from Mr P is still £137.09. 
Europa says a further £19.77 is owed. It says Mr P made an extra  payment of £42.49  in 
error for the premium payment due in March  2018   which  firm A refunded. It says Mr P then 
clawed back the payment  he made in April 2018, which leaves a further £19.77  due. We 
asked for an explanation of that figure, but I dont think  the one Europa  gave  us was clear.  
Without a clear explanation, I dont think Mr P should be required to pay the £19.17.
I think Mr P has faced  a fair amount  of distress and inconvenience as a result of having the 
policy cancelled, in circumstances that were very confusing to him. Europa  instructed debt 
Ref: DRN00682833collectors (in line with its terms of business). That was especially difficult for Mr P to deal 
with  and it wouldnt  have happened but for the cancellation. As I dont think the 
cancellation was reasonable, neither was what followed. Taking everything into account, 
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Europa  to pay Mr P £250 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr P accepted  them. Europa said 
its communications with Mr P were clear and it made no errors  in cancelling the policy.  It 
didnt think it should be blamed for any concerns about firm As communications with him. 
And it said the £19.77 was a charge made by firm A to it which  it passed on to Mr P.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr Ps arrangement  with firm A was 
through Europa. He was told Europa and firm A were in contact about defaults in finance  
payments. The policy  was cancelled due to a late payment - but without further  reference  to 
firm A. Meanwhile, firm A had given Mr P an extension to make the payment. I still think an 
average consumer  would have thought the cancellation wouldnt then go ahead.  In Mr Ps 
case, making the payment in line with firm As extension would have sorted  out the issue 
with the credit agreement. So I think it was reasonable for him to assume the cancellation  
wouldnt go ahead if he did that. I dont think Europa  acted reasonably in cancelling the 
policy in these circumstances.  Europa has clarified that the £19.77  charge was made  by 
firm A, so I think  it was reasonable for Europa  to pass  that on to Mr P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Europa Group Limited to do the 
following:
Waive the £50 cancellation charge
Write  to Mr P stating  that the policy was cancelled  in error and remove  any record  of the 
cancellation
Pay Mr P £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0068283