K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained Tesco Personal  Finance PLC, trading as Tesco  Bank, is holding  him 
liable for a loan he didnt  apply for in 2015.
background
In March 2016 after his mother told him about  correspondence from Tesco  arriving at her 
address in his name, Mr D realised a loan had been  taken out in his name for £4,500.  He got 
in touch with Tesco Bank, who the loan was with; to tell them  hed never taken out this loan. 
He reported this to the police and Action Fraud.  He also engaged solicitors.
Tesco Bank confirmed  they felt Mr D had taken  out this loan. Their reason for this was that 
certified ID was provided to their courier in exchange for the loan documents. They  continued 
to hold Mr D liable for the loan. Mr D brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
He confirmed to us he knew the person whod applied for this loan as theyd lived in shared 
accommodation. This third party had access  throughout this property  to Mr Ds belongings.  
It wasnt surprising he was able to make a fake loan application in Mr Ds name.
Tesco Bank told us the money had been  paid into Mr Ds account and all the ID evidence 
matched. However  there was no working email provided with the application.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. This included phone  calls between Mr D and the 
third party which confirm  the fraud. Other  parties  were also defrauded by this person. 
He noted that Tesco  had already paid Mr Ds solicitors costs. He didnt believe Mr D had 
taken out this loan and asked Tesco Bank  to stop pursuing him.
Tesco Bank didnt  accept this outcome. They asked an ombudsman  to review  this complaint.
Im now ready to complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  the same  
conclusion as our adjudicator for roughly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Firstly Ive looked at the evidence  of the original application  made  in Mr Ds name. The email 
and phone details  dont match the ones Mr D has used in his complaint to us. And Tesco  
Banks own records accept this email address never worked.
The call evidence  that Tesco Bank provided  to us around the time of the call application also 
appear to show a different voice to Mr Ds than the one used  when he complained  to them.
I can see, however,  that the bank  account details are Mr Ds. So whoever made these 
applications anticipated being able to get the money  from his account. Its certainly true we 
wouldnt ask a loan company to stop pursuing someone if theyd had the benefit of the 
money but there is no evidence this is what happened here.
Ref: DRN02058382Ive seen Mr Ds bank  statements for the relevant  period in 2015  covering the loan payment 
made to him. Within  a day of this credit there  were  three transfers out for £2,722.50, £1,400 
and £415.40.  Based on what Mr D has told us about the person who committed  this fraud, I 
dont think Mr D knew about these  transactions. As the balance of his account remained 
roughly the same, Mr D didnt notice what had happened until he was alerted a year later.  
Weve also been  in touch with Mr Ds bank. They confirmed they were  aware Mr D was a 
victim of ID fraud around this time and later.
Ive looked at the evidence Tesco Bank  relied upon  to say Mr D applied for and knew  about 
the loan. Firstly I dont  believe the call evidence is as convincing as Tesco  Bank believes. 
Like our adjudicator, I believe there are two different voices on these calls.
Ive also considered the evidence Tesco Bank  relied  upon: that of the courier. They say 
theres no benefit in the courier accepting ID which doesnt relate to the person whos taken 
in the documents. In my experience this doesnt stop this happening. I cant be sure exactly 
what happened here but I think its possible the party who took out this loan in Mr Ds name 
duped the courier.
On balance Ive come to the conclusion than Mr D didnt take out the loan with Tesco  Bank. I 
say this because:
The application was made with some details that werent his;
The voice of the person Tesco Bank  spoke to when setting up the loan is more than 
likely not Mr Ds;
Around this time Mr D and other  people he knew was a victim  of someone using their 
details in other  ways;  and
Mr Ds own evidence over the past 18 months has been  consistent and persuasive.
What Tesco  Bank seems to be doing is making a personal claim against  Mr D because  in 
their opinion Mr D got some kind of benefit  from the funds which were credited to his 
account. Im afraid I dont  agree  that is fair or reasonable. Firstly  Tesco Bank has no 
contractual relationship with Mr D as he didnt take out the loan. I believe Mr D had no 
knowledge of the loan or that any funds from Tesco Bank had been credited  to his account.  
It is plain  to me that if Tesco  Bank  wishes to get their money back, they should direct that 
claim towards the person who actually applied for the loans or who ultimately received the 
funds. That is of course a matter for them to consider.  But they do know who this person is 
as Mr Ds solicitors  confirmed this information. In any event as far as this complaint is 
concerned I am intending to uphold it because  Tesco Bank has not treated Mr D fairly.
I am in no doubt from the evidence Mr D didnt use or benefit from the money.  Therefore it 
isnt fair for Tesco Bank to ask him to repay this. I will now be instructing Tesco Bank  to put 
things right. 
Ive noted that Tesco  has already paid Mr Ds legal costs so I wont be asking them  to pay 
him anything  further in compensation.
Ref: DRN02058383my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Tesco Personal Finance PLC , 
trading as Tesco Bank, to:
Stop pursuing  Mr D for the loan he didnt  apply for; and
Remove any data about these  loans from Mr Ds credit record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205838