K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclays), following a disputed transaction.  
background
In August  2018  £291 was charged to Mr Ss Barclaycard account by a merchant (M). In early  
September Mr S disputed  this charge with Barclays as he believed the transaction was 
fraudulent. Barclays refunded the transaction. By the time Mr S brought the fraud to 
Barclayss attention  M had already refunded the money to his account so, realising this, 
Barclays re-debited the £291. Mr S complained  to Barclays who agreed to re-credit  his 
account with £291 as a gesture  of goodwill. Mr S made a further complaint because Barclays  
made a series of payments and Mr S wasnt clear if they were correct.  
Barclays explained the transactions which had caused confusion  and awarded  £100 as 
compensation. Mr S further complained that his statements were  confusing as well as his 
continuing confusion  over the £291  transaction. In its final response Barclays  provided a 
fuller explanation of the transactions in and out of Mr Ss card account. It also offered a 
further £50 in compensation. Mr S brought  his complaint to this service.  He said Barclays 
had credited some of the funds and that it had said it would make  a payment into his current  
account (not with Barclays  Bank) but he couldnt  understand why Barclays  had not credited 
his credit card account with the same  amount.  
Our investigator concluded that Mr S hadnt lost out financially due to the confusion  and 
thought the offer of compensation made  by Barclays was fair and reasonable. Mr S asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman. He said Barclays had caused  him four months of 
stress and upset because  it kept moving the money around.  He said he had to keep calling 
Barclays as it didn't respond when it said it would.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S but having  done  so I wont be asking Barclays  to do anything  further.  
Barclays has accepted  it has caused  Mr S confusion with various transaction  entries on his 
statements. So its left to me to decide if Mr S has been financially disadvantaged  by this 
confusion and whether the compensation offered is fair and reasonable. 
Ive looked at Mr Ss credit card statements covering the period in question,  provided  by both 
Mr S and Barclays along with the 8 November to 3 December  statement  from Mr Ss current 
account with a separate bank. Ive also looked  at Barclayss system  notes.  I can fully 
understand Mr Ss confusion as to what transactions had taken place and his concern that 
Barclays may not have  refunded him the funds  he expected. But Im satisfied that Mr S has 
not lost out financially. Ive summarised the transactions below in chronological order:
Fraudulent transaction  and refund:  £0
29 Aug - £291 credit card transaction to M 
4 sept - £291  refund from M to credit  card
On 8 Sept Mr S raised concern with Barclays about the fraudulent  transaction. 
Ref: DRN03159842Barclays mistaken refund and debit: £0
11 Sept - £291 credit by Barclays to Mr Ss credit card account
14 Sept - £291 debit  by Barclays from Mr Ss credit card account
Compensation payments: +£100 (£75 for this complaint)
14 Sept - £25 compensation credit  by Barclays to Mr Ss credit  card account, for 
a separate complaint
11 Oct - £75 compensation credit by Barclays to Mr Ss credit card account
Payments re-routed to bank account:  +£391
26 Oct - £291 goodwill  credit by Barclays to Mr Ss credit card account
7 November - £100 compensation  credit  by Barclays  to Mr Ss credit card 
account
7 November - £391 debit by Barclays from Mr Ss credit card account
7 November - £391 credit balance refund by Barclays into Mr Ss bank account,  
as confirmed by Barclays system  notes
Compensation payments: +£50
29 November -  £50 compensation credit by Barclays to Mr Ss bank account  
ending, as confirmed  by Mr Ss bank  statement
In summary  Mr S received £100  compensation through his credit card account, £150  
compensation and £291  goodwill  payment  direct  to his bank account. The initial confusion 
when Barclays first refunded the fraudulent transaction  seems to have been further 
complicated when  it re-routed the goodwill payment from the credit card account  to Mr Ss 
bank account.  Its not clear to me why this occurred but from the final response  letters  sent 
by Barclays it does  appear that Mr S requested these funds to go into his bank account and 
not credit  his credit card account.  
Mr S has said he wants some compensation for all the time spent calling Barclays over a 
three month period and for the stress and tension  this has caused  his whole family. He said 
he cant understand why so many people have been  involved and that it looks  like Barclays  
has lost track. He has also said he is on some medication. Im sorry to hear that this situation 
has caused Mr S some  distress  and I can see why Mr Ss statements were  confusing.  Id like 
to reassure Mr S that I dont believe he has suffered  a direct financial  loss and that both final 
response letters from Barclays  did try to explain the various  transactions.  Barclays also said 
to this service that Mr S has benefited from having a refund of £291 that was in effect  never 
debited to his account as M had already refunded his Barclays account. 
So while I do understand this has been  stressful  I also believe that the £291  goodwill 
payment and £225 in compensation is fair and reasonable  under the circumstances. The 
payment of £25 Mr S received on 14 September is related to a separate  complaint. 
Ref: DRN03159843my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0315984