K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy that her claim for damage to her flat roof was declined by 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G).
background
In March 2018 Miss Cs flat roof suffered  damage during bad weather. She contacted  L&G 
about the problem and it arranged for emergency  repairs to be done. The contractor took a 
photograph of the roof on 19 March 2018  in its damaged state.  The home emergency 
company said:
Felt has ripped  off the roof of the property. Roofer attended and found that it is a flat roofed  
property and that most of the felt had blown off the roof leaving the boards completely  
exposed with no protection against the elements.  The roofer is unable to do a temporary  
repair that will be watertight and last for 28 days and I did explain  this to [insurance provider] 
who have accepted this. He can roll the felt back and reattach to the boards but it will not be 
100% watertight but will give the exposed flat roof some protection  at least. The felt in 
question is extremely thick and heavy and is mixed with bitumen and is far too heavy  to 
move on his own.
The emergency repairs were completed three days later. L&G told Miss C that she didnt 
have a valid claim as the winds that caused  the damage hadnt  been strong enough  to be 
considered a storm. When she questioned whether the claim could be considered under the 
accidental damage  to buildings cover she had on the policy, she was also told no, it had to 
be a storm claim. 
Miss C complained. L&G apologised for the service  she had received and paid her £50 for 
the inconvenience it had caused her. It also arranged  for the claim to be assessed  by its 
specialists. 
Almost a month after the damage happened when a surveyor attended Miss Cs property. By 
this time Miss C had already had the roof repaired, as she didnt want  to risk internal 
damage. The assessment of the roof and the cause  of damage were made from a 
photograph the emergency  repairers had taken and some that Miss Cs roofers had taken 
before they replaced the roof. It concluded that the age of the roof and the weather 
conditions indicated that the damage  wasnt caused  by an insured peril.
The claim was declined  because the damage  had been caused by wear  and tear/the pre-
existing condition of the roof. 
Miss C says that she had several roofers out to inspect  and quote  for repair  work  and they 
all confirmed that it was wind damage, not wear  and tear. In addition, she explained that she 
has her roof inspected regularly and there  were  no problems with it when it was last 
inspected in April 2017. 
Miss C provided a report from a local roofing company dated 6 April 2017 which said that the 
flat roof was in good condition and no work  would need to be done for a few years.
The roofer  who repaired  Miss Cs roof said On inspection of the roof in my opinion  the roof 
damage was caused by very high winds, the felt that was ripped off was a very good  quality 
and had a very good life expectancy left.
Ref: DRN07371592One of our investigators  considered the complaint. Whilst she didnt  consider  the weather 
was sufficiently bad to be described  as a storm, she initially proposed to uphold the 
complaint  to cover  the claim under the accidental damage cover  on the policy.  L&G didnt 
accept the recommendation. It said that the comments by Miss Cs roofers about the roof 
being in good condition  and having  a good life expectancy were clearly  wrong; given  it was 
badly damaged by winds  that didnt meet the criteria for a storm. It reiterated that the 
damage was consistent with wear and tear and a maintenance  issue.
Following this, our investigator reconsidered  the evidence. She thought that the photographs 
showed evidence  of deterioration in the roof surface and this deterioration had been 
highlighted by the bad weather. As such, she thought L&Gs decision was reasonable in the 
circumstances. She also concluded that the amount L&G had given Miss C for the poor 
service it was appropriate.
Miss C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that the complaint be referred  to 
an ombudsman for consideration. She highlighted  her earlier comments  that the weather 
station was some distance from her home  and there could have been  funnelling  of the wind 
because she lives in an urban area, which  would  have increased its speed.  Whilst she 
couldnt prove that was the case,  L&G also couldnt prove it wasnt.  In addition,  she 
considered that given  the weight of the roof covering, the wind must have been of storm 
force to have lifted it.
Miss C later added that the edge  of the felt was no exposed  it was covered by a trim. 
There were storm  conditions  the weekend the damage occurred. The emergency roofer was 
nearly blown  off the roof when he attended  the property and the emergency repairs  couldnt  
be done for several days. Miss C also pointed out that the damage  had occurred less than 
two weeks after another storm.
Our investigator confirmed that the weather information she had used  was from significantly 
closer to Miss Cs home than that which she had obtained. Whilst she accepted that there 
could be funnelling  effects, which would increase the wind speed in some  places, she 
explained that we couldnt know whether  that was the case  at Miss Cs home or not.  
policy information
Storm:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 47 mph/75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 
25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth  of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours  or hail of 
such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Accidental damage:
Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical breakage  that can be seen.
What is not covered:
1.Gradual events
Any loss, damage  or liability arising  from wear and tear that you know is happening 
gradually over time.
Ref: DRN07371593my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Cs insurance policy only provides cover for damage caused by specific events called 
perils. Given the damage occurred during  a period  of bad weather,  Miss C is correct  that it 
could be considered under the storm peril.  Alternatively, there is the accidental damage  to 
buildings cover that she added to the policy. However, both of these perils exclude claims 
where the dominant cause of the damage is wear  and tear that has happened gradually over 
time. It is clear from the fact that Miss C has her roof inspected regularly that she knows  her 
roof type is subject  to gradual deterioration  and it needs maintenance and replacement 
periodically.
When a claim  is made for storm  damage, the first thing  we will consider is if the weather 
conditions were extreme enough to be considered a storm. Whilst bad weather including 
high winds  is not uncommon in this country, winds of storm force  are more unusual. In 
addition, even where storm conditions do exist, the wind speeds will vary around it  so at 
the edge of the weather  event, the winds may not be high enough  to be considered a storm.
The reason  it is important whether the winds are considered high enough  to be a storm is 
because it determines  whether the wind, on its own, is capable of causing damage to a 
structurally sound building. Lower wind speeds  can cause damage, but that will usually be 
because there is a weakness or vulnerability in the building that the high winds highlight. 
L&G thinks  the latter is the situation  in this case.
Miss C has said that she has two accounts from roofers  saying that the roof was in a good 
state of repair  before  the bad weather. I have read those accounts and I am not persuaded 
by them.  The first report is from almost  a year earlier saying that the roof is in good condition 
and no work  was needed. Firstly,  there is almost a year between this assessment and the 
event, so the roof may have deteriorated  between then and the time of the claim. In addition,  
there is evidence from the photographs  taken by the emergency roofer  and that which  
completed the repairs which indicates  that the roof was not in good condition. 
Our investigator highlighted that there  was evidence of deterioration of the roof covering 
around the edges. I would  agree that this does  appear to be the case. The fact that there 
was a trim over the corner of the roof would provide some protection  and possibly slow down 
the deterioration of the roof covering,  but it wouldnt stop it. 
The very nature of flat roofs covered in the materials Miss Cs was, is that they do 
deteriorate and need replacing periodically. In addition to the deterioration at the edges of 
the roofing felt, there  are other signs of problems  with the roof. There  are clear  areas  of 
pooled water on the part of the roof where the covering was not torn up  this indicates a 
problem with the boarding  beneath  the covering as flat roofs shouldnt hold water on their 
surfaces. In addition, I note there is cracking  visible  on the remaining roof covering. There  is 
also water  staining  and warping in places on the exposed boards that were underneath the 
torn up covering. Whilst there would be water  damage to these boards because  they had 
been exposed  for a short time, staining of that nature  would be all over the roof evenly  rather  
than much worse in some places. This would  indicate  that there had been water ingress into 
the roof structure over time.
Ref: DRN07371594Given the evidence,  I am satisfied that Miss Cs roof had deteriorated  before  the damage  
occurred. Given that is the case,  I dont consider that a claim could be made under the 
accidental damage  cover as the general  exclusion above would defeat such a claim.
I have, therefore, considered whether  the dominant cause of the damage could have been a 
storm. I have looked  at the weather  report Miss C obtained which shows  highs of 41 mph 
and that which this service has obtained from a closer weather station showing a slightly  
lower wind speed  of 39 mph. Neither  of these maximum  speeds  would be considered a 
storm. They would, however, likely be capable of causing damage where there was a pre-
existing weakness  in a building.
Miss C has said that it is possible that the wind speed at her home  was high enough  to be 
considered a storm. That is possible that the wind speed was higher at her home either  
because it simply was or because of the effect buildings  can cause in the urban 
environment. However, I have no evidence that is the case. Indeed, I note that the wind 
speed was lower on the closer weather station that that further away. I can only determine  a 
case on the evidence  that is available and I am satisfied that, on balance, there werent  
storm conditions where Miss C lives at the time the damage was caused. 
As such,  I am satisfied that it is more likely that the bad weather at the time of the claim 
simply highlighted a pre-existing  wear  and tear issues with Miss Cs roof.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 
7 April 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0737159