K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that after he entered into a hire purchase agreement  for a new car with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS), it changed its policy  on accepting 
replacement vehicles funded by insurance  companies on to the agreement. The result was 
that when his car was stolen he was left significantly  out of pocket.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 May 2019, a copy  of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. VWFS  also said it would  accept my provisional 
decision. It said it had stopped accepting  like for like replacements  as a temporary measure 
while it reviewed its policy, and hadnt intended to cause any customer  detriment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While VWFS says it didnt  intend  to cause  any customer detriment, I think  it did cause Mr B 
detriment as I set out in my provisional decision, and it didnt do anything  to help him when 
he pointed this out. So I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited:
1.subject to Mr B paying VWFS  £330,  to settle  Mr Bs hire purchase agreement and 
cancel £7,146.52 of Mr Bs outstanding  settlement  debt.  VWFS should also ensure 
that any adverse  information in respect  of this debt is removed from Mr Bs credit file;
2.to reimburse Mr B £1,800 in total towards  the hire charges he has incurred;  and
3.to pay Mr B compensation  of £500  for the distress  and inconvenience  it has caused 
him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06152592COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 23 MAY 2019
complaint
Mr B complains that after he entered  into a hire purchase agreement for a new car with Volkswagen 
Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS), it changed its policy on accepting replacement vehicles  
funded by insurance companies  on to the agreement. The result was that when  his car was stolen he 
was left significantly out of pocket.
background
Mr B acquired  a new car in September 2017. He paid an advance payment of £576.20 and the 
balance of £42,553.80, plus finance charges, was provided through  a hire purchase agreement  by 
VWFS, a company connected to the manufacturer of the car and the dealer who supplied it. The total 
amount payable  under the hire purchase agreement at the outset was £47,607.33.
New cars tend to lose value  more  quickly  in the first year or two of their lives than later on. Because  of 
this, when  a new car is bought under a hire purchase agreement, there is a risk that if it is stolen or 
written off during the early  part of the agreement the market  value paid by the cars insurer will be 
significantly less that the balance still owed under the hire purchase agreement.
This gap in value is a well recognised risk, and consumers can buy a separate  gap insurance 
policy to cover it so they know  they will have enough insurance to cover what they owe under a 
finance agreement if the car is stolen or written off. 
Many insurers  also include  a provision  in their motor insurance policies which  addresses the 
particularly steep  fall in value of cars during the first 12 months. This says that if a car is stolen  or 
written off during the first 12 months,  the insurer will provide a like for like replacement  new car rather  
than just paying the much lower market  value  of the stolen or written off car.
This is straightforward if the consumer owns the car outright. However if the car is being  financed, and 
is still legally owned, by a finance company, it will have  an interest in the process. In particular  it will 
wish to ensure  that the value of the replacement  car isnt likely to be less than the value of the original 
car during  the remaining life of the finance agreement. Recognising this, the insurer will normally 
provide that the consent of any finance company with an interest in the car must  be obtained.
Mr B was aware of both gap insurance and new car replacement provisions in motor  policies. When  
he acquired  the car, he took out gap insurance for the period beginning one year after he acquired 
the car. He also made sure his motor insurance policy contained a provision as described  above so 
that it would supply a new replacement car if his car was stolen or written off during the first year. With 
this in place, he didnt think he needed  gap insurance to cover the first year.
In July 2018,  Mr Bs car was stolen. He contacted his insurance company who initially said it would  
arrange a new replacement in accordance with the terms of the policy. A suitable replacement was 
found through  the dealer  who supplied the original car.
However when the insurer approached VWFS for its consent, VWFS refused to agree. It said it had 
changed policy in April 2018, when it had circulated insurers, including  Mr Bs insurance company, to 
tell them it would no longer consent to the supply  of any replacement vehicles for its finance 
agreements.
Mr B complained both to his insurance company and to VWFS. He said this was a significant  change 
in VWFSs  previous  practice on which  he was relying. Either or both of them should have  told him 
Ref: DRN06152593about this change, when  he could  have  arranged gap insurance to cover the remainder of the first 
year.
The insurance  company didnt accept his complaint. It didnt think it had any obligation  to pass  on the 
notification it received from VWFS in April 2018. The actions of the insurance company are the 
subject of a separate  complaint to us. So I wont say any more about  this in this decision.
The insurance  company paid VWFS £29,500 (less  Mr Bs policy  excess of £330)  in respect of the 
market value  of the car when stolen. This left a balance of £7,476.52 still owed by    Mr B to VWFS to 
settle his hire purchase agreement, which VWFS has declined to write off. It says it wasnt legally 
required to accept any new replacement car offered  by an insurer. So when it changed its procedure  
by deciding it would in future never accept a replacement car, it wasnt required to notify its 
customers.
Mr B complained to us. He said that ideally he wanted to be supplied with a replacement car in 
accordance with the policy  terms.  But if that was no longer possible  because  a suitable  replacement 
car was no longer available, he wanted the balance of his outstanding finance debt to VWFS  to be 
settled. Because he had been unable to replace his car with the previous finance balance still 
outstanding, he had incurred  car hire charges  when he needed a car which he thought  VWFS  should 
reimburse.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said VWFS had told Mr 
Bs insurance company  that it would  no longer accept new replacement cars under its finance 
agreements. He thought this was an insurance issue and not something VWFS was obliged to do 
anything about under  its hire purchase  agreement. Mr B didnt accept this recommendation and asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Its not uncommon for car insurance  polices to provide for a new replacement car to be supplied  if the 
original new car is stolen  or written off during  the first twelve  months of its life. Its usual for the policy  
to say that if the car is still legally owned by a finance company,  and hasnt passed to the consumer, 
the finance companys consent will be required.
In considering whether  to consent, the finance company will want  to be satisfied that its security  
interests will be protected, and in particular  that the replacement car will be at least  as valuable as the 
original during the life of the finance agreement. My understanding is that subject  to that, finance 
companies wont normally  withhold their consent. However a replacement may not proceed for other 
reasons, for example  delay in a suitable replacement  car becoming available.
I think  these arrangements are widely known among  consumers and are commented on by motoring  
journalists. Mr B certainly was aware  of this type of provision, and made sure it was included when he 
took out his insurance policy. He took the view that with this provision  in his policy, separate  gap 
insurance for the first year was superfluous. Given his state of knowledge at the time, I dont think  this 
was an unreasonable view to take.
Mr B says he also discussed what he was proposing to do with the dealers  sales representative, who 
was acting  as VWFSs representative in arranging  the finance, at the time he acquired the car. The 
representative didnt demur, or make any comment on how VWFS would  approach this.
Its well known that a large proportion of new cars bought by consumers are now acquired using 
personal contract purchase/hire purchase arrangements. In view of this, and the general awareness 
of first year replacement car provisions in motor insurance policies, I dont think  VWFS did enough  to 
publicise its change  of policy regarding  such provisions.
Ref: DRN06152594The email it sent to insurance companies treated this simply as a procedural change. It suggested it 
should be disseminated within the insurer itself. It didnt suggest the insurer should  spread  the 
message more widely, for example to its customers.
VWFS doesnt seem to have told its own dealer representatives of the change, or asked them to 
inform recent customers  who might  be affected. Certainly Mr Bs dealer  didnt seem to know about the 
change when  he approached it after his car was stolen.
I think  VWFS was best placed to make sure its customers were aware of the change. It could have 
sent a letter to current  customers to alert them that they should  no longer rely on VWFS agreeing  to a 
replacement car being provided by their insurer for their finance  agreement. But it seems to have 
taken no steps to warn its own customers of the change.
VWFS says it never  had any legal  obligation  to agree to accept a replacement car from an insurer. So 
it didnt have  to tell its customers that it was changing its practice.  This may be true as a matter of 
strict legality. But as well as complying with legal obligations, we expect  businesses to treat their 
customers fairly and reasonably. In this we follow what the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) expects 
businesses it regulates, such as VWFS, to do.
I note that one of the six core outcomes that FCA has said it expects as part of its Treating 
Customers fairly initiative is Outcome 3  that consumers are provided  with clear information and 
kept appropriately informed  before during  and after the point of sale.
The practice  of finance companies  such as VWFS participating in the provision  of replacement cars 
into their finance agreements, albeit  subject  to their consenting in each case, was longstanding, well 
known, and relied on by many customers, including  Mr B. The withdrawal by VWFS from the practice  
without doing enough to draw this to his attention has caused Mr B significant  financial  loss. I think  its 
right that VWFS should compensate him for this loss.
Its now too late for a new replacement car to be provided to Mr B, and accepted on to the hire 
purchase agreement by VWFS. Instead  I think its fair and reasonable that VWFS settle the 
agreement and cancel the outstanding settlement debt on his hire purchase agreement so that Mr B 
is in a position  to start again and look for a new replacement car. 
However, Mr B would always have  had to stand the excess under his insurance policy of £330 in 
respect of the claim he made. He hasnt paid this at present because  his insurance  company 
effectively increased  his hire purchase debt by this amount. So I think  the amount of settlement debt 
VWFS should  cancel is £7,476.52 less £330, that is £7,146.52.
Mr B says VWFS should also reimburse  him the hire charges he has had to pay to hire a replacement 
car on the occasions he needed one from when  his car was stolen  until now.  He has supplied 
invoices for this hire for this period of nine months from the middle of August 2018 until the end of 
February 2019. During this time he hired a car for 40 days altogether at a cost of £100 plus VAT each 
day. So he has spent  a total of £4,800.
I note that under his hire purchase agreement Mr B was paying monthly payments of £675.31 for the 
use of his car, which he hasnt  had to pay during this nine months.  The hire charges he has paid 
average out at £533.33 a month for this period.
I accept that Mr B hasnt had the unrestricted availability he would have had with his own car, and he 
has had the inconvenience  of arranging the hire, and collecting and returning the car on each 
occasion. 
However I dont think it would be reasonable  for me to require VWFS to reimburse the full amount of 
the hire charges; this might  be said to leave  Mr B better off than if he had been supplied with a 
Ref: DRN06152595replacement car. I think reasonable compensation would be for VWFS  to reimburse  £200 a month in 
respect of the hire charges, that is £1,800 in total.
Finally, I think  Mr B has suffered distress and inconvenience because  VWFS  unreasonably failed to 
tell him it had terminated  procedures on which he was relying. As compensation  for this, I think VWFS 
should pay Mr B a further £500.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr B or from VWFS by 23 June 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to order 
Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited:
4.subject  to Mr B paying  VWFS  £330,  to settle Mr Bs hire purchase agreement  and cancel 
£7,146.52 of Mr Bs outstanding settlement debt. VWFS  should also ensure  that any adverse 
information in respect of this debt is removed from Mr Bs credit file;
5.to reimburse  Mr B £1,800 in total towards the hire charges he has incurred; and
6.to pay Mr B compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused him.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0615259