K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that the TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt send her any statements in respect of 
her credit card account from November 2018  and onwards.  She also complains  that her 
address was changed without her permission.
background 
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Miss S and TSB and so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.  
In February 2019  Miss S contacted TSB to tell them that she hadnt had any statements 
since November 2018. She found  out that her statements  had been  sent,  in error, to her old 
address, which  she hadnt  lived at since 2007. 
In May 2019  she visited a TSB branch and requested the outstanding statements and left a 
letter instructing TSB to close  her account.  She also called TSB the same  day to confirm  her 
wish to close the account and to request the statements. She received a letter the following 
day confirming the address  change and a single statement dated 22 May 2019 together with 
a default notice requiring payment of £270.73 and late payment charges and interest.
TSB acknowledged and accepted the validity  of the complaint  which they put down to IT 
problems. They explained that if there had been an adverse  impact  on Miss Ss credit  file 
she should let them know and they would look into it, as they would if she had incurred any 
late payment charges  or interest. They offered her £50 for any distress and inconvenience  
and £50 to cover her expenses.
Miss S was unhappy  with TSBs response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  and agreed that there  had been failings in the level of service provided  by 
TSB, and also found that the level of recompense offered was too low. He thought  that a fair 
and reasonable offer of compensation would  be an additional £150  on top of that already 
offered. He also thought that TSB should amend  Miss Ss credit file. As Miss S didnt agree 
with that overall  suggestion, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. What I need to decide is whether  TSB acted 
fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Miss S. My aim is to ensure that a fair and 
reasonable outcome has been achieved,  which  means  taking into account both TSBs view 
and that of Miss S. I do not perform the role of the industry regulator,  and nor do I have the 
power to make rules  for financial businesses, punish  them,  or direct  that they change  their 
processes. That falls under the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority. Equally we are not 
a court  service. 
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me, and looking at that evidence,  I think  
we have a very unfortunate situation here. Miss S has clearly  had poor service.  TSB have 
rightly acknowledged  their IT error which has been  the root cause  of Miss Ss complaints 
Ref: DRN09934622and they have apologised and offered compensation. I think  that would have  been  sufficient 
had they at the same time addressed  Miss Ss complaint in full, but they didnt. 
Unfortunately despite asking  for statements on many occasions these were not provided 
until this service became  involved. And when  she did get the one statement in May 2019 she 
also received a default notice too. I think that given the acknowledged and accepted error 
TSB acted unfairly in sending her that, and they could and should have done more  to resolve 
the complaint  at that time.
So I find that I agree with our investigator that the amount of compensation TSB offered was 
insufficient in all the circumstances of this case. It follows as to what  the correct  level of 
compensation ought to be.
The issue  for me is what the right level of compensation ought to be. There is no set figure  
or table  of awards  to turn to, and given  that each case  is different, and very few 
circumstances are ever the same, it is often  more a matter of art than science in arriving  at a 
figure for compensation.  I look at all the circumstances of the case and decide what  feels  fair 
and reasonable when  set against the effect upon the complainant  of any particular service  
failure. I also take into account  awards  made in other cases  of a similar nature.
So, I have thought about the suggested award  our investigator made and I do think it is 
reasonable. It is in line with the awards  this service would make  for distress and 
inconvenience in circumstances  like this, and I think it is fair and enough  to put matters  right.  
I know Miss S will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.
my final decision
TSB have  already  offered  to pay Miss S £100  and our investigator suggested they pay her 
an additional  £150, making  a total compensation payment  of £250. I agree that is fair and 
reasonable. 
So my decision is that TSB Bank Plc should  pay £250. In addition should Miss S have 
suffered any adverse impact on her credit  file as a result of TSBs error, then TSB should  
amend her credit file accordingly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0993462