K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains about advice given  by HDIFA (then  an appointed representative of 
Berkshire Financial Advisers Ltd) to transfer the value of her deferred benefits  in a former  
employers pension scheme to a self invested  personal pension (SIPP) to invest  in an 
unregulated investment  carbon credits.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice
HDIFA gave.
background
Ive considered Ms Rs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 15 March 2021. 
Ive set out the findings I reached  below. But Ill first recap the facts  and how our 
investigation has progressed. 
Ms R had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary pension scheme. She was
referred to a firm Ill call Firm A (an appointed  representative of a regulated  firm).  Firm A
didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on final salary pension  transfers.  So Ms R
was referred to HDIFA.
On 1 March 2012,  following advice from HDIFA, Ms R transferred the value of her deferred
benefits in her former employers scheme (£250,787.49)  to a SIPP. On 7 March  2012,
£234,994.50 was invested in carbon  credits. And, on 12 March 2012,  £78,005  was paid into
Ms Rs personal bank account.
Ms R, through her representative,  complained to HDIFA  in August 2016. The complaint was
referred to us in September  2016.  Meyado argued the complaint had been made too late.
We disagreed. Meyado  didnt accept that. The complaint was referred to me to decide if it
had been made within  the time limits,  set out in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on 6 March 2019.  For the reasons I explained I said the
complaint hadnt  been made  too late. In brief, the complaint had been  made  to HDIFA in
August 2016.  There was no dispute that HDIFA had received the complaint  letter  and had
notified Meyado.  Both HDIFA and Meyado had written to Ms Rs representative in response.
The complaint was about advice given by HDIFA in 2012 and so had been made within the
primary six year period. And the six month period (which says we cant  consider a complaint
thats referred to us more than six months after the business  final response has been
issued) hadnt been breached either. Neither  HDIFA nor Meyado had issued  any valid final
response. So the six month time limit had never started to run.
One of our investigators  looked into the merits of the complaint. He upheld it. He referred to
the regulators January  2013 alert. He said HDIFA was required to consider the suitability of
the proposed  underlying investment. And he wasnt  convinced that Ms Rs attitude to risk
was medium/high.  He thought a medium risk approach at most  should have been adopted.
The investigator said that the regulators stance,  about transferring out of an occupational
pension scheme, is that an adviser should  start by assuming that a transfer wont be
suitable. HDIFA couldnt ignore the fact that the proposed investment was carbon credits.
That was an unregulated investment and not suitable  for Ms R and certainly not for virtually
all of her pension fund.  It was unlikely the year on year growth required to match the benefits
Ref: DRN02392482Ms R would be giving up would be achieved. Those benefits, which Ms R couldve accessed
at age 60, represented 18 years  service. She shouldve been advised  to retain them.
The investigator noted that Ms R had received an incentive payment of £78,005 which  shed
used towards a property  purchase.  Shed been  referred to Firm A by her mortgage adviser.
But it seemed  she already  had a deposit  (£20,000) and she didnt  buy a property until some
months later. The payment wasnt needed at the time.  She wouldnt have gone ahead  with
the transfer and investment just to get it. But the payment should  be deducted from any
compensation due. The adjudicator set out how Meyado should redress  Ms R.
Meyado didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. Amongst other  things it said wed 
failed to give proper  regard to many of the matters  it had raised.  In particular wed dismissed 
the information Ms R had herself provided,  which shed signed and which she knew  would 
be relied on and hadnt corrected, despite being  asked to say if she didnt agree with 
anything that had been recorded. HDIFAs understanding was that Ms R was taking 
independent advice about the investments  the suitability  letter  records shed be discussing 
the appropriate investment with Firm A. It was also unclear when  any loss actually arose 
which raised causation  issues. 
We hadnt discharged  our statutory responsibility  to reach a conclusion which is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. We hadnt  conducted a proper  investigation into Firm 
As involvement or obtained  full disclosure  of documents  from Firm A, to whom  the complaint  
should be redirected. 
Meyado maintained that Ms R had already decided, before HDIFAs involvement, to invest  in 
carbon credits and shed  received a substantial incentive payment. Shed have implemented  
her chosen  investment strategy regardless of any advice to the contrary. HDIFA was just 
arranging the transfer. It wasnt  fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA 100% liable for the fact 
that, on advice  from another party, the transferred sum was invested  in carbon credits.
We made some further enquiries of Ms R, including about the incentive payment. We shared 
what Ms R told us with Meyado. Ms R had explained shed met with her mortgage adviser 
whod asked her about  her previous  employment. He said her accrued pension  benefits just 
sit there and, if the business failed, the benefits  could be lost overnight. Ms R was told 
shed be better off investing  elsewhere. Carbon credits or land in Dubai was mentioned. And, 
if she moved her pension, a lump  sum could  be paid which she could invest  and so shed
have more in retirement.  
Ms R also said that some  of the information  recorded about her circumstances wasnt 
correct. She didnt have  savings for a deposit  on a property although her partner could have 
sold some  shares if needed.  The incentive was paid in March 2012 but it wasnt  until about 
six months later that Ms R found a property to purchase. A large portion of the incentive 
payment was used  as a deposit.  That meant the mortgage was lower and interest charges 
were reduced. But Ms R and her partner  werent dependent  on the funds to complete the 
purchase  the price  of the property  was only just over two times their joint salaries.
The investigator maintained the complaint should  be upheld. He said carbon credits  were a 
relatively recent, niche,  non mainstream investment. For someone who was prepared to take 
higher investment risk, and depending  on their overall circumstances, it might be reasonable 
to have a small amount  of carbon credits included within  an appropriately diversified 
investment. But investing  the majority  of a pension fund in carbon credits  would  be highly 
Ref: DRN02392483speculative and a far greater risk than a medium/high risk investor should take. HDIFA 
needed to take into account  the suitability of the proposed investment.
Had HDIFA obtained sufficient information  about  Ms Rs circumstances,  experience and 
investment knowledge,  HDIFA wouldve advised her not to transfer.  HDIFA shouldve  
explained, in very clear  terms,  that she couldnt afford to lose the pension  benefits shed built 
up. And set out the highly speculative nature of the proposed  investment and that it wasnt  
suitable for her circumstances.
Wed expect most consumers to follow professional  advice. Ms R had received  a
substantial incentive  payment. But she couldnt afford to lose her accrued pension
benefits. And her property  purchase  later in the year wasnt reliant  on the payment. If
HDIFA had given appropriately stark  warnings  about why she shouldnt transfer her
benefits, she wouldnt have insisted on going  against that advice.
Meyado didnt accept  that. It referred  to what it had said earlier. Including that Ms R now 
disputed information  which  shed provided;  that shed have gone ahead  anyway  because  of 
the incentive payment; and, given the involvement of others (Ms Rs mortgage adviser  and 
Firm A), it was incorrect to target  Meyado with full responsibility for Ms Rs losses.
Meyado has more recently  made  some  further  representations about the High Courts
judgment handed down on 18 May 2020  in the case of Adams  v Options SIPP  UK LLP
(formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP) [2020]  EWHC 1229 (Ch). The claimant had argued that
the underlying  investment had been  manifestly  unsuitable and the SIPP  provider had a duty
to advise on the underlying investment. The claim was dismissed. The court held that the
SIPP provider didnt  owe a duty to advise  on the underlying investments and there was no
obligation to refuse the claimants  instructions to transfer.  Meyado  argued the judgment was
material to Ms Rs complaint. Meyado said it would be making further  submissions.
In the provisional  decision  I issued on 15 March  2021 I said I agreed  with the investigators 
findings as to why the complaint should  be upheld. Ive recapped  my (provisional) findings 
here:
I note all thats been said about HDIFAs understanding  recorded in the PRQ [Pension 
Review Questionnaire] and the suitability report  that Firm A would be advising Ms R about 
the investment.  But HDIFA  couldnt  fulfil its regulatory duties to Ms R without considering the 
overall transaction. To determine if the transfer to a SIPP  was suitable, HDIFA had to 
understand what the SIPP was going  to be invested  in. HDIFA knew  from the outset that 
Ms R intended to invest in carbon credits.
The regulators 18 January 2013  alert (and the further alerts issued on 28 April 2014  and 2
August 2016) makes it clear that HDIFA couldnt just advise on the SIPP itself. The alerts
post dated the advice  but didnt  follow new rules  or guidance and just restated the existing
position. The underlying investment was part and parcel of the advice to transfer. HDIFA
needed to consider its suitability too. Thats the case even if the introduction had come from
another regulated firm and HDIFA had made it clear that it wasnt  giving advice on the
underlying investment. I dont agree that HDIFAs recommendation was limited to moving
Ms Rs final salary benefits into a SIPP and that the decision  or advice to invest  in carbon
credits was separate and thats what has caused the loss. The carbon credits investment
had to be considered along with the SIPP wrapper.
HDIFA wasnt just arranging the transfer. HDIFA advised Ms R to transfer. We arent putting
Ref: DRN02392484HDIFA in the same  position  as a trustee of an occupational pension  scheme.  Except to the
extent that a trustee must  act in members best interests and COBS  19.1.6G says (and did
at the time) that a firm, having started by assuming that a transfer wont be suitable, should
only then consider a transfer to be suitable  if it can clearly  demonstrate,  on contemporary
evidence, that a transfer is in the clients best interests. I dont think the transfer was.
Meyado has stressed  that HDIFAs assessment of Ms Rs attitude  to risk was based on what
Ms R herself said in the PRQ (and summarised in the suitability letter). Ms R signed both
documents and didnt  correct what was recorded  about her attitude to risk and other
matters. I understand  Meyados argument  that it is entitled to rely on information which Ms R
herself provided. But an adviser  shouldnt simply accept what a consumer says about the
level of risk they think they may be prepared to take and proceed accordingly. Its for the
adviser to test that and check a consumers understanding  of risk. And, importantly, that the
consumers circumstances are such that they are able to bear any losses that might result.
Ms R may have described  the benefits in her former employers scheme as insignificant. But
HDIFA didnt query  that or look into what other  assets she might be able to rely on in
retirement. Had HDIFA done so, it would  have been apparent  that the benefits Ms R would
be giving  up were, and would remain, a significant portion of her pension provision.
Ms R may have said she was comfortable  taking a significant degree of risk. But, based on
what HDIFA knew or should have ascertained, Ms R didnt have the capacity for loss that
might result from the transfer and the investment.  HDIFA should have advised her against
exposing her pension  fund to that degree  of risk.
What Ms R had said about her experience  and understanding should also have been
explored. For example,  and as the investigator  pointed out, her benefits in her former
employers scheme werent  directly  dependent, as shed apparently been told and accepted,
on investment performance.
Further, even if Ms Rs attitude to risk was medium/high, I dont think  investing all of her
pension fund in carbon  credits was consistent  with that. The risks associated  with the
investment were considerable. It was specialist and unregulated. The regulator  has said that
type of investment is usually high risk and unlikely to be suitable  for the vast majority of
consumers. And then usually only for a proportion of an investors  funds. Here  virtually all of
Ms Rs accrued pension,  representing some 18 years service  and in money terms almost
£235,000, was invested in a single, high risk, unregulated fund with no track record. I dont
think that was suitable  for a medium/high risk investor.
I note whats been said about the funding position of Ms Rs former employers scheme. But
I dont think the transfer was driven by those  concerns. And the Pension Protection Fund
would have offered  some  security.  Here the driver for transferring to the SIPP was the
unsuitable carbon credits  investment.
Meyado hasnt really  argued that its advice  was suitable. Its position is that, due to the
involvement of others, it isnt fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Ms Rs
losses in full.
Ive considered that carefully. DISP 3.6.1R  requires me to determine a complaint by
reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ive also considered DISP  3.5.2R  (which says I may inform the complainant  that it might be
appropriate to complain against  some  other  respondent); DISP 3.5.3R (which  deals with
Ref: DRN02392485where we have two or more complaints from one complainant  relating  to connected
circumstances); and DISP 3.6.3G (which  says, if we have complaints against more  than one
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, I may determine  that the respondents
must contribute towards the overall award  in the proportion that I consider appropriate).  I
agree that the involvement of other  parties  is a relevant factor.
 
But Ms Rs complaint has been made  against HDIFA. She hasnt complained  to us about
any other party. That doesnt mean  I havent  considered the involvement of others. Or that
we wont consider whether any other  party might  have some responsibility.  But a conclusion
that, despite the involvement of other (regulated) entities, the complaint should be upheld
against the party complained about,  and that party should meet  the consumers losses  in full,
wont necessarily be unfair or unreasonable.
Meyado has also argued that Ms Rs losses stem from the failure of the investment and,
given that the funds  transferred were  initially held in cash, no loss had resulted by the time
HDIFAs role ceased. But HDIFA knew, from the outset, that the proposed  investment was in
carbon credits and that was the driver  for the transfer. It isnt the case that HDIFA is being
held responsible for investment decisions made (whether Ms Rs own decisions or those
made with advice from others) after HDIFAs involvement ceased  and when it had no control
over the investments. The money  was only available  to invest  because HDIFA had
recommended the transfer and facilitated it. If the transfer hadnt happened and the SIPP
hadnt been set up, Ms R wouldnt have been  able to make the carbon credits investment.
On that basis HDIFAs role was instrumental.
Ms R may have signed to confirm she understood that HDIFA wasnt advising on the
investment. But that doesnt absolve HDIFA from its regulatory duty to consider the
investment too. And I dont see Meyado can successfully argue that Ms Rs losses could
have been reduced or avoided if her investments had been  reviewed. My understanding is
that the carbon credits investment has been  illiquid  throughout.  So, once Ms R had invested,
she couldnt later have redeemed her investment  and reinvested in something  more suitable.
It seems  it was Ms Rs mortgage adviser  who gave her the idea that leaving her pension
where it was wasnt a good idea and that she might  lose out. And he also told her she might
be able to release  some  money from her pension fund.  The mortgage adviser is named on
HDIFAs referral  process record. My understanding is that he worked for a regulated firm  I
think the business mentioned is a trading name  of a regulated firm. Its possible the
mortgage adviser gave  investment advice. Even if the firm he worked for was only
authorised in respect of mortgage  related business,  we might still be able to consider a
complaint against  it about any investment advice given by its adviser.
But Ms R hasnt made any complaint about her mortgage adviser. It seems he pointed her in
Firm As direction. Again, its possible that Firm A gave advice about the carbon credits
investment. But, again, Ms R hasnt said that or made any complaint against  Firm A. In any
event, Firm A then referred Ms R to HDIFA. Theres  no dispute  that HDIFA gave advice. It
thought it could limit its advice to the transfer and the SIPP.  But that was wrong. HDIFA
needed to consider the proposed investment too.
Even Firm A (or indeed  anyone else) had advised  Ms R, and in the strongest  possible  terms,
to invest in carbon  credits,  Ms R had deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefit
scheme. Firm A wasnt competent  to advise on transferring those benefits. Firm A didnt
have the necessary regulatory permissions. Firm A had to refer the matter to HDIFA.
Ref: DRN02392486Ive focused on HDIFAs own responsibilities  as the only business involved with the capacity
to unlock the funds held in Ms Rs defined benefits  scheme. HDIFA had the requisite
permissions, expertise and responsibility to advise Ms R properly on the overall transaction.
Its role was pivotal, since the eventual  investment  was wholly  contingent on the transfer
taking place. HDIFAs advice that Ms R transfer to a transfer to a SIPP so she could  invest in 
a high risk, unregulated, illiquid investment was unsuitable. But for the transfer Ms R couldnt
have invested  as she did.
My starting point as to causation is that HDIFA advised  Ms R to transfer.  So it is primarily
responsible for the losses shes suffered in transferring to the SIPP and investing in carbon
credits. That isnt wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case  and HDIFAs
central part in the matter.  HDIFA  could have prevented the investment. Instead it facilitated
it, having given  unsuitable advice that Ms R transfer.
If Meyado considers  that others have some responsibility in the matter,  its presumably  open
to Meyado to pursue those other parties. I dont think  Ms R would object, if Meyado met her
losses in full, to assigning her rights  to Meyado.
If HDIFA had given  Ms R suitable advice  HDIFA would  have advised her against transferring
and investing  in carbon credits. I still need  to consider what  she would have done if shed
been given that advice   that is would she have  accepted it or would she have gone  ahead
anyway.
We know that Ms R received a very substantial incentive payment in return for investing in
carbon credits.  The sheer size might  at first sight suggest a conclusion that Ms R would have
proceeded with the transfer and the carbon credits investment in any event, just to secure
that money.  I certainly dont underplay the significance of the payment. It is one of the
largest Ive seen, although  thats  reflective of the transfer value and the amount Ms R
invested.
Ms R has been very clear that she wouldnt have risked her entire pension fund (over
£250,000) just to get the payment.  She was contemplating buying  a property at the time.
And she did go on to buy a property later that year and she used a large part of the payment
(£56,000) towards the deposit. Although it was recorded that she had £20,000 at the time of
the advice, Ms R says that was wrong  and she had no savings. I acknowledge that she
could (and should) have corrected HDIFAs understanding at the time.
But Ms R says she and her partner could  have raised the deposit by other means  they
could have sold shares held by Ms Rs partner. And taking  out a higher mortgage was
affordable for them  their mortgage  was £119,000  against a joint income of £75,000.
The payment was no doubt hugely attractive  and very useful. But I accept that Ms Rs
property purchase wasnt  dependent on getting that money.
Like the investigator Id generally expect a consumer to follow  professional advice.
Regardless of what Ms R may have been  told by others about the investment and its
potential, she had to get regulated  advice from a firm that had the necessary permissions to
advise on defined benefit transfers. HDIFA were  the experts and, as Ive said, had the
requisite skill, experience  and regulatory permissions to advise on such transfers. I dont see
why Ms R wouldnt  have  placed  significant  weight on what  HDIFA said.
If HDIFA had given  suitable advice HDIFA would have advised Ms R against transferring
Ref: DRN02392487from her former employers scheme. HDIFA would also have  made it clear why it was unable
to advise her to transfer. HDIFA  should have considered  the investment and spelled out the
risks. That would have  countered  any overly positive views  expressed by any other  party. If
HDIFA had done  that and told Ms R it didnt recommend the transfer  because it was too
risky and she might lose her entire pension  I cant see that Ms R would have simply
ignored such advice.  Or that shed already made  a firm or irrevocable decision to transfer
which couldnt have  been influenced by HDIFA. In my view,  HDIFAs expert  advice would
have carried significant  weight and called into question what  Ms R may have been told by
others. I think  shed have paid attention if HDIFA had told her how much risk shed be taking
and that it couldnt recommend she transfer to invest as she planned.
And, had she wanted to proceed anyway, HDIFA wouldve needed to treat her as an
insistent client. HDIFA may not have  been  willing to act on that basis. Even if it was,
following the correct  process would have  involved discussing with Ms R why she wanted to
proceed despite advice against  and recording her reasons. I think  that wouldve
concentrated her mind  on whether  it was really advisable to transfer  and give up the security
of a defined benefits arrangement in favour of benefits that were  dependent  on investment
returns from a single,  high risk, unregulated and speculative fund.
Ms R has been clear that she wouldnt have been  prepared to jeopardise her entire fund just
for the incentive  payment.  On balance, Im prepared  to accept  that. Had HDIFA given her
suitable advice,  I dont think Ms R wouldve transferred  or invested in carbon credits.
More recently Meyado  has referred  to the case of Adams v Options SIPP  UK LLP. Meyado
said it wanted to make further comments about the case and weve allowed ample  time to do
so. But we have  to be fair to both parties. I dont think its unfair  or unreasonable  to proceed
in the absence of any further detailed submissions about the case and when I dont see that
its relevant.
First it relates  to a SIPP providers obligations,  whereas  Ms Rs complaint is made against
her independent financial adviser. Secondly,  the issue  in the court  case was the extent, if
any, of the SIPP providers  obligations in an execution only transaction.  Here  HDIFA was
providing regulated  advice. Further,  the court case involved a personal  pension. In the
present case,  HDIFAs advice was in respect of the transfer of the value of Ms Rs benefits
in her former employers  defined benefits  scheme. I dont see theres  anything  in the Adams
v Carey judgement which is obviously relevant to the present case.
I went on to set out how Meyado should  compensate Ms R. Ms R accepted  my provisional 
findings. Meyado  didnt.  In summary Meyado said:
Ms Rs decision  to open a SIPP and transfer the value of her deferred  pension
benefits was made  with assistance and/or advice from a number of entities,  not just
HDIFA. Id continued  to ignore the other entities involvement, even though it was
factually undeniable that Firm A (a regulated  entity) was materially involved.
That wasnt fair or reasonable but irrational. Our unwillingness  to look into the
relationship between Ms R and Firm A - which was materially  involved in advising
Ms R to invest  in the illiquid investments at the heart  of her complaint and (once the
SIPP was open) was to advise on her planned  investments,  meant my decision was
being made in the light of a deliberate choice to exclude relevant  matters. The
requirement, under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), to take
into account all the circumstances,  means  the actions of other entities with whom
Ms R interacted as part of her decision making  cant be excluded.
Ref: DRN02392488Our approach suggests, where  multiple  entities (regulated or otherwise and here
Firm A was regulated) are involved, well disregard all but the one at which the 
complaint is explicitly  directed and hold that firm accountable for all failings,
irrespective of where liability should properly  lie. Entities are at the mercy of who a
complainant happens to name on the complaint  form and when many complainants
wont have a true understanding of the roles and responsibilities of those with whom
theyve dealt. Thats contrary to our obligations  under  FSMA and demonstrably unjust
to one or more parties.
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Our reluctance to examine Firm As
involvement has meant key documents and evidence  have  been  unavailable to
Meyado and us. Our enquiries have been at best incomplete and Meyados ability to
defend itself has been seriously impaired.
It had also led to a fundamental  error  as to causation. My (provisional) decision was 
based on the premise that, without  HDIFAs involvement, the investments - and so 
Ms Rs losses  - wouldnt have occurred. That oversimplifies the true position  and fails 
properly to take into account both Ms Rs decision to invest  and that it is the 
investments, and not the SIPP, which are the primary cause  of her losses.  The 
decision also disregards how Ms R held herself  out to HDIFA.
Meyado highlighted sections of my provisional  decision.
Ms R had already  decided to transfer  her existing  pension before HDIFA was
involved. Her determination  to transfer  cant have been influenced by HDIFA. And,
following the transfer. Firm A was to advise on the investment. My decision was
irrational and relied on speculation.
The correct factual  position was that an entity  other than HDIFA was the advising
entity. Our unwillingness to investigate other entities involvement properly or at all
evidences irrationality and unfairness. We hadnt properly considered  whats  fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Id conceded  that Ms R had received a very substantial  incentive payment of 
£78,005. She was in desperate need of those funds. It was unfounded  speculation to 
dismiss the incentive payment to conclude that Ms R wouldnt have proceeded in any 
event. Its irrational,  when  the weight of evidence overwhelmingly points  to the 
conclusion Ms R wouldve  proceeded with her chosen investment come  what  may.
It must  be accepted,  as a matter of fact, that an entity other than HDIFA actually
advised on the material investment and that HDIFA had no involvement in the
decision to invest in carbon credits. Its difficult,  if not impossible, to say HDIFA had
knowledge of, and should take the blame  for, an investment decision made after
HDIFAs involvement had ceased  and when  HDIFA didnt and couldnt have had any
influence or control  over the ultimate investments.
It was conjecture to say, if HDIFA had advised against transferring, Ms R wouldve 
thought again. And at odds with the evidence as to Ms Rs determination not to heed  
warnings and ignores  the fact that she ultimately invested in a product in which 
HDIFA had no involvement.  And Id disregarded  Ms Rs assessment of her own
investment experience and attitude to risk.
Id referred to the regulators alert dated 18 January  2013.  But Id conceded  that dealt
with where an adviser took on a client from an unregulated introducer and where the
adviser was the first and only interface with the client.  HDIFAs situation was
different. I hadnt attempted  to deal with that key distinction.
In conclusion Meyado  said my decision was unfair, unjust and irrational. Nothing
should detract from its sympathy  for Ms R. Shed suffered loss as a result of
investing (on the advice  of others) in investments which had failed. But my decision
Ref: DRN02392489failed properly to appreciate causation  and reliance issues.  Based  on the information
wed considered  - or chosen not to consider - the decision was unfair  and unjust in
apportioning the entire responsibility for Ms Rs losses on Meyado and didnt meet
our obligations  under FSMA. 
Meyado didnt accept  the (non binding)  recommendation  Id made.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out
above. Ive paid attention  to the relevant  DISP  rules. Ive also carefully considered  Meyados
comments in response  to my provisional  decision.
Generally what Meyado  has said isnt new. Meyados main point remains the involvement of
others and, in particular.  Firm A. I dont agree we havent made sufficient enquiries about
that. Or that Ive misunderstood  or ignored the part played by Firm A (or indeed  Ms Rs 
mortgage adviser) such that my decision cant properly be said to have taken  into account all 
the circumstances of the case as required by FSMA.
Meyado says our reluctance to examine Firm As involvement means that key documents
and evidence hasnt  been made available. But Ms R hasnt said Firm A gave advice. She
hasnt produced any report or other  documents from Firm A indicating  that investment advice
was given. From what shes said it seems her mortgage adviser  instigated  things before 
referring her to Firm A who wasnt able to assist.  Ms R was then referred  to HDIFA. Theres  
no dispute that HDIFA did advise Ms R. And Ms R has complained  that HDIFAs advice to 
transfer wasnt suitable. As things stand she hasnt made any complaint about Firm A or her 
mortgage adviser. Ive focused on what HDIFA did or didnt do. 
The central point  is that Ms R had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary
pension scheme. Firm A couldnt advise about that and referred  her to HDIFA. Theres  no
dispute that HDIFA did advise Ms R to transfer  to a SIPP. HDIFA set up the SIPP and
arranged the transfer. Its possible that Firm A gave  advice about carbon credits. And Ms Rs 
mortgage adviser may have given advice too. But theres no dispute  that HDIFA did give 
advice. HDIFA thought it could limit its advice to the transfer and the SIPP.  But, as Ive 
explained, its understanding  was wrong:  HDIFA needed consider the proposed
investment too.
Even if Firm A or Ms Rs mortgage adviser  had advised Ms R to invest in carbon  credits my 
decision would have  been the same  in so far as any complaint against HDIFA is concerned: 
Ms R had deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefit  scheme.  Her mortgage 
adviser had referred  Ms R to Firm A. But it wasnt competent to advise on transferring those 
benefits. Firm A didnt  have the necessary regulatory permissions. Firm A had to refer the 
matter to HDIFA.
Ive focused on HDIFAs own responsibilities  as the only business involved with the capacity
to unlock the funds held in Ms Rs defined benefits  scheme. HDIFAs role was pivotal, since 
the eventual investment was wholly contingent on the transfer taking place. HDIFAs advice 
that Ms R should transfer to a SIPP so she could invest in a high risk, unregulated, illiquid 
investment was unsuitable. But for the transfer  Ms R couldnt  have  invested  as she did.
Ref: DRN023924810I dont agree that well always  disregard the involvement of any other entities and hold the
business at which the complaint is explicitly directly responsible  for all failings, irrespective of
where responsibility might properly  lie. It will all depend on the facts of the particular case. I 
agree that a complainant wont  always understand the different roles and responsibilities  
where more than one party is involved.  But it was HDIFA  who gave the advice to transfer. Its 
role was central. I dont  think concentrating on whether  the advice HDIFA gave was suitable  
is unfair or unjust. Rather, and as Ive said, it reflects HDIFAs central and pivotal role in the 
matter. As Ive made  clear, and regardless of anyone  elses  part in the matter, HDIFA should 
have taken into account the proposed underlying investment when  advising  on the transfer.  
I also dont agree that Ms R, before HDIFAs involvement, had made a firm or irrevocable
decision to transfer  which couldnt have been influenced by HDIFA. Or that it wouldnt have
made any difference if HDIFA  had advised Ms R against transferring. I set out in my
provisional decision why I thought shed  have placed weight on what  HDIFA had said.  And 
why it wouldnt have  been that easy for her to have just disregarded any advice from HDIFA 
not to go ahead and proceeded anyway. 
Ive recognised the significance of the incentive  payment. And Ive carefully  considered its 
impact on Ms R and her decision making.  As Ive said, Ms R has been very clear  that she 
wouldnt have been prepared to jeopardise her entire and substantial pension fund just to 
secure the incentive payment. It was very large. But thats reflective of the size of Ms Rs 
pension fund. She risked  losing her entire  fund of over £250,000 in return for a payment of 
£78,005. I dont  think, properly advised,  that was a risk shed have been prepared to take.   
I dont agree that Ms R was in desperate  need of the incentive payment.  Shes  explained 
she did use a large part of it, some months  later, as a deposit for a property purchase. But 
shes also made it clear she could have funded the deposit by other means and that she and 
her partner could have taken out a larger mortgage too. 
Meyado may argue that it was the investment  and not the transfer  that caused Ms Rs 
losses. But HDIFAs advice meant Ms R was able to access  her pension fund to make the 
unsuitable carbon credits  investment. She didnt have any other funds she couldve invested.  
And, if HDIFA  had said she shouldnt do it, Ms R wouldve  needed to have  overcome other 
hurdles to go ahead. As things stood, HDIFAs unsuitable advice made it easy for her to 
proceed and didnt give her any real reason  to question  whether what  she was planning was 
really advisable. I dont  think thats an oversimplification. I think  it reflects HDIFAs central 
and pivotal role.
Meyado says HDIFA cant be blamed for any investment decisions made after its 
involvement ceased and when HDIFA didnt  have any influence or control over the ultimate
investments. But its clear that HDIFA knew from the outset that the reason for the transfer
was to invest in carbon  credits  the PRQ  records that as the reason for the transfer.   
I note what Meyado says about Ms Rs attitude to risk. And that HDIFA was acting on 
information Ms R herself had provided. But Ms R was dependent on professional  advice. As 
I explained in my provisional decision,  it was up to HDIFA to test what a consumer had said, 
including about  how existing pension provision might be viewed. I dont see that a fund 
valued at over £250,000 might properly (except in very exceptional  circumstances) be 
viewed as insignificant.  It represented some eighteen years service so was always  going to 
form an important part of Ms Rs pension provision. HDIFA  should have identified that she 
didnt have the capacity for loss that might result from investing  the bulk of that part of her 
pension provision in a single high risk, unregulated  fund. 
Ref: DRN023924811Meyado says the regulators alert dated 18 January 2013 deals with where an adviser takes 
on a client from an unregulated introducer,  which wasnt  the situation here and where the 
referral came from Firm A, another  regulated  business. It seems, from the PRQ, that HDIFA 
was aware that Ms R had originally been  referred  by her mortgage adviser. I discussed in 
my provisional decision his possible status.  But, regardless of the source of the introduction,  
it wasnt open to HDIFA just to advise on the transfer - it had to consider the proposed  
underlying investment too.
The regulator issued  a further alert on 28 April 2014.  Again it didnt follow  the introduction  of
new regulations  but restated the existing position. It included the following:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will transfer or
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the
overall transaction, that is the vehicle and the wrapper and the expected  underlying
investments and whether or not such investments were regulated  products.  It said,  despite
the initial alert (in January 2013), some firms continued to adopt a model  which purportedly
restricted advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a
pension transfer  or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing
pension arrangement and the underlying  investments  intended to be held in the SIPP.
HDIFA had to consider  the proposed underlying  investment.  HDIFA knew  that was carbon 
credits. It was unsuitable for Ms R. On that basis the advice to transfer was unsuitable too.
All in all my views remain as previously indicated. I uphold the complaint. Meyado must
redress Ms R as set out in my provisional decision.  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
has now published the inflation assumptions I referred to in my provisional  decision.  
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Ms R, as far as possible, in the position  shed be in now
if HDIFA had given  her suitable  advice. I think  shed  have  retained her deferred benefits  in
her former employers scheme.
Im not sure what the current position is with Ms Rs SIPP and if she still has it. I know  that in
some cases  the SIPP provider has taken the view that the carbon credits investment should
be regarded as having no current value. And, if the SIPP  doesnt  hold any other investments,
it can be regarded as terminated. If the SIPP is or can be closed  Ms R wont incur further
SIPP fees and so no award for those needs to be made.
But if the SIPP cant be closed, Meyado  should purchase the carbon credits investment  by
making a payment into the SIPP to reflect the purchase price, acceptable to the SIPP
provider, to buy it. That should give Ms R the option to close  the SIPP  and transfer any
remaining balance to a suitable pension arrangement  and so avoid incurring future  SIPP
Ref: DRN023924812fees.
If Meyado cant or isnt willing  to purchase  the investment Meyado will need to cover Ms Rs
future SIPP fees by making a lump sum payment to her equivalent  to five years  worth of
SIPP fees at current rates.  Ive said five years as thats a reasonable period to allow to sort
out whats going to happen  with the investment and the SIPP.
If Meyado doesnt purchase the investment then it should  give it a nil value  for the purposes  
of calculating compensation. If Meyado  considers that Ms R may receive  some  value from 
the investment  in the future, Meyado may require, if Ms R is redressed in full, that she 
provides an undertaking to pay Meyado any amount she may receive from the investment in 
the future.  That undertaking must  allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Meyado will need to meet  any costs in drawing up 
the undertaking. And, if Meyado requires an assignment of rights  from Ms R, it will need  to 
meet the costs  involved in drawing up the agreement. Any undertaking and/or assignment  
should be drafted  in a clear and simple  format.
Ive also said the payment  of £78,005  that Ms R received can be taken into account.  Shes  
had the use and benefit of that money so I think it would be right to allow it to be deducted 
from the redress.
what must  Meyado  do?
Meyado must undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review
guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how 
to calculate redress  for unsuitable DB pension  transfers.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Ms Rs acceptance  of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Rs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Ms Rs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into a pension plan for Ms R. The payment  should allow for the effect  of charges and any
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Ms R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax
rate in retirement  - presumed  to be 20%.  So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Ms R within 90 days  of the date
Ref: DRN023924813Meyado receives  notification of her acceptance  of my final decision.  Further  interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes
Meyado to pay Ms R.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERFS  adjustment may mean  that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado can make an allowance  for the lump sum
incentive payment  Ms R received.  It should  do this by applying a withdrawal  of £78,005 from
the calculation  on the date Ms Rs carbon credits investment was made (7 March 2012).
Its possible that Ms R could face an unauthorised  payment charge. But whether that will be
the case and, if so, what amount Ms R may have to pay is uncertain. If required,  Meyado
should give Ms R an undertaking to meet any unauthorised payment charge that she may in
the future  have to pay.
Meyado should  also pay Ms R £250  for the worry and upset this matter has caused  her.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000 (where,  as
here, the complaint was referred  to us before 1 April 2019 but after 1 January 2012), plus
any interest and/or costs/  interest on costs  that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair
compensation may be more than £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the
balance.
Determination and money award: I require  Meyado to pay Ms R the compensation amount
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000 I additionally require Meyado to
pay to Ms R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds£150,000,1  only require Meyado to pay
Ms R any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000,1  also recommend that
Meyado pays Ms R the balance. I additionally recommend  any interest calculated as set out
above on this balance to be paid to Ms R.
If Ms R accepts  my decision, the money award is binding on Meyado. My recommendation is
not binding on Meyado.  Further,  its unlikely  that Ms R can accept my decision and go to
court to ask for the balance. Ms R may want to consider getting independent  legal advice
before deciding whether to accept my decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Ltd must redress  Ms R
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2021.
Ref: DRN023924814Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0239248