K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Erudio Student  Loans Limited  caused a delay to his deferment 
application. 
background
Mr A has several student loans and Erudio has taken over part of his debt. He had 
previously obtained  a deferment  of payment and this expired on 9 April 2018. Mr A 
submitted a request for a further deferment of payment  on 12 June  2018  and Erudio  wrote  to 
him a week  later to say that it still needed  evidence of his self employment income. Erudio 
explained that the Student Loan Company (SLC) which granted deferments accepted either 
a signed paper copy of his tax return or the online version, but for the latter it asked for 
evidence that it had been submitted and the date of submission.
Mr A spoke with Erudio and was told what  was needed and also that a deferment could only 
be rolled back for three  months  from acceptance. On 5 July Mr A submitted an unsigned  tax 
return, but this was insufficient evidence. On 11 July the SLC confirmed that Mr A had told it 
he had the submission receipt  for his tax return and it suggested that Erudio  obtain  this. 
Further exchanges took place and the deferment was accepted on 1 August 2018. This was 
rolled back three months which meant  that Mr A owed one months payment.
Mr As complaint was rejected by Erudio and he brought  it to this service  where  it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. He noted Mr A 
was warned of the three month time limit on 22 June and he was told what was needed. He 
didnt think that was unreasonable.
He thought that Erudio  had made reasonable requests for information  which  it needed to 
verify his annual income and it had given him a reasonable timeframe in which  to provide  it. 
He concluded  Erudio had made no significant  errors.
Mr A didnt agree and said that his previous applications had gone through  without difficulty.  
He also said that HMRC had told him that any tax return  with dates clearly shown is a final 
return. He said his online return didnt require a digital  signature. He also said that there 
didnt appear to be any procedure to allow him to deal directly  with the SLC.  He explained  
the whole  process  had been stressful and ultimately  the deferment  had been granted  with 
information he had previously provided 
He asked that the SLC take responsibility for deferments, his arrears to be removed and that 
the SLC address how it deals with applications.  The investigator explained that this service  
doesnt deal with regulation of financial bodies and this was matter  for the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Mr A pointed out that Erudio hadnt  made  him aware  of that point.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them. Therefore  I will only address Mr As compliant that Erudio delayed  
Ref: DRN02805082processing his deferment applications. I would add that this complaint is not against  the SLC 
and I am only considering  Erudios actions.
It seems  there was some misunderstanding as to what was required to allow Mr A make  a 
successful deferment  application. The SLC require  either paper  copies  of the tax return  with 
the declaration  box signed and dated.  Online  copies must show that the return  has been  
submitted and the date. The first two versions Mr A submitted were unsigned. I can see that 
Mr A was told in writing and by phone what was required and also reminded of the three  
month rollback limit. 
Although the financial  content  the tax return Mr A submitted on the later occasion was the 
same as the original one it was a finalised version  which was the requirement  of the SLC.  I 
appreciate Mr A has found the process  frustrating, but I believe Erudio made clear both in 
writing and on the phone what was required and didnt  delay replying  to him. I cannot see 
that it did anything  materially wrong and so I am unable to uphold  his complaint.
I would add that Erudio wasnt obliged to inform him of the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority in overseeing  its activities. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
8 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0280508