K821x#15Complaint
Mr N complained about HSBC UK Bank  Plc as they debited his account incorrectly.
background
Mr N had a current account  with HSBC from which the sum of £164.94 was taken by an 
insurance company  in July 2018.  Mr N disputed this and when they refused to refund the 
money, Mr N contacted HSBC for a refund. HSBC credited  this sum back  to his account the 
following day.
A few days  later, the insurance company had a change of heart  and provided  a full refund to 
Mr Ns account.  This meant  Mr N had received the refund twice.  The insurance company 
arranged for debt collectors to contact Mr N to seek repayment of the additional £164.94. 
After further investigation the insurance company agreed to reduce the sum owed  by £50 for 
compensation and accept  payment  for £114.94 to settle the matter. Mr N duly paid them the 
£114.94. Almost  a month later, in September, he noticed that a further sum of £164.94 had 
debited his account by HSBC.
Mr N telephoned HSBC  and spoke to the adviser who did not seem to understand that the 
account should not have  been debited with the sum of £164.94 in September. 
He asked to be put through  to the complaints department and explained why the bank had 
made an error. HSBC  mistakenly thought that Mr N had received a credit twice.  HSBC didnt 
take into account that Mr N had already  paid the sum of £114.94 to the insurance company 
and so he hadnt had the benefit of another  credit as they thought. HSBC said they could 
see the account had been debited with £114.94, but as the amount was different,  they didnt 
make the connection  between  this payment and the original payment. 
Mr N then took his complaint into a branch, where  a branch official  promised he would look 
into the matter and somebody  would get back to him. He promised to refund Mr Ns account 
with the £164.94 immediately plus £50 compensation whilst investigations were carried out.
 Mr N said nobody came  back  to him and he didnt  get a call from HSBC  as promised until 
he sent follow up emails,  and thats  when the branch official  responded. Mr N was 
disappointed that he had to provide his account  details again,  as these had already been 
given to the official once. Mr N also sent emails  to the HSBC CEO. They were 
acknowledged on his behalf with a reply that a response would be sent at the earliest 
opportunity.
Mr N complained to HSBC saying that he wasnt satisfied  with the way this matter  had been 
handled and he closed his current account which  meant  that his savers account was also 
automatically closed.  The savers account  was due to stay open  for 12 months but as it was 
closed early by HSBC, Mr N said he lost out on interest he was entitled to. 
HSBC didnt believe they did anything wrong.  They said they credited  Mr Ns account with 
£214.94 and referred to this as compensation. Although they didnt initially realise Mr Ns 
payment of £114.94  related to this issue, they said the compensation theyve paid is enough 
for the poor service he received.
 
Mr N disagreed and said that HSBC didnt consider the full facts and brought his complaint 
to this service. He asked  for compensation for the lack of service he received, an apology 
Ref: DRN03088562from the bank, 5% interest  accrued for the term of the deposits on the savings account that 
were closed and he wanted to know why the banks CEO didnt reply to him directly.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said that the sum of £200 in addition to the sums 
already credited to Mr Ns account  was fair and reasonable compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  he has suffered.  Mr N initially accepted our investigators  view but later 
asked this service to ask the bank to pay the full rate of interest on his savings account.  He 
says he closed the accounts as a direct result  of the lack of service from the bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I partially uphold this complaint and I will 
explain why. 
When the bank  took the payment of £164.94 Mr N knew what had happened  and called  
HSBC straight away to ask them to put matters right. He didnt expect them to 
misunderstand the situation and handle his call in the way that they did.
Having listened  to the call, the initial call handler  couldnt help him, but the staff member  in 
the complaints  team  also failed to grasp  that he had paid the insurance company directly. If 
they had taken the time to understand what he was saying to them, they may have grasped 
the facts and been able to rectify the situation  there  and then. There would have  been  no 
need for Mr N to go so far as raise  a formal complaint and close his accounts. 
HSBCs final response letter also didnt grasp the full facts, as it referred to the payment to 
the insurance company as being  genuine  and an amount that Mr N had to pay. This was an 
incorrect assumption, although it would have been prudent for Mr N to inform  the bank  of 
what he was doing when he made  the payment, the explanation  he provided to them  should 
have been sufficient for them to understand what had happened  and to take steps to put 
matters right.
The compensation in the sum of £200   in addition to the £50 already paid by HSBC  is a 
fair and reasonable sum to award  in the circumstances. This sum is in respect of the distress 
and inconvenience  suffered by Mr N as a result of the poor service he received from HSBC. 
Turning to Mr Ns request for an apology, I think that requiring the bank to pay the 
compensation is sufficient  in the circumstances, as I do think that Mr N should have told the 
bank that he had settled the disputed transaction with the insurance company and that he 
was paying them some money. However, I do not think  this is an excuse  for the bank to 
have misunderstood  the position  as Mr N provided a clear  explanation to them on the 
telephone and by letter. Overall I think the compensation  of £250 is a fair way to put things 
right.
Mr Ns complaint about not getting a response  from the CEO isnt one that I am going to 
uphold, as it wouldnt be within the scope of a CEO  to reply to each individual customers  
banking complaint, I would have expected this matter would have  been  dealt with by the 
banks complaints department. I see that Mr N did receive a prompt  response from the bank  
and although some of his emails werent responded to, HSBC  had already explained to Mr N 
why it might not respond. So I dont think HSBC  did anything wrong in relation to these 
issues. 
Ref: DRN03088563I am also not upholding Mr Ns claim for the full interest on his savings account to be paid. 
The reason  for this is that although  Mr N was fully intending to close his current account with 
the bank, he would have known that his savings account would be closed at the same  time 
thus the accounts terms and conditions would mean he would not be entitled  to the full 
interest rate for the year. Although Mr N felt very strongly about how HSBC had treated him, 
it was his choice  to close his current account.  HSBC hadnt asked him to do so, nor had they 
prevented him from continuing to bank with them. So, I dont think  HSBC is directly 
responsible for the interest Mr N says hes lost out on, as he could have mitigated his loss by 
keeping his account open until his savings account  matured. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I am partially  upholding this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  pay Mr N a total of £250  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience they caused  if they havent  already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0308856