K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1994 to protect Mr Ps mortgage 
repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  feel there  was enough information to uphold the complaint. Mr P 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint comes to me for a final decision.
Mr P mainly  complains that as he was employed full time, in a stable  job, with a good sick 
pay entitlement, he doesnt  think he wouldve needed the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
When Mr P completed his mortgage application form he crossed through  the PPI part of the 
form to indicate  that he didnt  want this insurance. So I think Mr P understood that it was up to 
him to say if he wanted to have PPI with his mortgage. And his mortgage was set up without PPI.
Sometime afterwards, it appears that Mr P changed his mind.  Ive seen a letter he wrote to 
Nationwide asking to take out the cover  and indicating  his insurance requirements. And so 
I find that the PPI was added to Mr Ps account when he chose to apply for it  although its 
completely understandable that Mr P forgot some of these details after so long. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. But it still had to make sure that it gave  him clear enough information so he was able to 
make a proper decision  about whether PPI was right for him. And if this didnt happen, then 
I have to think about whether this made any overall  difference to Mr P. 
The policy covered Mr P for up to 24 months per claim and protected  Mr P if he was unable 
to work because he was sick or disabled. It wouldve paid out in addition  to any employment 
benefits and for a lot longer than Mr P couldve relied on his employer to pay him sick pay if 
he was off work as a result of an accident  or illness. 
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely. The policy  wouldve also paid out if Mr P 
had lost his job and become unexpectedly  unemployed.
Ref: DRN04326412Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  But Mr P couldve 
made repeated claims on the policy, after a qualifying period back  at work,  giving  him long 
term protection for his mortgage.  Having PPI wouldve meant  Mr P could be sure hed 
always be able to keep  up the monthly repayments  in order to protect  his home.  So, I can 
see why Mr P mightve considered the policy  useful  in his particular circumstances. And 
I think that Mr P couldve benefitted from having PPI. 
Mr P was eligible for the policy.  Its possible there  were some shortcomings in the 
information Nationwide gave Mr P when he signed up for the policy.  For instance, there were 
some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected  Mr P. So 
I dont think that knowing  more about the policy terms and conditions wouldve put Mr P off 
taking out PPI as hed have got all the policy benefits he was expecting. 
I dont know what information Nationwide gave Mr P about  the PPI costs and benefits when 
he took it out. But it seems he wanted  this type of cover and Ive seen nothing  to suggest 
that paying for PPI was a problem for him. Mr P doesnt appear to have had significant other 
means to make his mortgage repayments  if he couldnt work. Given his particular 
circumstances, I can see why Mr P might reasonably have wanted to take advantage of the 
benefits PPI offered him. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr P wouldve made a different decision about whether to 
take out PPI if better information had been provided. So I dont find that hes lost out as a 
result of anything that Nationwide  mightve done wrong. This means it isnt required to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0432641