K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Cumberland Building Society  (CBS) mis-sold him payment protection insurance  
(PPI). 
background
Mr P took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage in 1998. The sale 
took place in one of CBSs branches. The policy gave him unemployment cover and he paid 
a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr P disagreed so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr P says the PPI section  was small and at the bottom of a page. The adviser  completed  all 
the forms and just told him where  to sign. I cant know  what was said in the meeting but Ive 
looked at the available paperwork. 
The PPI section on Mr Ps mortgage  application form was set out in the same format as the 
rest of the form. Hes right it was at the bottom of a page, but I think it was still as clear as 
the other sections. It gave  the options to select or decline PPI and he indicated that he 
wanted it. The options were set put with equal prominence.  He also signed  a separate PPI 
direct debit mandate and application  form. On this form he selected just unemployment 
cover (not the more common package of accident,  sickness and unemployment)  which  
suggests to me CBS discussed the cover with him. I know  Mr P says he was just told where  
to sign, but I would have expected him to read and understand what he was agreeing  to 
before signing.  Overall,  I think CBS made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr P chose 
to take it out.
CBS recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. Mr P says he 
was entitled to some redundancy  pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work 
benefit and for up to 9 months  for each successful  claim. It would have allowed him to 
protect any lump sum redundancy  payment  giving  increased financial stability at an already 
difficult time. Mr P says he had savings  of around  £5000 but the PPI would have allowed him 
to use these to cover  other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact  for his 
future needs. Mr P also says he had excellent  sick pay but this isnt relevant as his PPI 
policy only provided unemployment cover.
Mr P was borrowing a large  sum over a long period, secured on his home. So the effects of 
not keeping up the repayments  could have been  serious for him. Overall, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr P if he lost his job. 
Ref: DRN01210552Its possible CBS didnt  give Mr P all the information he needed before deciding  to buy PPI. I 
dont know when the cost was first made  clear  but the PPI was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. And I dont know that CBS pointed out the main  things  the PPI didnt  
cover. But Mr P doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions.  So 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI wouldve changed his mind about  buying  it.
This means  CBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But CBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  CBS didnt  tell Mr P, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, CBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In addition, CBS cant be sure it told Mr P he was responsible for cancelling  the policy  as 
was discussed  when he took out further  advances  in February 2013 and November 2015. 
So it has offered  to refund 100% of premiums for the months between those meetings and 
his subsequent annual PPI statement, and 50% of premiums paid in all other months  
between February 2013  and November  2018.  It will add simple interest of 8% a year to the 
refund from the date the premiums were  paid to the date of settlement*.  
This offer is detailed  in full in the final response letter  sent to Mr P on 22 November 2018. In 
the circumstances, I think  it is a fair and reasonable offer. Mr P should contact CBS directly  if 
he now wishes to accept  it. 
*HMRC requires CBS to deduct tax from this interest. CBS must  give Mr P a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.   
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Cumberland Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Cumberland Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0121055