K822xcomplaint
Miss C has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) handling 
of her car insurance policy.
background 
Miss Cs car was insured with AA. In November 2017, she was involved in an accident which  
wasnt her fault. She claimed on her policy.
AA arranged for Miss Cs car to be repaired by one of their approved  repairers (AR). But 
Miss C wasnt  happy because she felt the quality of repair  was poor and that the AR caused 
new damage to her car. AA asked an independent engineer to assess Miss Cs car. He said 
one area needed remedial work. The same AR carried out the remedial  work  but Miss C 
remained dissatisfied. Miss C was also unhappy with AAs service, in particular she wasnt  
happy with the way she was treated by AAs staff during a number of calls.  
AA said they didnt do anything wrong. Miss C brought  her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into it. During our investigators investigation  a further independent 
inspection was arranged  for Miss Cs car to be assessed. The engineer said that three minor 
issues needed addressing. He said all the other  issues Miss C had raised  were  unrelated  to 
the accident or the ARs  repair. AA had the additional work  costed  at £54.50  and said they 
were happy  to pay that to Miss C. Our investigator upheld Miss Cs complaint in part and 
said AAs service could  have been  better.  She suggested AA pay Miss C £300  
compensation and carry out the additional work  the independent engineer  suggested. AA 
said in the interests  of resolving the complaint, they were prepared  to pay the compensation 
and the £54.50 to Miss C. But as Miss C didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint in part for reasons similar  to those of our investigator.
The parties have  provided a vast amount of information and evidence. And they have  made 
very detailed  comments. Im aware that Miss C wanted to discuss her complaint with me. 
That isnt something  we generally do as our service is a paper based one. I have seen the 
email Miss C addressed  to me with her final comments. And Im satisfied that Miss C has 
adequately put across  her case and has made detailed  comments  throughout the life of this 
complaint. Ive considered all the information provided to me by the parties very carefully. Im 
not addressing  every  point that has been made.  Instead, in this decision I will focus  on what I 
consider to be the key outstanding issues. 
The complaint has somewhat  evolved  since Miss C asked us to look into it. Miss C has 
raised a number of new issues.  Ordinarily we would  have asked Miss C to raise those new 
issues with AA and bring  a separate complaint.  However,  AA agreed to us considering  those 
new issues under  this complaint reference which has saved Miss C the bother of having to 
make a separate complaint.  
the repair of the car
Ref: DRN09223772After AAs AR repaired Miss Cs car and it was returned to her she complained  that there 
were a number of issues. She said some new damage had been caused while the car was 
with the AR. She also said the AR failed to repair some of the accident related  damage  
adequately or not at all. To address that, AA asked an independent  engineer to assess  the 
car. He found that the repair to the area damaged during the incident (the rear right hand 
side of the car) hadnt  been repaired satisfactorily. He said other  areas Miss C was unhappy 
about were either unrelated to the accident  or repair, or they were as a result of wear and 
tear. AAs AR carried  out remedial  work as instructed by the independent engineer.
Miss C remained  unhappy  and said the remedial  repair wasnt up to standard;  that the other  
areas she mentioned  before hadnt been  addressed; and she raised new areas  of damage. 
Miss C provided a list of issues  she wanted addressing. AA instructed another  independent  
engineer who assessed the car, in particular the issues Miss C listed. The independent  
engineer said two minor issues related  to the accident and repair needed remedial work: (1) 
the quarter panel  moulding was loose  and needed a new clip; and (2) the rear edge of the 
door moulding was loose  which either  needed tightening or a new screw. The third issue the 
engineer said that needed  fixing was the electric  window  switch block  on the driver's door 
which had come out of its clips and needed  refitting.  The engineer didnt  say whether the 
third issue  was accident or repair related.  But AA agreed to address all three issues. AA said 
the cost of rectifying all three issues was £54.50. The engineer said all the other issues were  
either due to wear  and tear or unrelated to the accident or repair.
Miss C disagreed with the independent engineer.  Our investigator invited Miss C to get her 
own independent engineer to report on the issues she remained unhappy with. Although 
Miss C initially  said she would do that she later changed her mind  and didnt get her own 
engineering report. 
Given the engineering evidence available  to me, I accept that the mouldings on the rear 
quarter panel  on the right hand side of the car and on the drivers door are accident and 
repair related. The engineer said they are minor issues and require new clips and possibly a 
new screw. There is insufficient evidence to say whether the drivers  door electric  window 
block being loose  is accident or repair related. But AA have agreed to cover that. AA have  
costed getting  those issues rectified as £54.50. Miss C hasnt provided any evidence to 
dispute the cost of the rectification work. As Miss C said she will not return to the AAs AR, I 
require AA to pay that amount to Miss C.
service issues
Miss C said she has been  mistreated by AAs staff during a number of the calls she had with 
them. She said that treatment has had a very detrimental impact on her health and 
wellbeing. She also said there have been unreasonable  delays  and this matter has gone on 
for far too long.
I agree  with our investigator that the service could  have  been better. After the car was 
repaired Miss C had to raise her concerns on a number  of occasions before AA instructed an 
independent engineer to look into them. Also,  I think after Miss C remained dissatisfied with 
the remedial work done by the AR, AA should have instructed the second independent 
engineer to review  her concerns  sooner.  And while the vast majority of Miss Cs concerns  
were found  to be unrelated to the accident  or repair, some remedial work  was needed. I 
think that had the independent engineers been  instructed  sooner  some delays could have 
been avoided.
Ref: DRN09223773But I note that quite a bit of time was given to Miss C to allow her the chance to get her own 
engineer which she later decided against.  That being said, Im aware that she had 
unfortunate personal and private issues relating to herself and family  members which  she 
had to attend to.
I dont agree with Miss C that she was mistreated  by AAs call handlers. But given the fact 
that some  remedial work was required on her car, and that the service she received could 
have been better, I agree  with our investigator that AA should pay Miss C £300 
compensation to address the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited  to:
Pay Miss C the £54.50 cost of putting  right the issues with the car identified by the 
second independent engineer in his report dated 17 October  2018.
Pay Miss C £300  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Miss C has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If AA consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss C how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0922377