K821x#15the complaint
Mrs P says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on her. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mrs P says this meant she was 
unable to make a transfer to complete the purchase  of a house.  As a result, she spent all 
day at a TSB branch trying to get the transfer  completed. It finally  went through before the 
branch closed. But this meant she and her husband had to pack throughout the night,  as 
they were due to leave  their property the next day. 
Mrs P has also told us that, because she was in the branch trying to complete the transfer, 
she wasnt available to sell her kitchen  appliances  and so she lost out on a £300 sale.  
Shes said she also had some ongoing  issues making transfers online and sometimes had to 
visit the branch  to complete them. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She thought TSB should pay Mrs P £300  for the 
trouble and upset  caused to her. But the adjudicator didnt think  TSB should  refund £300 for 
the kitchen appliance, as Mrs P had no further  information to show  shed missed out on the 
sale.
Mrs P didnt think this was enough  compensation. She asked for:
£120 for the day she lost in the branch,
£120 for the day her husband lost looking after the children while she was in branch,
£240 for the time her and her husband  spent packing during the night,
£300 for the kitchen appliances she was unable  to sell,
£600 for the distress and inconvenience  cause to her whole family, including  her 
husband, her children and her parents.
Another adjudicator  looked at the complaint  again.  They agreed with the first adjudicator that 
£300 was a fair recommendation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mrs P. She 
explained that we can only consider the impact  the situation had on Mrs P  as shes the 
account holder.  
TSB accepted this recommendation. But Mrs P still thought £300 wasnt  enough 
compensation. So the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear that Mrs P feels very strongly  about  the effect the IT error  has had on her  which is 
reflected in the amount  of compensation she asked for, for herself and her family members.  
But I can only consider  the direct  financial  loss and distress and inconvenience  caused to 
Mrs P, because  she is the account  holder  and is TSBs customer. TSB is responsible  for 
compensating her. But it isnt responsible for compensating anyone  who isnt its customer.   
After considering the impact on Mrs P I think £300 compensation is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. And Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN04610962I understand that this whole situation mustve been a stressful  time for Mrs P and I do 
empathise with her situation. Moving house is a big life event and can be stressful without 
the added  complication of the transfer not being made as and when needed. Because  TSBs 
CHAPS payments system was affected by the IT issues,  it took longer to complete the 
transfer than it should  have done  and Mrs P wasnt prepared to leave the branch until she 
knew the payment  had been made. Ive considered the time Mrs P spent at the branch and 
the worry she says this caused   as well as what shes  told us about  the knock  on effects 
this had.   
But I also have to consider that the actual  delay in the payment being sent was around six 
hours  and it was ultimately sent on the day it needed to be. While  Mrs P was concerned  
about what might have happened  if the payment hadnt been  made  on time, I need to look at 
the actual impact this delay had on Mrs P instead  of what  couldve happened.
Mrs P has asked  for £120 for her lost day in the branch, as well as £120 for the time she 
spent packing.  But it doesnt appear shes lost a days wages because of this. And from what 
shes said it appears she always  wouldve had to spend her day sending the money and 
packing up her house.  The time she spent completing the transfer meant she packed  later 
than she planned  to, but Ive already taken that into account when thinking about  a fair 
award for distress and inconvenience.  
Mrs P has also said she lost out on the sale of her kitchen appliances because  she was in 
the TSB branch instead of at home. Our adjudicator asked for some more information about  
this, but Mrs P didnt  have  anything to show that the loss of the sale was a direct  result  of the 
TSB IT errors. So the adjudicator explained we were unable to take this into consideration. 
Mrs P still hasnt  been able to provide  anything  further so I dont think its fair to ask TSB to 
refund the £300 Mrs P is claiming for this.
Assessing distress and inconvenience is subjective. And I do appreciate that Mrs P feels  
shes entitled to a higher amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. But I have  to decide  what I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
Taking everything into account,  I think the compensation the adjudicator  has already 
recommended  and TSB has agreed to  is a fair amount of compensation. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should pay Mrs P £300 for the impact the IT issues  had on her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Ref: DRN04610963Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0461096