K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays  Bank  PLC closed  a bank account without any notice,  keeping  
the funds that were  in the account. When the problem came  to light Barclays  didnt reinstate 
the account and has dealt  with the complaint poorly.
background
Mrs C held a joint bank  account with Barclays with her now late husband, Mr C. In March 
2014 Barclays recorded that the account should be kept open.  But Barclays  closed the 
account as dormant in May 2014.
In 2015, Mrs C complained to Barclays about the closure of the account. Barclays  
responded to say that the account was correctly  closed as dormant and that to claim the 
balance of the account, Mrs C should  make a claim online.
In 2018, Mrs C and her representatives complained  to Barclays that she wanted the account 
to be reinstated.  But Barclays  said it cant do that due to the time that has elapsed since  the 
account was closed. It offered Mrs C £93.24   representing the closing balance of the 
account of £24.59, interest of £10.81 (less tax) and £50 for any distress caused.
Mrs C and her representatives want Barclays to credit the funds it took when it wrongly  
closed the account and to pay compensation on a high scale  for failing to adequately 
address the complaint, reply  to Mrs Cs solicitors or reimburse  the legal costs it has charged.
Our investigator thought that Barclays offer was fair in the circumstances. Mrs Cs 
representatives didnt  accept what the investigator said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that Barclays hasnt treated  Mrs C fairly here. It shouldnt have closed the account as 
dormant in 2014. It also didnt handle the 2015  complaint  very well  if it had it would have 
come to light that the account had been requested to be kept open.  But Im afraid complaint 
handling isnt a regulated  activity. Under our rules I dont have the power to consider  how 
Barclays handled that complaint or the later complaint.
Barclays says that it cant  reopen  the account  after all this time  and this isnt out of line with 
my understanding of banking practice. So I wont ask it to reinstate the account.
Barclays has agreed to refund the balance with interest at 8% simple. That covers  the 
financial loss to Mrs C. That leaves what is suitable  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
Mrs C has experienced  as a result  of what happened.  
I have to take into account  that the amount  in the account was only around £30. While 
Barclays has caused Mrs C trouble and upset, I consider its offer of £50 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here and taking into account everything that Mrs C and her 
representatives have  told us  bearing in mind I cant consider how Barclays handled the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN04686522Our usual  position  is that it isnt necessary to have legal representation to bring a complaint 
to us. It was Mrs Cs decision to instruct solicitors to represent her in dealing  with the 
complaint. In view of that, I dont consider it would be fair to say that Barclays should meet 
her legal costs in respect of this matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  Plc should pay Mrs C and the estate  of the late Mr C 
£93.24  as broken down  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0468652