K822xcomplaint 
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly  
increased the cost of their pet insurance policy each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr and Mrs C took out, will continue to cover 
any medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy  is renewed each 
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions 
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums  carry on being paid. The 
yearly cost of these lifetime policies  can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim 
is made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr and Mrs C. It has 
accepted the information  it gave Mr and Mrs C about the policy  wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. And RSA has offered to pay them £1,250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset theyve been caused  as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have told us theyre  not happy  with the offer RSA has made because they 
took the policy on the basis it would  cover their pet for life, but it has now become 
unaffordable. The cost of the policy has increased  substantially more than a similar  policy 
they have for another pet with a different  insurer, even though higher claims have been 
made under that policy. Mr and Mrs C feel the increase in the cost of their policy  with RSA is 
above the national average  and RSA will not show them what factors  have  been  considered  
when arriving at their premium. They expected an increase and changes  to their policy when 
their pet reached  age nine, as this was stated in their policy,  but there was nothing to 
prepare them for such large premium increases when  their pet was just six years  old.
Mr and Mrs C say they have been  bullied by RSA since it took over as the underwriter for 
their policy,  and that RSA is trying  to discourage them from continuing  with the policy.  
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. 
All insurers assess risk in different ways, so it follows  that the amount you pay for insurance  
with different providers  will also be different. Most  insurers consider many different factors  
when deciding how much  to charge for the policies they offer. While the pets age will usually 
be a factor,  other things such as claims history  and claims inflation will also be taken into 
account. The factors an insurer  uses to arrive at the premiums it charges are part of its 
underwriting criteria which is commercially  sensitive, and I wouldnt expect it to make this 
information available to Mr and Mrs C. Insurers also have different ways  of calculating what 
they charge for the polices they offer which will mean insurers  offer different prices. But this 
doesnt mean they are doing  anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN05558262I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  cost. I would be, in effect, 
determining or telling a business how it should operate   and thats  not my role. So I cant 
say the cost of Mr and Mrs Cs policy is too high, they should have been charged  less for the 
policy or that they should be charged less in the future.
While Mr and Mrs Cs premium has seen significant  increases  since  RSA took over as the 
insurer, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest RSA has treated them differently to how it 
would have treated  any other policyholder in the same position. Or that RSA is trying  to 
specifically discourage Mr and Mrs C from renewing their policy. So I cant tell RSA to 
charge them  a lower  premium going forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr and Mrs C a significant amount of distress, they 
have increased  the excess  applicable  to their policy to keep costs down, and due to the 
medical conditions  their pet has had, they will find it difficult to find equivalent cover 
elsewhere. I also recognise the likely  continuing  increases in the premium in future  years  
may mean they are not be able to afford to continue with the policy.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr and Mrs C the information  they needed to 
understand they could end up in the position  they now find themselves in. Where I find 
something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a 
consumer has lost out.
If Mr and Mrs C hadnt  taken a lifetime policy, they wouldve either had no cover  at all, and 
would have had to pay for all their pets treatment themselves, or a reduced level of cover, 
where they would  still have  found  themselves in a situation where  their pets  conditions  were 
no longer covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr and Mrs C having cover  for ongoing conditions  at a fixed or capped premium   
this type of policy typically didnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put them  in this 
position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr and Mrs C have 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Mr and Mrs C for the 
trouble and upset  theyve  been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr and Mrs C £1,250 compensation 
is fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0555826