K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy  was 
taken out when Mr and Mrs H applied for a loan in one of the banks branches. The policy  
was taken out in Mr Hs name only and covered him for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs H didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that:
They  had the money to keep  up with the repayments.
Mr H already  had insurance to cover  him for sickness if he couldnt work.
There was too much paperwork to complete.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
The loan agreement  form included  equally clear  options to accept or decline the PPI. In all 
likelihood, the member of staff would have filled in the application  form electronically  during 
the meeting with Mr and Mrs H and printed  it off for signature. As part of this process,  the 
member of staff would have needed  Mr Hs agreement  to the PPI insurance so that the Yes  
box could be crossed.  Mr and Mrs H signed the agreement to confirm that the details, 
including the application for PPI, were correct.  Ive taken into account what  theyve said 
about the volume of paperwork  the PPI application  was completed at the same time as the 
loan application.  But they wouldve been  given  time to read through the paperwork before 
they signed it. So, overall, I think  Mr and Mrs H were  made aware that the PPI was optional 
and that they agreed to take it. Im not surprised they cant  remember this given the time 
thats passed.
Halifax recommended  the PPI but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based  on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time. Mr H wasnt sure whether he wouldve 
received any pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. Even 
if he wouldve received  generous sick pay, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 60 months in 
the event of a successful  claim. The policy also covered Mr H for up to 12 months if he 
became unemployed. So I think the PPI couldve been  a useful benefit.
The cost of the policy was set out in the loan agreement form  £13.68  a month.  So I find 
that Mr and Mrs H knew  how much  the policy was going to cost before they agreed to it.
Ref: DRN00713562Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have  wanted  this 
type of cover. Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I think 
they would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs H have  told us. Theyve said that Mr H already had 
an insurance policy, but this seems  to have been taken out to provide cover  when he 
became self-employed. When he took this PPI policy  in 2001   he was employed and 
more likely than not didnt have any other cover in place. Mr and Mrs H have said they were 
always able to keep  up with the repayments.  But the purpose of this policy  was to meet their 
loan repayments  if Mr H was unable to work or was made unemployed, when it wouldve 
been difficult to meet the loan repayments  with their other financial commitments.  So the 
points Mr and Mrs H have raised  dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0071356