K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr C had seven loans  from Sunny between February  2015  and February  2016  as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Scheduled 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 11 Feb 2015 £350 6m £107.30 31 Jul 2015 30 Jun 2015
2 14 Jul 2015 £500 6m £153.09 31 Dec 2015 18 Nov 2015
3 10 Sep 2015 £150 6m £46.68 29 Feb 2016 1 Jan 2016
4 22 Sep 2015 £100 6m £28.55 29 Feb 2016 7 Feb 2016
5 14 Jan 2016 £400 6m £120.62 30 Jun 2016 7 Feb 2016
6 7 Feb 2016 £650 6m £205.18 29 Jul 2016 £128.60 O/S
Repayment plan
7 15 Feb 2016 £300 6m £88.44 29 Jul 2016 1 Dec 2016
Repayment plan
Mr C says he was using  multiple short-term lenders over a prolonged period of time and was 
using one loan to repay another. He says he could not afford the repayments  and, if Sunny 
had checked his credit file, it would have realised it should not have lent to him. He says the 
stress of the situation affected his personal  life.
Sunny says it carried out affordability and creditworthiness checks  and considered  it 
responsible to lend to Mr C.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld in part. She found that, by 
loan 6, Mr Cs pattern of borrowing suggested he had become reliant  on short-term lending.  
She recommended interest and charges should be refunded  on loans 6 and 7 (plus  8% 
statutory interest) and that loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
Sunny responded to say, in summary,  that its checks showed the repayments on loans 6 
and 7 were affordable to Mr C and that there was nothing to indicate he was struggling 
financially.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN05352582But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated lending 
may signal  that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Loans 1 to 4
Im satisfied that Sunny did enough checks before it approved these loans and I cant see 
there was anything in the available information  to suggest Mr C was having trouble 
managing his money.
Loan 5
Mr C applied for loan 5 shortly after repaying  loan 3 and with loan 4 still outstanding.  As this 
was his fifth loan in less than a year, and it was for a higher amount  than the previous two 
loans, Id have  expected  Sunny to have carried out a full financial review. I cant  see it did 
that so Ive had a look to see what such a review would have found.
Mr Cs income  was in line with the £2,200  hed declared and, although his expenditure was 
slightly higher, and he had two other short-term loans at the time,  I cant conclude this made  
loan 5 unaffordable to him. So I cant say Sunny was wrong to approve loan 5.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN05352583Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
By loan 6, Mr C had been borrowing  from Sunny continuously for almost  a year;
The amount  requested for loan 6 was the highest so far;
Mr C applied for loan 6 the same day hed repaid loans 4 and 5. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having  to borrow  further to cover 
the hole repaying  his previous loans  was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Cs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  6 was a 
year after his first loan and it was for almost  twice the amount. Mr C had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an extended period;
Mr C had difficulties repaying  loans 6 and 7 the same month he took them out. 
Although this isnt relevant to the lending decision, it is a clear indication that Mr C 
wasnt managing  his loans in a sustainable manner.
I think Mr C lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Cs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 6 and 7 and Sunny should put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Elevate Credit International Limited (trading  as 
Sunny) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr C paid on loans 6 and 7;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for loan 6, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr C; 
The number of loans  taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mr Cs credit file (once loan 6 has been repaid).
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0535258