K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains about the service she received in branch  and HSBC  UK Bank Plcs decision 
to close her current account. 
background
Ms L visited a HSBC branch on 22 August 2018 and says the cashier was slow and chatting. 
Ms L says she politely asked the cashier  to serve her and the other customers  waiting in the 
queue.
HSBC says that Ms L was aggressive  and rude when she visited  the branch. As a result, 
following her visit, it took the decision to write  to her and explain it was closing her account 
with 60 days notice.  
Ms L has told us she visited six other  banks  to try and open  a new account  but because  
shes subject to an IVA none of her applications  were successful. Ms L went  back to HSBC  
and complained. HSBC paid Ms L £100 and agreed  to keep her current account  open. 
As part of Ms Ls complaint she says she asked  whether the cashier would be retrained or 
be subject to disciplinary  procedures. 
Ms L referred her complaint to this service and an investigator looked at it. Initially  the 
investigator upheld  the complaint and asked  HSBC to pay an additional £150 for not 
following the right process when  arranging to close Ms Ls account. But they later changed 
their view because of additional information  provided by HSBC and said they thought the 
£100 it had already paid was a fair way to resolve  Ms Ls complaint. As Ms L didnt agree the 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background  of this complaint as Ms L has 
provided a detailed explanation of what happened. I want to assure Ms L and HSBC  that Ive 
carefully considered  everything thats  been  provided. 
There are a number of issues here but I think the most important is whether HSBC acted 
fairly when  it decided to close  Ms Ls account after her visit on 22 August 2018. Ms L and 
HSBC have both given differing versions of what happened in branch. Both parties accuse 
the other of unacceptable behaviour. I dont know what  happened in branch, but its clear 
there was a misunderstanding between  HSBC and Ms L.  
As a result of that misunderstanding  HSBC  took the decision to close Ms Ls current account 
because it thought her behaviour in branch was improper. Whilst I appreciate Ms L feels  this 
wasnt fair, the account terms  do allow HSBC to take that step. The terms say: 
How we can end this agreement and close  accounts 
Immediately and without  notice
Ref: DRN00464062We can do this if: your behaviour is improper, for example you act in a threatening or violent 
manner towards staff
HSBC hasnt said that Ms L was violent when she visited the branch in August 2018 but it 
has said that it found her behaviour improper  and as a result  it decided to end its banking  
relationship with her. Im sorry  to disappoint  Ms L but HSBC  is free to decide whether its 
willing to continue to provide banking  services and, in this case, Im satisfied it had grounds  
to close her account because it felt her behaviour in branch wasnt acceptable. 
There was an error  here because of the type of current account  Ms L holds. Ms L has a 
basic current account and was given 60 days notice that HSBC intended to close it. Strictly 
speaking, the terms say HSBC shouldve taken  that step immediately instead of giving 60 
days notice. But, like the investigator,  I think this error worked in Ms Ls favour  as it meant  
she had time to investigate obtaining accounts  elsewhere. As Ive said above, I think  HSBC  
had the right to close Ms Ls account  and it couldve taken that step with immediate effect. 
Instead it gave  60 days notice and went on to reconsider  the decision. 
HSBC paid Ms L £100 because she visited other  banks but wasnt able to open  another 
account. HSBC  took on board Ms Ls difficulties opening another  account  and decided  to 
leave her current account open.  But Im not persuaded that means HSBCs initial  decision 
was wrong or unfair. 
In her response to the investigator Ms L says she wants proof that the cashier was correctly 
disciplined or retrained.  But thats not something I can tell HSBC to give Ms L. Its up to 
HSBC to decide what training it gives staff. My role is to look at any errors  that mayve  
impacted Ms L and to decide whether HSBC  dealt with her complaint fairly. 
Ms L has raised concerns about  the credit searches the other  banks completed when 
looking at a new current account for her. I understand Ms Ls concerns but as I havent found  
HSBC acted unfairly or made an error when it took the decision to close her current account 
it follows that she needed to approach other banks which would in turn complete  credit 
searches. 
In this case, whilst  I cant say what happened  in branch, Im satisfied  HSBCs  terms allowed 
it to decide to close Ms Ls current account  if it feels her behaviour was improper. I agree 
there was an error when  it wasnt closed with immediate effect but I havent found that error 
led to a loss or unreasonably impacted Ms L. HSBC later reconsidered its decision and paid 
Ms L £100 and Im satisfied thats fair in all the circumstances. As I think HSBC has dealt 
with Ms Ls complaint  fairly Im not telling it to increase its offer or take any further  action. 
Ref: DRN00464063my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046406