K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) did not comply with leverage guidelines 
and that margin  call alerts  unreasonably prompted him into crystalizing  losses.  The 
complaint is also about whether (or not) he was properly informed about the risks and 
leverage workings within his Contract  for Differences (CFD) trading account.  He says he lost 
around £20,000 as a result of the complaint  issues  and he seeks  recovery of this.
background
Plus500 disputes the complaint. In the main,  it says:
It offers an execution only platform service and this was clear  in the terms for the 
account, risk disclosure and user agreement documents that Mr B was aware of and 
agreed to. These documents  informed him about the risks and leveraging  within his 
account.
Based  on information Mr B provided in the account opening appropriateness 
assessment process  in which he presented himself as someone with an 
understanding of CFDs  and as someone with professional involvement and 
experience in trading shares, bonds and derivatives  the account was assessed as 
being appropriate for him.
Mr B was contractually obliged to inform himself about all aspects (including risks 
and leveraging)  of his trading and he made his own trading decisions. 
Its leverage settings were and are compliant with the restrictions put in place by the 
European Securities  and Markets Authority (ESMA) since 1 August 2018 and there is 
evidence within the details of Mr Bs trading  positions which confirm that the 
restrictions were  reflected in the leverage  he used.
Mr B was also contractually obliged to monitor his margin  exposure and to add funds 
to the account  in response to margin calls.  The margin calls served the purpose of 
warning customers like him ahead of an impending  margin  breach  and to give them 
the opportunity  to fund the account  in order to avoid  such  a breach. In Mr Bs case, it 
was his decision to close positions at a loss instead.
The total loss stated by Mr B is inaccurate, the accurate net loss figure is £6,224.65.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, he broadly agreed with Plus500s position 
(and reasons) and he concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. He agreed with 
Plus500s assessment  of the account  as being  appropriate for Mr B, he agreed that 
information about the risks and workings  of the account were shared with Mr B, he agreed 
that the leverage settings were compliant with regulation and he noted  that the margin  call 
alerts were  requested by Mr B (and were for the purpose that Plus500  described).
Mr B disagreed with this outcome  and retained  his view that the leverage  settings  were  
unfair. The matter was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Appropriateness
Ref: DRN05050572Appropriateness is assessed  on the basis of information from a client  to a firm about whether 
the client has sufficient  knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the 
service or product offered  by the firm. In Mr Bs case, we have been given evidence of his 
account opening responses  in which he confirmed having an understanding of CFDs, 
experience of trading shares, bonds and derivatives and a relevant professional 
qualification/education. In such circumstances, I do not consider that the account was 
inappropriate for him.
Terms, Risk and Leverage
There is sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr Bs agreement  with the terms and risk 
disclosures for his account  indicate his awareness  of (and agreement to) information about  
the execution  only service in the account;  his responsibility to be familiar with the aspects of 
trading in the account; the risks inherent in CFD trading  and the workings (and risks within)  
the leverage aspect  of such  trading;  his responsibility to monitor and manage his account 
(including avoiding  and/or addressing  margin calls); and his responsibility  to make trading 
and trading related decisions in the account.  I do not consider that any of these was 
misrepresented or unknown to him.
Compliance with regulation
Like the investigator, I too consider that the leverage settings in Mr Bs account  were 
compliant with the ESMA restrictions for retail  accounts. It appears that his displeasure in 
this respect relates  more  to his view that it was inappropriate for him to have been exposed 
to the leverage  levels (and associated risks) in his trading  positions   and that this aspect 
multiplied his losses. 
However, as I addressed  above, the account was not inappropriate for him  based on 
Plus500s appropriateness assessment, which was based on representations he appears to 
have made.  It follows that  in the context  of the execution only service,  the risk disclosures 
and warnings and his sole responsibility to monitor and manage his trading  it was Mr Bs 
responsibility to monitor  and manage his exposure to risk (including leverage  related  risk).
Margin Calls
These existed for the benefit of customers with open  positions  which  were accumulating 
losses and creating an imminent risk of margin breach. I can understand why Mr B says he 
was alarmed by them, but the point is that they served to alert him to an imminent  margin 
breach problem and to give him an opportunity to avoid such a problem. Evidence suggests  
that they were  also requested in the settings for Mr Bs account, so it would appear  that he 
received the margin  calls because he asked for them.
The agreed terms informed Mr B of his responsibility  to monitor his account margin and, 
upon a margin  call, to make  payments  into the account in order  to avoid a margin breach  
and in order to maintain  his open positions. Where he chose not to make such payment(s) 
and instead to close his trading positions (at a loss), that was done at his discretion and by 
his choice. I do not consider that there is a reasonable basis to hold Plus500 responsible for 
such closures.
Ref: DRN05050573my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 13 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0505057