K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that MacArthur Denton  Asset Management Limited  (MDAM) wrongly 
advised them to surrender  their existing ISA-based investments and put this money in an 
unsuitable investment  product  in 2014.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 29 November  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs M replied, saying that the £200  in cash passed to them in an envelope  was 
supposedly a cashback sum for the life insurance policy they were  sold in their sons name; 
not for the investments. They still have  concerns about  this insurance policy and the two life 
policies they were recommended by this advisor, whose behaviour was deceitful and solely 
driven by maximizing  her commission. 
MDAM disagreed with my decision, and said:
It doesnt accept  that Mr and Mrs M were  given a share of the commission, as I 
stated; rather, they were  registered as introducers  after enquiring about advice for 
their son; a fee was paid and a policy set up
The bank  asked  them  to find a new advisor;  it doesnt accept  that its advisor 
contacted them,  or that interest rates had plummeted; nor does it accept that Mr and 
Mrs M said this when  they contacted it
There is evidence to show the advisor  compared  performance on the respective 
investments and the impact of the additional charges; also,  that there was a risk of 
not getting a high return
The advisor offered  an annual review  to rebalance their funds in line with their risk 
profile; this was no longer available via the bank as it no longer offered  an active 
management option
The report highlighted that the switch would result in a 0.8% higher annual charge 
It does not accept my contention that there is limited scope for greater returns via 
fixed-interest assets; and it has previously supplied  an analysis of company  returns 
via fixed-interest  assets which disproves this
It has always dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms concerns speedily and with full consideration 
yet I propose an additional £500 in lieu of the delays and the trouble and upset 
caused by these. So it does not accept this
Why was no consideration given by me or the adjudicator originally to an additional  
£500 award for all these reasons?  Once it was made clear  that the delays originally 
given as a reason  for the £500 award  were clearly not MDAM issue, this award  was 
withdrawn and replaced with the same amount for an entirely different reason not 
mentioned in my original  findings. This seems arbitrary and unfair
It wants confirmation that my findings  relate  solely to the transfer of the ISAs 
previously held with Scottish Widows
New investments were also arranged at the time when the previous  providers did not 
offer these investment options; these  were investments of new capital which  came  
from deposit funds  and involved no switch, transfer or surrender of any previously 
held investment product
Ref: DRN00451822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having read both parties recent 
comments, I am still satisfied that this complaint should be upheld and with the 
compensation outlined previously. I will therefore  limit my comments to the new points raised 
by MDAM,  and why I do not believe they warrant altering my decision.
Firstly, on the question  of how the advice meeting came about, I remained satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs Ms account is convincing, and more likely than not to be accurate. They clearly 
stated in numerous letters/emails that the advisor  approached them  and initiated the 
meeting, and said she had obtained  their details from her previous employers database. 
Although this is likely to have been  a breach of data protection law and probably other 
regulatory rules, MDAM has not in my view  unequivocally denied this or provided any 
persuasive evidence  to the contrary.
MDAM claims  that Mr and Mrs Ms bank told them to get new advice, presumably implying 
that they approached its advisor.  I have  seen persuasive evidence  to support this. I have no 
doubt that their bank  will have explained  that it could no longer offer advice and that clients 
might wish to consider getting advice elsewhere;  I think it is highly unlikely that it would have 
told people  they ought to get new advice as this would, in itself,  constitute advice. Further, 
MDAM has provided no evidence to indicate how Mr and Mrs M would  have been  able to 
obtain the contact details  for this former bank employee; I think it is highly unlikely the bank 
would have done this as this also could have been  construed as recommending  someone.
I therefore do not accept that there  is any persuasive evidence that Mr and Mrs M were 
looking to surrender their existing investments,  something which has a significant  bearing on 
the subsequent advice  and its suitability. I also accept their evidence  that they were not 
dissatisfied with their existing investments or about  so-called plummeting returns, and that 
the advisors report was therefore not an accurate account of their attitude. The fact that 
returns were not plummeting, as MDAM pointed out, merely reinforces my concerns about 
what the advisor might have said.
I further think that the advisors subsequent behaviour in paying them  a cash  in an envelope 
sum for agreeing to an insurance policy casts very real doubt  on her professional  conduct 
overall, and the reliability of any of her evidence. I do not find MDAMs defence  of the 
payment as an introducer convincing or acceptable  (even though it admits the way it was 
done was not acceptable). 
Given these concerns, I am persuaded  on the balance  of probabilities  that the advisor 
actively misled  Mr and Mrs M about the likely returns on their new investments, particularly 
given their very clear  and specific recollections  as to what  sort of return  she was promising  
or suggesting they could expect. I think it is unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made  up 
these specific figures.  
Taking account of all these factors, I do not believe Mr and Mrs M were in a fully informed  
position to decide whether to surrender their existing  investments and incur higher charges 
via new ones. Therefore,  I do not think it is necessary to reach a definitive conclusion  about 
several of MDAMs repeated points about  the potential variation in returns of fixed-interest 
assets and the potential  advantages of a management portfolio.  
Ref: DRN00451823That said,  given Mr and Mrs Ms risk profile,  and the fact that this was unlikely to change  in 
the near future,  I dont  accept MDAMs argument that its ability  to reassess their risk profile  
regularly justified this unnecessary and costly switch at that point in time. Nor do I accept 
that she had sufficiently information  about  their existing investments to safely  say that the 
recommended new funds were more  likely  than not to produce a higher  return  after the 
higher charges were taken account  of.
For the reasons  previously outlined, MDAM must refund the remaining half of the upfront fee 
and add 8% simple interest per annum to this figure from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement of this complaint. It should also assume  the 0.8% of Mr and Mrs Ms reinvested 
money spent on higher  ongoing charges had instead been invested  and delivered the same 
return as the investment  itself. It should  then add 8% simple  interest  to this sum from the 
date of surrender  of the investment to the date of settlement of this complaint (if indeed they 
have surrendered it).
In my provisional decision I explained  why I felt MDAM and its advisor  had caused  Mr and 
Mrs M very considerable trouble and upset due to her inappropriate behaviour and 
inappropriate advice  which had cleared made them very concerned  about  all the products 
they had agreed  to buy. So this £500 was not for any alleged delays. I therefore instruct  
MDAM to pay an additional sum of £500 in lieu of the considerable trouble and upset 
caused, for the reasons  previously outlined. 
Finally, I should explain  that the adjudicator and I have solely looked at the issue  of whether 
Mr and Mrs M should have been  advised  to surrender their existing investments and put this 
sum in the new investment.  This is the sole issue which  MDAM considered in its Final 
Response Letter, and the only one investigated so far.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint letter to this service  said that they wanted all the 
plans/policies sold by MDAM/this advisor  to be investigated but this has not happened so far 
as we are only able to investigate  matters  where  a business has had an opportunity  to 
considered things.
So if Mr and Mrs M want to complain  about  the £15,000 of new money they agreed  to invest 
at the time or about the various insurance  policies, they must first make an official complaint 
to MDAM  about these;  if they are unhappy with its response, they can then make a fresh  
complaint to this service  about any of these  recommendations.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  MacArthur Denton Asset Management  Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00451824Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that MacArthur Denton Asset Management Limited  (MDAM) wrongly advised 
them to surrender their existing ISA-based investments and put this money in an unsuitable  
investment product  in 2014.
background
This advice came from the person who had recommended  their existing investments while working for 
a different business  and occurred shortly after she had moved to MDAM. Mr and Mrs M also 
complained that the advisor had obtained their contact  details from her previous business, contrary  to 
data protection rules, and paid them a share of the commission in cash  in an envelope (for an 
insurance policy rather  than this product).
MDAM accepted that the cash payment was made in breach of its procedures  but felt the advice  
offered was appropriate. As a gesture of goodwill, they paid Mr and Mrs M an ex-gratia sum of 
£757.87; this amounted to half the fees they had paid for the advice.
An investigator at this service described Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time as:
Mr M and Mrs M were  63 and 61 respectively, employed and in receipt  of a private  pension
They  owned their home and had land worth  £50,000
Their savings  and investments, including  their deposit-based accounts, stocks and shares 
and cash ISAs  amounted to £61,000
Their attitude to investment risk was recorded as level 4 - low/medium  risk i.e. below average 
risk investors
The advisor  recorded that they were  concerned about current rates of return
According to the advisor, they agreed to review  of their finances as their previous advisory 
firm no longer offered  ongoing  advice
In the investigators  opinion, the new investments were similar in nature to the old ones.  Both were 
made up of a mixed  portfolio of equities, fixed interest, property and overseas assets. In terms of the 
charges, the comparison showed that the annual management charge  applied to the old ISAs was 
1.50% per annum.  The reduction yield applied  to the new ISAs was 2.30%  i.e. 0.8% more. 
Overall, she didnt think the new arrangement offered any additional  benefit to Mr and Mrs M as the 
funds needed to grow by 0.8%  more to have any chance of being  better than the ones before. Given 
the funds were generally low risk there was a real risk of the investments not performing as well as 
the previous ones taking account of the higher charges.
She noted that MDAM claimed the new investments  were more beneficial as it met Mr and Mrs Ms 
need for an actively managed investment  portfolio following the withdrawal of their previous 
investment service. But given the low attitude to risk and the makeup  of the two funds, she said there 
was a limit to what could be changed i.e. the advisor could only rebalance the fund by selecting other 
low risk assets - which wouldnt vary much in return. She didnt think  this was explained very clearly 
compared with the focus on the potential benefits of this switch.
She said as this was not suitable advice MDAM  should repay all the advisors initial fees paid (less 
the £757.87 paid) together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were  paid to the 
Ref: DRN00451825date of settlement  of the complaint. It should also repay the difference between the previous 1.5% 
annual management  charge and the new 2.30% annual  deduction.
MDAM did not agree,  and said:
Mr and Mrs M did not complain that the recommended investments were unsuitable;  merely 
that their performance  was exaggerated, with 7% and 9% growth  being  alleged.  This was 
expressed as disappointment about the actual performance
There is no documentary evidence  to support these allegations
The transfers preserved  their ISA protection
As a fully independent business it had access to far more funds  than the previous business 
and funds  were switched  annually  without charges
There was a potential for the new funds to deliver  higher growth  over the medium to long term 
taking account the higher charges
The higher performance necessary was referred to in the advisors report
The return  on different funds with similar levels  of risk expose can and do vary significantly
The fees were mainly a result of the ongoing annual charge.  If it has to repay the advice 
charge and the difference in cost, it is being 'double  charged'. In effect, the client was charged 
0.75% per annum  for a review service. This meant an overall increase in client costs of 
approximately 0.8%
When I read this case file I sought further clarification  from Mr and Mrs M about certain  issues. This 
was their response:
They  had no concern  about  their existing  investments or their performance
The advisor, now at MDMN, contacted them after interest rates had plummeted  and assured 
them, she could  recommend  investments  that would deliver better returns
She said she had taken  their data from her previous employer. It was only when they became 
aware of the full scale of her deception that they realised she had broken the data protection  
act
Over a series of review  meetings, she declared  that the Aviva fund had accrued  a return  of 
9%
 She promised them £200 cash back for the policy  in their sons name. After many requests 
she handed this over in cash  in an envelope. This made them suspicious  and prompted them 
to obtain online  access to the fund. This revealed  that it had not accrued  9% but was worth 
less
Given their long-standing relationship with her, they were  devastated that she had lied about  
the funds performance in order to persuade them  increase  the investment  level. Apart from it 
being unethical they felt personally wounded
When the extent of her deception was laid bare, they wondered if she had sold them  the best 
policies or simply ones that gave her the best commission
Ref: DRN00451826my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In this case I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I wont therefore  repeat all 
the details points she made as to why this complaint should be upheld  beyond  saying that I too do not 
think the evidence warranted  this switch.
Overall, I found Mr and Mrs Ms evidence  clear and convincing and I am satisfied,  on the balance  of 
probabilities, that the advisor misled them about the returns  on the recommended fund such that they 
were not in an informed position to decide whether to switch to an investment with higher charges 
which, by definition,  needed higher returns to achieve even  the same level of growth.
I accept MDAMs argument  that different funds with the same broad risk exposure can and do deliver 
differing returns.  But such differences cannot be safely predicted  let alone guaranteed  so higher 
charges are a major factor in deciding  whether to switch to a product with a broadly similar mix of 
assets. Importantly,  the recommended funds included  52% in fixed interest (where there is little, if 
any, scope for higher returns). So, in fact there needed to be significantly higher returns on the other 
48% to clawback the higher  commission let alone deliver better overall returns. 
Ive seen no evidence that the advisor spelled this out in a way that made clear  the obvious risks in 
this switch. Her advice, in my view,  was one-sided and flawed.
Given this I am satisfied  that Mr and Mrs M, if properly  advised  (or not advised  at all), would  have 
retained their existing  investments and not undertaken this switch. In this scenario, the general 
approach of this service is to try to put them back into the position they would now be in but for such  a 
switch. However,  the investigator  did not propose such  a calculation; instead merely  focused on a 
return of fees.
On balance, I think  this was a reasonable  approach  for several reasons.  It is not possible to safely say 
how her previous investment would have performed, given possible fund switches, so I dont think  a 
comparison of relative returns would be straightforward. I also cant  discount the possibility that Mr 
and Mrs M might have  obtained other more  suitable advice in a bid to get higher returns  than those 
being delivered via their existing  investments.
I also note that neither  MDAM nor Mr and Mrs M have commented on or questioned this aspect of the 
investigators proposed compensation. I therefore think compensation should be based on what  return  
the 0.8% reduction in yield figure might have delivered using the actual returns from this investment.
This is because, in my view,  Mr and Mrs M were wrongly  advised  to pay this higher fee and should  be 
put back  in the position  they might now be if this money had been invested.
Therefore, MDAM must  refund the other half of the upfront fee and add 8% simple interest per annum 
to this figure from the date it was paid to the date of settlement  of this complaint. It should also 
assume the 0.8% of their money spent on higher ongoing charges had instead been invested and 
delivered the same return as the investment itself. It should then add 8% simple  interest to this sum 
from the date of surrender of the investment to the date of settlement of this complaint (if indeed they 
have surrendered it).
Finally, I think  it is important to reiterate that Mr and Mrs M said they were  happy with their existing 
investment, had not sought new advice or approached  MDAM;  instead their previous  advisor obtained 
their details from her previous employer, approached  them  unsolicited and offered them a cash 
inducement to make  this switch. I have no reason to doubt their evidence about any of these points. 
The evidence  suggests this advisor breached UK data protection legislation, and possibly  other 
regulations, as well as offering a covert inducement  to make this investment switch,  contrary to any 
Ref: DRN00451827acceptable business practice  if not FCA rules.  While I note MDAMs comments about  having  spoken 
to this advisor, in my view its response appears to have been  thoroughly inadequate, failing to 
acknowledge the seriousness of these issues.
From the evidence  supplied, I am also satisfied that the advisors conduct caused Mr and Mrs M very 
considerable trouble and upset,  as they outlined in their recent submission. I therefore intend to 
instruct MDAM to pay an additional sum of £500 in lieu of this.
Mr and Mrs M are still entitled, should they choose,  to refer the issue of the alleged breach of data 
protection to the Information Commissioners Office for separate  consideration of this specific issue.  
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct MacArthur Denton Asset  Management Limited 
to pay compensation as outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0045182