K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. In 
summary, he explained that Mr L had said St Pauls Marketing Limited cold called him and 
advised him to move  his existing pension to a SIPP. Hed said he couldnt afford the risks 
associated with the investments.
On 18 March 2016 £77,154  was transferred from his personal pension  to the SIPP.  Of that 
sum £76,344 was transferred to a discretionary fund manager to be invested in Just Loan 
debentures.
Mr L complained to Alexander David Securities in October 2018 but didnt receive  an
acknowledgement or response to the complaint and so he referred the matter  to us. 
The investigator said that in his testimony  Mr L had said St Pauls Marketing Limited  had 
advised him, and the SIPP provider had confirmed St Pauls Marketing introduced Mr L to 
them; it said St Pauls Marketing was also the promoter for the Just Loans  debentures. 
The investigator said St Pauls Marketing Limited hadnt disputed this position and it was 
clearly involved with the transaction. He said there was no evidence  to show Mr L had 
previously self-invested and the nature  of the underlying investment  wasnt the type of 
scheme which he would expect most members of the public to be aware of. 
The investigator said moving from a personal  pension plan administered by a well-known 
assurance firm to a SIPP with a niche investment was a substantial change in Mr Ls 
investment strategy. He thought, on the balance of probability, Mr L wouldve been  made  
aware of the investment through a recommendation given  by St Pauls Marketing Limited.
He said at the very least a direct offer of a non-readily realisable security  was made. So St 
Pauls Marketing wouldve  needed to assess the appropriateness of the investment  by 
gathering information about Mr Ls circumstances, knowledge and investment experience.  
Those requirements were  set out by the regulators handbook in Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) 10.2.1.
The investigator explained St Pauls  Marketing was also obliged  to act in Mr Ls best 
interests. He said looking  at the investment,  which was the reason  for the pension  being 
switched, it was in a firm which specialised in commercial lending.  He said the investment 
literature explained  it was only suitable  for investors capable of evaluating the risks and
merits of such investment and who have  sufficient resources to bear any loss which may 
result from the investment . 
It went onto explain that Just Loans had a limited history in the marketplace and parts of its 
business strategy were  not proven. It explained there were other risks associated  with it 
being listed on the Emerging Companies  Market  of the Cyprus Stock Exchange  (ECM)  
which was based  outside of the United Kingdom  and that it operated on a matched bargain 
basis  there  was no guarantee that there  would be a purchaser if an investor wanted to sell. 
Ref: DRN04564202The investigator thought that the Just Loans  investment was high risk, had limited liquidity, 
was listed on a smaller unregulated market and had a limited track record.  He said investing  
most of a pension in such a scheme  would  increase  the investment risk through over 
concentration in a single  plan, as opposed  to diversifying across several holdings and asset 
classes.
The investigator concluded that St Pauls Marketing Limited had made  a recommendation to 
Mr L, and it should  have been  clear  that the intended investment was unsuitable for Mr Ls 
circumstances. He thought Mr L ought to have been  advised to retain his existing plan.
He also thought if the required  appropriateness  assessment had been completed it would 
have been identified that Mr L couldnt  afford  to invest his entire pension  plan in such  a high 
risk, illiquid and niche  investment. He said the pension switch  wasnt in Mr Ls best interests 
and shouldnt have  proceeded. And there was no evidence to suggest that Mr L wouldve 
insisted to proceed against suitable advice to retain his current pension. The investigator 
concluded that that Mr Ls complaint  should  be upheld.  
The investigator sent his assessment to Alexander  David. However it didnt provide a 
response. The investigator subsequently  wrote  to both parties on 9 March 2020 explaining 
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make  a final 
decision. No further evidence or arguments  have been provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and argument to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Mr Ls original complaint.  Neither did it co-operate with
our investigation. Theres  only very limited  evidence available to establish what happened at
the time of the transaction.
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available including  Mr Ls recollection  of events.
Alexander David hasnt  disputed what  Mr L said in his complaint to it, or what  the 
investigator said in his assessment.
Im also mindful that this is one of a number  of complaints we have received and which I
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited;  all of a similar nature, involving seemingly
similar circumstances and the same  investments.
Clearly I need to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided  in each
particular case.  But Ive noted that what Mr L has said about St Pauls role is consistent with
what other complainants have described. So I think what he has said is plausible. And taking
everything into account, I have found it credible.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was
involved from the outset.  Following its input Mr L subsequently transferred his pension to the
SIPP and invested  in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Mr Ls
background and experience to want to transfer  an existing pension in order  to invest  in this
type of investment without prompting.  I think it was unlikely to have happened  without the
involvement of St Pauls. Im satisfied  that it initiated the transfer and investment in the
debenture. It was aware of where the investment was going  to be made and facilitated it.
Ref: DRN04564203Mr L has said St Pauls Marketing advised him to switch his existing pensions  to the SIPP.
The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the balance  of the limited
evidence that is available, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls did advise Mr L to
transfer and invest  in the debentures. And given the significant risks presented  by the
investment I dont think it was suitable for Mr L in his circumstances.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr L I think  the evidence  shows  it
was involved in arranging  the transaction. It was the promoter for the debenture, but Im
satisfied, on the limited evidence available, that it went beyond just promoting  it and was
involved in arranging the investment.
The debentures were  a non-readily  realisable security. COBS  10 required St Pauls  
Marketing to assess Mr Ls knowledge  and experience in the investment field relevant to the 
specific type of product  or service  offered  or demand so that it could assess  whether the 
debentures were  appropriate for Mr L.
The investigator said Mr L had no significant investment knowledge or experience of making
investments of this nature  and Alexander  David hasnt  disputed this. And Ive seen no
evidence of Mr L having a history  of making this type of investment.
The debenture presented significant  risks and was speculative. In my view it wasnt
appropriate for Mr L given  his background, knowledge and experience and this should have
been clear to St Pauls  Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr L. So I dont think the firm acted in Mr Ls 
interests. Im satisfied that if St Pauls hadnt advised  Mr L to transfer and invest  in the 
debentures or if it had told him they werent suitable  or appropriate  for him, he wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls  failures  caused Mr L to transfer and invest in a
product that he would otherwise not have invested into. And Im satisfied its failures
caused the losses that Mr L has claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr L as set
out below. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr L as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I dont think  
Mr L would  have transferred if he had been  given suitable advice. 
what should Alexander  David  do?
To compensate Mr L fairly Alexander David should:
Ref: DRN04564204Compare the performance of Mr Ls investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, Alexander David  Securities  Ltd should pay into Mr Ls pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Alexander David 
Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ls pension plan 
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected  marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
I think Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would have been  able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  Alexander David should:
Pay Mr L £300 for the upset caused by arranging an unsuitable high risk investment 
for his pension.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple  format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr L how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr L a 
tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN04564205investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)    to
(end date) additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists The original 
personal 
pension had 
it not been 
transferredDate of 
transferDate of 
decision 8% simple a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made  within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Ls
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date. 
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should take
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension
provider / administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation  and the
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the investment its value should  be
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr L provides an undertaking to pay
it any amount he may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must  allow
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt  from the pension plan.
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the value  of the original personal  pension would have been worth had it 
remained where it was and not been transferred.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in.
Ref: DRN04564206Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from 
that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I dont think Mr L would  have transferred with suitable advice. His existing pension was 
invested broadly  in line with his appetite for risk and suitable for his circumstances. So I think 
compensation should be calculated by reference to the position he would have  been  in had 
he remained  with his existing scheme.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0456420