K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc stopped accepting repayments of her 
credit card bills despite her using the same payment details as previously. Due to this it 
didnt receive payments  from her for May and June 2018 and it reduced  her card limit.
To settle  matters Ms S would like her credit limit reinstating to its previous limit.
background 
NatWest reduced Ms Ss credit limit from £7,000 to £2,175 after it failed to receive credit 
card repayments from her for May and June 2018.
NatWest said the reason  the payments didnt reach her account  is because shed used as a 
payment reference  details  from an expired  credit  card. Ms S says this is unfair because  she 
always makes  her credit card repayments on time and shed made  payments using her 
expired credit card details  in the same  way for seven  months  and those payments had been 
accepted by NatWest.
She says she should have been advised  sooner that she needed  to update  her payment 
details and shed  like her credit limit reinstating  to £7,000.
Our adjudicator concluded that NatWest  hadnt acted fairly on some parts  of Ms Ss 
complaint. She could  see Ms S had made  repayments by the date required but the monies  
were returned because shed used an incorrect card number for the payment details.
The adjudicator could see NatWest had previously  accepted several payments from Ms S 
when shed used  her expired credit card number  as a reference.  But on balance she said it 
was Ms Ss responsibility to ensure she made payments using the correct details. The 
adjudicator noted that NatWest had sent a letter to Ms S - when her new replacement card was 
issued  to explain that the old card number was no longer in use.
The adjudicator said she had no grounds to tell the bank to reinstate the previous credit  limit 
of £7,000 because the terms and conditions allowed NatWest  to make  a commercial 
decision to reduce her credit limit.
But the adjudicator thought Ms S should be compensated £100  for receiving incorrect  
information and for not being  told sooner about the missed payments.
Ms S doesnt agree entirely with the adjudicators  view so shes  asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In summary  she says her credit limit should be reinstated  because  the reason she 
failed to make her payments wasnt because she was in financial difficulties but because 
NatWest didnt continue  to accept payments  using  her expired credit card details - as it 
had previously done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms S but I agree  
with the conclusion reached by the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Based on the information Ive seen I can see Ms S didnt intentionally miss her repayments. 
And I can understand her frustration that NatWest previously accepted payments into her 
Ref: DRN05388492account for several  months when  shed used her expired credit card details  as a payment 
reference  and then stopped allowing the payments. So I think matters could have been 
resolved if NatWest had contacted her sooner.
But on balance, I agree it was Ms Ss responsibility to make  sure she was using the correct 
details to ensure  payments were made  correctly and to check  her current account.  If this had 
been done shed have  realised that the credit card payments  she thought shed  made had 
been returned.
Ive seen that NatWest  sent Ms S a letter when it sent her new credit  card.  The letter  
explains that the old card number  is no longer in use. And it also advises that if payments 
are made to her credit card account  by her bank  then her bank should  be advised of the new 
card details. So I cant say NatWest acted unfairly  as it made clear it was her responsibility 
to update her card payment  details. And I can see that NatWest waived the two late payment 
fees when it didnt receive payment  for May and June 2018  so I think  it acted  fairly.
Ms S says her credit card limit was reduced on the grounds that she was having difficulty  
making payments.  But she says that wasnt the case. Instead the reason for her missed  
payments was because  shed  continued  to pay her credit card bill using  the credit  card 
reference details  shed previously used and which NatWest  had previously accepted. And 
she wasnt told these would no longer be accepted.
I appreciate Ms Ss point of view and Im sympathetic to the position she finds herself in. But 
I think NatWest  acted  fairly because the terms and conditions of the account  allow  NatWest  
to reduce the credit limit where there is a change in how you operate the account or your 
financial circumstances giving us reasonable grounds to believe you have difficulty  in 
meeting your commitments .
I realise Ms S didnt intentionally  miss her repayments, but even  so her repayments for May 
and June werent made so I cant say NatWest was wrong to reduce her credit limit when it 
thought she was having difficulty  making her payments.  And as Ive already explained above 
in my opinion it was Ms Ss responsibility to manage her account. And Im satisfied that 
when she was sent her new credit  card it was explained that if payments were made to the 
account from a bank or building society, those  providers  should be notified  of the new card 
details.
Ms S would  like her credit  limit reinstating to its previous amount. NatWest  considered  this 
but said its unable  to do so because Ms S has a non-UK address. And its difficult for it to 
check the credit history for customers who live overseas.  I cant say this is unreasonable and 
the policy is stated  to apply to all customers who live overseas and isnt targeted  only at 
those customers who live in the same country as Ms S. So I cant say NatWest has acted 
unfairly.
Im of the opinion that the compensatory award of £100 recommended  by the adjudicator is 
fair in the circumstances. It reflects the distress and inconvenience to Ms S when she was 
given incorrect information  by NatWest when she raised concerns about her payments. And 
it also reflects that NatWest should  have advised  her sooner that she was using an expired 
card when she tried to make repayments.
Ref: DRN05388493my final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint in part and I require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay £100  to Ms S for her distress  and inconvenience  as a result of 
the poor service  she received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0538849