K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) refused to let him 
reject a faulty car.
Background
In June 2017 Mr C acquired a second hand  car funded by a hire purchase agreement. In 
December 2018  he was stopped by the police  who told him the window tint was illegal. He 
took the car back  to the dealer and it removed the tint. He also said paint was peeling off the 
bumper and the dealer resprayed it free of charge.
Mr C complained to BMWFS and it upheld the complaint in part. It said that while the car had 
been sold in an illegal  condition  it had been repaired and was now legal. It offered him £150 
for the inconvenience  he had suffered. Mr C brought his complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He explained  that our general approach is to investigate whether a business  has made an 
error - or acted unreasonably and if it has, we consider what  has to be done to put things  
right. He thought the offer of £150  and the fact that the windows had been fixed was a fair 
and reasonable resolution to the complaint.  
Mr C didnt agree and said BMWFS had filed to supply a legal car and so hadnt complied 
with The Consumer Rights  Act 2015. He said he had been driving illegally for 18 months ad 
had risked being prosecuted.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Ref: DRN02557472It is clear Mr Cs car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality, not that the window tints appear to have 
caused him any issue for the first 18 months  of use. Given that, the question  which  follows 
is what is a suitable  remedy.  The aim of this service is to ensure consumers are put back  in 
the positon they would have been had the error not occurred.
The dealer  fixed  the windows immediately  Mr C took the car back  and so the car was made 
legal. If Mr C had discovered  the problem earlier I am sure the dealer would have done the 
same, but as he didnt it couldnt  act before  it did. It also carried  out a respray of the bumper 
without charge even  though that wasnt covered  under the warranty.
I know Mr C has raised  a number of hypothetical issues,  but I am concerned with what  
happened and not what might have  happened. He wasnt prosecuted and he didnt have any 
issues with his insurance company. He was inconvenienced in being  stopped  by the police 
and in having to take the car back to be fixed.  For that I agree that a payment of £150 is fair 
and reasonable.  In conclusion, I can see no basis for him being allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited should pay £150. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0255747