K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains about a number of problems she had after opening an Ulster Bank Ltd 
account.
background
Ms D opened the account in September 2018  and received the debit card but not the PIN. 
She says she made about five visits to the branch and received the PIN on 28 September 
2018. Ms D says she then received three further  PINs and in October  2018  her card was 
cancelled. She says there were further  problems and later received a fifth PIN which Ulster 
Bank had no record of. Ms D believes her account  security couldve been compromised and 
she has suffered mental torture as a result  of whats happened.
Ulster Bank has accepted it sent too many PINs and that Miss D didnt receive the level of 
service she shouldve. Its issued two letters to her and apologised for its failings and paid a 
total of £100 compensation. Ulster Bank says its not responsible for the delivery of the mail.
Ms D brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator agreed Ulster  Bank  had made a 
number of mistakes. But he thought overall Ulster  Bank had apologised and paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. He also thought that Ms D had access  to her money  at 
this time and Ulster Bank  wasnt responsible for the delivery of the mail.
Ms D doesnt accept that view and says she didnt receive Ulster Banks second letter and it 
shouldve made  certain  she did. She also says she missed lectures to attend  the branch and 
says Ulster  Bank may have drafted the second  letter after she brought  the complaint to us. 
Ms D says Ulster  Bank hasnt taken into account  her losses  or addressed  the issue of the 
fifth PIN.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator.  I realise  Ms D will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no doubt here that Ulster  Bank made  a number  of mistakes that are well known to 
the parties. So I dont  need to repeat them again.  But I accept that Ms D was caused 
inconvenience in attending a branch on a number  of occasions and overall in trying  to sort 
matters out. I also accept that Ms D was student  far from home. But Im satisfied that Ulster  
Bank has apologised for its mistakes  in the two letters it sent Ms D. And Im also satisfied its 
paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of total compensation of £100. I think  that 
amount fairly reflects the level of its mistakes and the level of inconvenience  and distress  Ms 
D was caused.
I appreciate that Ulster Bank hasnt explained why Ms D received a fifth PIN. I have no doubt  
that it wouldve  concluded that was also a mistake. But I dont think that had a significant 
affect on Ms D or justifies further compensation.
I also make  clear to Ms D that I dont think Ulster Bank is responsible for the delivery of mail 
and so I cant fairly hold it responsible for the delay in any letters being received or letters not 
received. I appreciate Ms Ds security concerns but Im satisfied there wasnt  any such 
breach here or that her account  was compromised.  And as the adjudicator  has explained  we 
are not the regulator of banks and building societies and so cant  fairly  interfere in a 
Ref: DRN09232722businesses commercial judgement on how it deals with such  matters  as the sending of mail 
to customers.
Ive not seen any evidence that Ulster  Bank wrote the second final response  letter  after Ms D 
brought her complaint  to us. I can see its dated 9 November 2018 and I think  it confirms the 
outcome of the conversation between  Ms D and Ulster Bank the previous  day in which it 
agreed to pay a further £70 compensation. I can see that Ms D now has a copy of that letter.
Overall Im satisfied that Ulster Bank has dealt with this complaint fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that Ulster  Bank Ltd has dealt with this complaint fairly and I dont require 
it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019..
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0923272