K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) rejected her claim under her travel  
insurance policy when  she cancelled her holiday after a family member was admitted to 
hospital.
background
Mrs B had a travel  insurance  policy underwritten by UKI. She booked a trip in March  2017 to 
travel in February 2018. A few days before  she was due to leave on her trip, Mrs Bs mother  
was admitted to hospital. The reason given for her hospitalisation was suspected pulmonary 
embolism/pulmonary oedema. Mrs B cancelled her trip. Very sadly  Mrs Bs mother  died a 
few days later. The cause of death  was stated  to be Decompensate congestive  cardiac 
failure.
 
Mrs B made a claim against UKI for the cost of her trip. UKI rejected her claim and referred 
to the terms of her insurance policy. It told this service that We have repudiated this claim 
as [Mrs Bs] mother, a close relative,  had received treatment for her heart condition in the 12 
months prior to [Mrs Bs] holiday being  booked, on 31 March 2017.  This is an exclusion on 
this policy.  
Ive looked at the terms of Mrs Bs policy. It says (my emphasis added):  
We will cover you for your:
-unused deposits:
- accommodation and travel costs  (including  car hire, excursions and activities) that you 
have paid or legally have  to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your trip for one of the 
following reasons:
 one of the following people dies, is seriously injured  or is seriously ill:
- any insured  person:
- your travelling companion:
- a close relative :
- a close business associate: or
- anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with.
It then goes on to say what isnt covered by the policy as follows:
We will not cover:
 the excess  amount. This is £75 for every claim for each insured person,  which  is reduced 
to £10 for each insured person for claims solely for lost deposits. No excess  will be charged 
for any dependent child travelling with the account holder or their partner:
 any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere:
 any claim  that is a result of a close  relative, close business associate or travelling 
companion:
- having a medical condition  that has resulted in inpatient  treatment  or being put on a       
waiting list for hospital treatment:
- being  diagnosed with cancer  or
- being  given a terminal  prognosis
in the 12 months prior to you becoming  an insured person,  or the date when you 
booked your trip, whichever is later.
Ref: DRN04323642The Medical Certificate that UKI required Mrs Bs mothers GP to complete, asks whether, in 
the 12 months prior to Mrs B taking  out her insurance or the trip being booked,  her mother  
had a medical condition that resulted in inpatient treatment or being put on a waiting list for 
hospital treatment.  
The GPs response was that Mrs Bs mother had had hospital admissions in that period, and 
had been under various specialists, including a cardiologist. The GP also confirmed that she 
had never  previously been  treated  for pulmonary embolism/pulmonary oedema.
Our investigators view was that UKI should pay Mrs Bs claim as there  was insufficient 
medical evidence  to support UKIs  position that there  was a connection between the 
condition for which Mrs Bs mother was admitted to hospital,  and the cardiac arrest that was 
the cause of her death.
UKI didnt  agree with this assessment, so the complaints been passed to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint  and 
Ill explain  why.
Mrs Bs policy does  cover cancellation  if a close relative is taken seriously ill. But if that 
illness arises from a condition that resulted in inpatient treatment or being  put on a hospital 
waiting list in the 12 months preceding  a trip, any such  claim is excluded.
Mrs Bs mother did receive inpatient treatment in the 12 months before Mrs Bs trip. Im not 
satisfied, however, that the illness that caused her hospitalisation  shortly  before Mrs B was 
due to leave on her trip was an illness for which she had received inpatient treatment.
UKI maintains that there is a connection between pulmonary embolism/pulmonary oedema 
and the cardiac  failure that was the cause of her mothers death, and Mrs Bs mother had 
been hospitalised for cardiac issues within the previous 12 months. I think  that it is for UKI to 
provide medical  evidence  of such a close connection if it is to succeed in its argument that 
the cause of Mrs Bs mothers  hospitalisation was unquestionably and exclusively connected 
with her cardiac problems. It hasnt  provided  any such  evidence.
So my opinion is that the condition that caused  Mrs Bs mothers  hospitalisation was 
pulmonary embolism/pulmonary oedema, and there is no evidence  that she had been 
treated for this in hospital in the 12 months  preceding Mrs Bs trip. It was this condition, 
which may not have  been connected  to her cardiac issues,  which caused Mrs B to cancel 
her trip. I dont consider that the exclusion in Mrs Bs policy applies in this case.
Im therefore  going to ask UKI to settle  Mrs Bs claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Bs claim.
Ref: DRN04323643I require U K Insurance Limited to settle  Mrs Bs claim for the cancellation of her trip subject 
to any policy  limits and to any excess.
I also require U K Insurance Limited to pay interest  on the sum payable at the simple  rate of 
8% a year from the date Mrs B made her claim to the date payment is made to her.
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much  its taken off. It should also give 
her a certificate showing this if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0432364