K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Equiniti Financial Services  Limited. He is unhappy  about  a 
transfer of funds from a stakeholder pension he held into an account with Equiniti.  This 
transfer has potentially  exposed him to unauthorised  payment charges by HMRC.
background
In 2016 Mr H attempted to transfer funds  he held in a stakeholder  pension  with another  
provider into a SIPP account with Equiniti. He wanted to gain more control over his 
investments.
The funds were transferred but placed into a share  dealing account which was outside any 
pension wrapper. This potentially means  that this was an unauthorised payment from the 
pension account  and it may be liable to additional  tax charges.
In addition, the funds were  tied up and Mr H was unable to invest  as he wished and so he 
lost the opportunity of any investment growth.
Equiniti initially  upheld Mr Hs complaint  and offered a payment for his inconvenience. 
However, it didnt agree  to indemnify him for the potential  charge from HMRC. Essentially, 
this was because  it felt that the chance of avoiding HMRC treating the transfer  as an 
unauthorised payment  were worsened by Mr Hs decision to transfer the funds to another 
provider.
The complaint was referred  to this service and it was considered by an adjudicator.  He 
decided that the complaint should be held.  The adjudicator concluded, in summary:
The initial cause of the problems arose in a telephone call between Mr H and an 
agent of Equiniti in 2016. The agent told Mr H to download and complete a transfer 
form and not a SIPP form. The transfer form was for funds to be received from other 
sources and not from pensions. 
This mistake on the agents part set in train the unfortunate course of events. But, 
apart from this mistake, Equinitis systems should not have allowed the transfer to 
take place as it did with pension funds  being  transferred to a non-pension fund.
And once the transfer had taken place,  Equiniti  should have realised earlier  that 
funds from a pension  were now held outside  of a pension.
HMRC require that only pensions can hold pensions monies. There are restrictions  
as to how and when people can take money  from them.
Apart from the mistake made by the agent, which  Mr H followed, Equinitis systems
      should not have allowed this to happen.  Although this was accidental, it suggested 
that the systems  were open to deliberate manipulation.
The correspondence from the stakeholder pension  fund holder  made  it clear  that 
these were pension  funds. Numerous descriptors  were  used which  were only 
associated with pension funds.
There was a receiving  scheme declaration and transfer out warranty.  In the warranty  
Equiniti undertook that the receiving scheme  was a pension scheme. But it wasnt.
Once Equiniti  received the transferred funds, Mr H corresponded with them  clearly  
making reference to his wish to hold funds in a SIPP.
Equiniti replied saying, Please  be advised  that upon  viewing  your account I can 
confirm that you have not got a SIPP account opened with us. and explaining how to 
open a SIPP. Equiniti  should have realised at this stage what had happened.
Ref: DRN08789832Mr H thought that Equiniti were not being  helpful  and, in June 2017, he moved  his 
funds away to a SIPP with another SIPP provider.
HMRC allow for errors like these to be corrected and an unauthorised payment 
charge to be avoided if the correction is made within a reasonable time. But by the 
time Mr H transferred away it was probably already too late to avoid a penalty. 
The adjudicator said that Equiniti should agree to indemnify Mr H against any tax charges 
that he might  incur because of the problem. These should include any unauthorised payment 
charge for taking  money  out of a pension  and the charge  that he will incur  for putting the 
funds back into a SIPP with the new provider when  he exceeded the annual  allowance.
The adjudicator also said that Equiniti should  compensate Mr H for the loss of growth that he 
suffered, and pay him £400 for the trouble and upset  he has suffered as a consequence  of 
the mistakes.
Mr H accepted the view but Equiniti didnt, it agreed to pay for loss of growth and for the 
trouble and upset.  However, it didnt agree the indemnity  saying that it was still liaising with 
HMRC and there may not be any unauthorised payment charge and if there  was it didnt  
know how much  it would be.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator. Ive set out the adjudicators reasoning above, I agree with it 
and there  is very little that I can add.
This transfer  should not have taken  place as it did. Regardless of any mistake Mr H may or 
may not have made, Equiniti should not have allowed pension monies to be transferred into 
a non-pension fund as it did. It ought  to have  been clear to Equiniti that the funds being 
transferred were pension  funds. This was clearly  apparent from the correspondence from the 
transferring business.  And it had completed a warranty stating that the funds were  to be 
transferred to a pension  fund.
Mr H is a lay person. He is not an expert  in these matters and would have no reason to know 
that he had been directed to the incorrect transfer forms. I dont think  he could have  been  
expected to know that something had gone  wrong  when, after the transfer, he was told that 
there was no SIPP  account.  But I think Equiniti should have realised this and taken 
immediate steps  to remedy the problem.
Had Equiniti acted more  quickly,  the chance  of avoiding an unauthorised payment charge 
would no doubt  have been increased, although it cant  be said with any certainty that a 
charge would have been  avoided altogether. I agree that Mr H moving  the funds to another 
provider will probably have made avoiding a charge less likely, but I dont think he was 
acting unreasonably when he did so. He was clearly frustrated by a situation that Equiniti 
could have taken  active control of much sooner than it did.
So Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable that Equiniti should provide Mr H with an 
indemnity against  charges he may face from HMRC  for the unauthorised payment out of his 
pension and for any charge he may face for his contribution exceeding  his annual allowance.  
Ref: DRN08789833I appreciate that these  charges may not arise, and it may not be possible to quantify  them 
precisely now, but Mr H is entitled to the indemnity in my view.
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Equiniti must indemnify Mr H from the possible tax 
charges as set out above. It must also pay him £400  for trouble and upset.
Equiniti must also compensate him for his investment loss as set out below.
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If there  is a loss, Equiniti should pay this to Mr H's. It shouldnt be paid into his 
pension as he has exceeded his annual allowance. The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of any available tax relief. It can be reduced by 15 per cent to reflect that 
there would  be tax payable at retirement on 75 per cent of the fund and assuming Mr 
H would  be a basic rate tax payer.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
receipt by 
Equinitidate of 
settlementn/a
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because Mr H wanted capital growth and was 
willing to accept some  investment risk. The FTSE UK Private  Investors Income total return  
index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is 
made up of a range of indices with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds.  It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  
risk to get a higher return. 
Ref: DRN08789834my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Equiniti Financial Services  Limited must provide 
the indemnities Ive outlined  and should pay the amount calculated  as set out above along  
with £400 for trouble and upset.
Equiniti Financial Services Limited should  provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 December  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0878983