K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay his claim under his 
pet policy for his dog.
background
Mr S has a standard  policy  with Alliance. This provides  cover  for an illness or injury for 12 
months only, or up to a limit of £3,000 whichever comes first. The 12-month time limit starts 
on the date his dog first receives treatment for an illness or injury  and ends when the time 
limit of 12 months has been reached, or when  the limit of £3,000  has been reached.  
Mr S dog suffered  a cruciate ligament rupture in his right leg in August 2018, his claim was 
for £3,700  and Alliance paid up to the limit of £3,000.
Sadly Mr S dog then suffered a similar problem with his left leg in October 2018. Mr S made 
a further claim for £3,551.20. Alliance said it couldnt pay that, because  Mr S had reached  
his limit for cruciate ligament damage.
Mr S didnt agree, so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator agreed with him and 
recommended his complaint should  be upheld. Alliance didnt agree, so Mr S complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 February  and I said the following:
Essentially the issue  is whether Mr S dog had a cruciate ligament disease, meaning 
one condition which affected both her legs namely  the cruciate ligament in each, or 
two entirely separate instances which are wholly unconnected  to each other. 
Allianz believes Mr S dog has cruciate  ligament  disease and obviously Mr S does 
not. 
The policy terms which Allianz  relied on is as follows under  Section 1 Veterinary 
Fees, Special Conditions:
9. After we had paid the cost of treatment for 12 months or the maximum 
benefit for an injury  or illness we will not pay the cost of any more  
treatment for:
a)The same  injury  or illness,
b)An injury or illness  with the same  diagnosis as the injury or 
illness we have  paid the limit for,
c)An injury or illness  that is caused by, relates to, or results  from an 
injury or illness that we have paid the limit for.
No matter where the injury or illness is noticed  or happens in or on your 
pets body.
In the definitions section - injury/injured  means  physical damage or trauma caused 
immediately by an accident. Not a physical  injury that happens over a period of time. 
Ref: DRN02225832And - illness means any change(s) to a normal healthy state, sickness or disease  
and abnormalities,  including defects and abnormalities your pet was born with or 
were passed  on by its parents.
Mr S referral  vet who I shall call Dr D and Allianz internal vet who I shall call Dr H 
had an email conversation about  this issue. Im persuaded by its content. Dr H said 
to Dr D that Allianz  doesnt relate right and left legs due to one rupture causing the 
other, instead it relates it as a disease  leading to cruciate rupture in both legs.  That is 
consequently then classed as one condition under the policy. She went on to explain 
a disease affecting multiple  anatomical locations is still one disease and has one 
maximum benefit available. She mentioned that hip dysplasia for example,  doesnt  
differentiate between the right and left hip, its simply classed as one disease.
She said she believed  Mr S dog had cruciate  ligament disease for several reasons:
Her breed type being more prone to it 
Her age being  seven
The fact both happened within two months  of each other
The x-ray results which Dr H said showed disease namely periarticular 
osteophytosis showing up only two weeks  after Mr S dog first became lame 
in July 2018. Because these things  would not show up for quite some time 
after the disease process has started,  this indicated  to Dr H that there was 
little trauma before the right cruciate  ligament  ruptured, which in turn indicates 
a cruciate ligament  disease process. 
Dr D said Dr H was spot on on most  of her considerations and he mostly  agreed 
with her. He acknowledged both of them were talking about what  happened  to the 
majority of dogs. He agreed the condition was called cruciate ligament rupture and 
on the basis of the policy  wording (of which he was previously unaware), it would 
seem the maximum condition limit had been  reached. 
I understand Mr S said his dog was playing roughly with a dog in July before  her first 
ligament ruptured.  But Im persuaded by Allianz thoughts  that it would be a far more 
traumatic event to rupture  a cruciate  ligament  than just rough play. The fact it 
happened during play, even rough play indicates  the likelihood  of cruciate ligament 
disease being the more  likely cause.  This is in my view clearly  shown  on the x-rays 
taken in August  given  the periarticular osteophytosis  showing up so soon.  Further the 
examination of Mr S dog then also noted  some  instability  in her left stifle. 
Therefore I consider  on the balance of probability,  it is more  likely that Allianz  were  
correct and the cause of both cruciate ligament ruptures in Mr S dog was cruciate 
ligament disease.  
This is turn means its one condition and therefore Allianz applied the benefit of the 
policy correctly to Mr S claims.
Neither party made any further comments following  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02225833On the basis neither  party provided  any comments on my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change  my opinion. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0222583