K821x#15complaint
Miss Hs complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies she was sold by 
HFC Bank Limited (HFC), associated with some loans and also an issue  she has about 
repaying one of the loans.
background
Miss H took out three loans with HFC in the late 1980s early 1990s.  With each  loan she took 
out a PPI policy. 
The evidence from HFC indicates that in 2012  Miss H complained about two of her PPI 
policies and HFC upheld her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and it offered her 
compensation. But Miss H never returned  the payment instruction forms so the 
compensation was never paid.
In 2018 Miss H again complained about  the PPI sold to her with three loans. For the two 
policies on which HFC had made  offers in 2012,  it reaffirmed it was willing  to offer 
compensation to settle the complaints as this was never paid in 2012.
HFC also considered separately Miss Hs complaint about a third loan with PPI taken out in 
1989, loan reference ending 7521. Again, HFC upheld the complaint that the PPI with this 
third loan was mis-sold  and offered compensation. 
Miss H wasnt  happy with the compensation offered  for the policy  with loan 7521.  But she 
also said that she had paid the loan settlement  amount twice. She wasnt  happy  with what  
HFC said and brought her complaint to this service.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2020. Both parties  have 
responded to that decision with a number of comments.  I have taken into account all 
responses when  reaching my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision Miss H complained  about  three  loans with PPI when 
she brought her complaint to this service. HFC agreed all the PPI policies were mis-sold and 
had offered compensation for all three policies. 
I would clarify that copies  of correspondence  sent to Miss H in 2012 about the two loans, 
7328 and 8023, with PPI attached to them has been  provided  by HFC. Whilst I note Miss H 
says she does not recall  complaining in 2012 or receiving any correspondence, the records 
from HFC do show that a complaint for these two loans with PPI was considered at that time 
and it was upheld  that the PPI was mis-sold. However, in 2019 HFC confirmed the 
compensation was not accepted and paid in 2012, so it recalculated and updated its offer for 
the two policies sold with these two loans. Miss H accepted the offers made  for these two 
policies, therefore  I am not considering these two PPI policies any further.
However, for the PPI with loan ending 7521 Miss H remained  unhappy with the 
compensation offered. She believed she had paid the settlement figure on this loan twice 
Ref: DRN01414372and wanted the full cost of the PPI refunding plus the double settlement for the loan and 
compensatory interest  on all of this.  
I would reassure Miss H that I have  looked  at all the evidence she has provided, and also 
the evidence provided by HFC, as provided by both parties initially and also in response  to 
my provisional decision. 
settlement of loan 7521
Miss H believes  that as HFC mis-spelt her surname  in some correspondence and her date of 
birth was incorrectly entered  on the loan application  form, there  were  different accounts set 
up in different names on HFCs records and payments  may have been made to the wrong  
accounts, so she has overpaid for the loan on this account. She has again reiterated  this in 
her reply  to my provisional decision,  but I remain satisfied this is not the case.
Miss H has also expressed concern that HFC has not provided all its records  from 1995 to 
2002. Businesses are only legally  required  to keep records for six years. So HFC does not 
have all the actual  documents from the time. But they do have some correspondence and 
computer system records and it has provided copies of all the records  it holds for Miss Hs 
account. 
HFC provided search results it had undertaken on its systems  for the different spellings and 
date of birth that Miss H has identified, and no different account  numbers have been found. 
The records  show Miss H took out just the three loans  in 1989 and 1990. No other  loans, 
accounts or payments have been  identified from any of the searches against all the 
alternatives of her name  spelling and wrong  date of birth. So there  would appear to be no 
duplicate accounts  in different names for loan account 7251 or for any other accounts with 
alternative spellings  of Miss Hs name.
Although there was an error in the spelling of Miss Hs name  on HFCs system and in some  
correspondence, when  dealing with loans and financial products, it is the loan reference 
number that is the important  identification for an account. And from what  Ive seen,  although 
Miss Hs name may have been entered incorrectly at one time by HFC,  this hasnt affected 
the account that was being  dealt with and any payments processed to it. I have seen  nothing  
to show that HFC had two accounts and two debts showing for loan 7251, as Miss H has 
suggested.
Miss H took out loan 7251 in1989. This was loan credit facility where Miss H could  use the 
credit when she needed, PPI being charged  only when there  was a balance  owing and in 
effect the loan and PPI worked  a little like a credit card.  
It seems  Miss H had some financial problems and stopped making payments to the account 
in 1994 and the loan facility was closed with a balance still owed by Miss H. Miss H has 
indicated she believes HFC stopped claiming the account was closed  in 1994 after she had 
produced a letter dated 1995 from a third-party debt collection company that was chasing 
the account debt.  But that isnt the case. Miss H fell into arrears on the loan repayments in 
1994 and so the loan credit facility was closed, in effect closing the account for her use. The 
credit facility was closed, but there  was a debt still owing on the account that was referred  to 
a debt recovery company.  
HFC referred the amount  outstanding to the debt recovery company, to act as HFCs agent, 
after the account was closed for use and this debt company chased Miss H for payment. At 
Ref: DRN01414373this point HFC did not sell the debt to this debt recovery company, it used the services of this 
third-party company  to chase the debt on behalf  of HFC. In May 1995 the debt recovery  
company sent Miss H a letter indicating as she had failed  to respond to requests for payment 
it was looking at taking  legal proceedings against her.
Miss H says at this point  in 1995  she settled the debt. She has again indicated in response 
to my provisional decision that was the case. But I have seen no evidence that the 
outstanding amount was actually paid in 1995. As this debt recovery  company was acting on 
behalf of HFC, if a payment had been made some of it would have been passed  to HFC and 
show on its records as a payment against  the account. As I indicated in my provisional  
decision, in December 1995 the debt amount is still shown as outstanding. 
The letter from the debt recovery agent  dated May 1995, although it has the mis-spelling of 
Miss Hs name, does quote  the correct loan account number. This letter refers to various 
actions that may be taken  to recover the debt amount, one of which is obtaining  a charging 
order on Miss Hs property. I have seen nothing to show legal proceedings were taken in 
1995 but records held by HFC indicate there was a charge  was put on her property for £542  
and it seems likely this was a voluntary charge. Once the debt was secured in this way 
against the property, the debt management  company  returned  the file to HFC in May 1996.
Taking all these facts and the evidence I have seen into account,  I remain  of the opinion  that 
Miss H probably worked with the debt management  company following its letter  in May 1995 
and she possibly agreed to a charge being  made  against her property, meaning the debt 
was secured against her property and no further action chasing Miss H for the debt would 
have taken place.  
In response to my provisional decision Miss H has said she would never have agreed to a 
charging order on her property. However, the information Miss H has provided from her 
solicitor in October 2002 clearly shows a charge against the property in favour of HFC had 
been made as this was settled. For a legal  charge  of this sort to be made against a property 
it either is done with the agreement of the property owner or by direction of the court.  There  
is no evidence from either party that a court order was obtained, and there doesnt appear  to 
be any court  costs added  to the debt, indicting court action was taken. Although it is possible 
Miss H could have paid the court  costs  and this is what she paid at the time,  rather than the 
outstanding debt about. Whatever happened  there was a charge put on her property either 
with her consent or by direction of the court.
So although  Miss H recalls paying the debt recovery company the full amount of the debt in 
1995, I have seen no evidence of payment being  made for the outstanding debt amount and 
there is evidence of a charge against her property for the amount of £542. This all took place 
over 25 years ago and memories can fade.  Based  on the evidence I have seen, I think it 
most likely a charge  for the £542 was made against  Miss Hs property and the amount was 
not actually paid to the recovery agent  at that time.
It seems  this charge  for £542 against  Miss Hs property was then formally  removed  in 2003. 
The debt was repaid when Miss H re-mortgaged in 2002. By this date HFC had sold the debt 
to a third party, this was done in 2001. But as the charge against the property was in the 
name of HFC it took some  time for this to be formally resolved and removed in 2003.
So I dont  think Miss H paid the debt amount twice.  I think in 1995 an arrangement for the 
debt to be charged on her property  was made  and this stopped all action against her for 
active debt recovery at that time. This means she did not actually pay the full amount 
Ref: DRN01414374outstanding to the debt recovery  agents in 1995,  and I have seen no evidence that she did. 
The evidence I have  seen  shows  the debt of £542  was paid when she re-mortgaged  in late 
2002, and the charge was then removed in early 2003.
PPI compensation  with loan 7521
HFC offered  compensation of £190.04 to settle this mis-sale complaint. This was to refund 
the amount of the premium paid whilst  Miss H was making repayments, any interest paid on 
the premium as part of the repayments  and also to provide some  compensatory  interest for 
any time Miss H was out of pocket. 
I have asked HFC for information about  its calculations to show how it worked out the 
compensation due. 
The information provided to date states that Miss H made 49 monthly  payments  towards  the 
PPI cost which was in total £90.29  for the premiums  cost and £83.10 for the interest caused 
by the premiums. HFC has also indicated  that a fee of £15.00 was caused by the PPI and 
this is also included to be refunded. In addition, HFC has worked out compensatory interest  
of £1.65 before tax, giving the total of £190.04
From the information that was provided I indicated in my provisional decision that I didnt 
think the compensatory interest had been  calculated correctly taking into account all the 
facts of this case.  
The calculations provided show  HFC has calculated £1.65 as compensatory  interest  up to 
December 1995.  During the time this credit account was in use, there would have been 
some brief times it was in credit and so this £1.65 was most likely  to compensate  for those 
times. In December 1995 the account  was in debt and so no further compensatory  interest 
would have been due until Miss H was out of pocket  again for any of the costs of the PPI  
that being when the account would be in credit but for the PPI being included  in the account.
But as the account had closed in 1994  with a debt owing, no compensatory interest  had 
been calculated  on the basis Miss H wasnt out of pocket for the PPI costs as she hadnt  
repaid the full amount  due for the loan account balance,  some of which would have been for 
the PPI costs. It is only when an account  is in credit when all the PPI is removed from the 
balance that compensatory interest  is due.
Evidence has however  been provided  that Miss H did settle the full debt amount, when the 
charge on her property  for the amount  of the debt was repaid. This is indicated  as being in 
2002 when Miss H contacted HFC about  removing the charge on her property. HFC had by 
this time sold the debt to a third party  in 2001, but once  the debt was settled  in full by Miss 
H, that is when the charge on her property  was settled, she was out of pocket for the full 
costs of the PPI. 
As I have indicated above this debt was clearly  settled  in full when Miss H re-mortgaged in 
2002, the charge being removed in 2003. By this time HFC had no legal interest  in the debt,  
but it is responsible  for paying compensatory  interest on mis-sold  PPI from whenever Miss H 
had paid the full amount outstanding. Therefore, from October 2002 Miss H was out of 
pocket for the total costs of the PPI, which from the records and calculations provided  by 
HFC indicate  this was for an amount of £188.39.  
Ref: DRN01414375So, from October 2002, simple interest  should be calculated on this £188.39  to the date of 
final settlement. This would be in addition to the compensatory interest of £1.65 calculated 
as due when the account was active.
summary
In summary  I dont think Miss H paid the settlement amount of her debt twice. So Im not 
intending to tell HFC to refund an amount of £542 that Miss H claimed  was paid twice.
However, I dont think the compensation calculated  by HFC for the compensatory  interest  
was correct. HFC has not calculated compensatory interest for the time Miss H was out of 
pocket after she settled  the debt in full in October  2002  and evidence  has been  provided of 
this, both by Miss H and also by HFCs records. Therefore, I am directing HFC to recalculate 
the compensatory interest, taking  this into account.
I have considered all the points  Miss H made  both at the start of her complaint and also in 
response to my provisional  decision. I have tried in this decision to address the main points 
raised in response  to my provisional  decision, although most of the issues had already  been 
addressed in that decision. Miss H hasnt  provided any new evidence to support her 
arguments about making the payment twice, only her recollections  from 25 years ago.
I have also noted  she thinks  the offer letter sent for loan 7521  was sent separately to the 
offers for her other two loans because her name  was incorrectly  spelt in the letter for 7521. 
However, as HFC indicated to Miss H in its letter of 29 April 2019,  it had already considered  
the two other loans  in 2012  and upheld them. But as loan 7521 had now been raised, this 
was dealt with separately  to consider  if the PPI policy attached to this loan was also mis-
sold. The mis-spelling  of Mis Hs name is regrettable, but I cannot see this has affected in 
any way the compensation offered, and what is fair compensation, for the PPI mis-sold  with 
loan 7521.
I asked HFC in my provisional decision to provide evidence as to why it may consider 
compensatory interest  was not due from October 2002. It has not provided  any evidence to 
disagree with my findings.
I also asked if HFC was not contesting by findings  it should provide a calculation  of the 8% 
compensatory interest  on the PPI costs from 2002  to date. It has acknowledged this request 
but despite a reminder has not provided  the calculation requested.
Miss H paid a total of £188.39 for the PPI and since the debt was settled,  she has been out 
of pocket for this full amount.  I have had a calculation done and this indicates  that 8% simple 
interest on the PPI costs  of £188.39 would  be £277.99 before tax, including  the £1.65 for the 
time the account  was in credit when  active, calculated up to 31 January 2021. If payment is 
made after this date additional  compensatory  interest should  be calculated  to the date of 
final payment.
As I have seen no new evidence from either party that persuades me to change the findings 
of my provisional decision,  I am directing that HFC should refund the actual  costs  caused by 
the PPI of £188.39 plus compensatory interest before tax of £277.99,  making a total of 
£466.38 be paid to Miss H as compensation for the mis-sold PPI with loan 7521.
Ref: DRN01414376my decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and also as indicated in my provisional decision, I am not 
satisfied that the calculation  HFC Bank  Limited made for the compensatory interest on the 
amount paid for the mis-sold PPI is correct. Therefore, I am directing HFC Bank Limited  to 
pay total compensation before tax of £466.38 to Miss H, subject to any update  to the 
compensatory interest  if payment is made  after 31 January 2021, as I think  this is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. 
I am not upholding  that Miss H paid the settlement of her debt to HFC Bank Limited  twice,  so 
Im satisfied there is no duplicate payment to refund in addition  to the mis-sold PPI 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0141437