K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about how esure  Insurance Limited dealt with a claim made  on his motor  
insurance policy following  an accident  and that it cancelled  his policy.  He wants enough 
money to buy a like for like car and payment for his lost personal  possessions. 
background
Mr Is parked car was hit by another driver in 2017 but hes unhappy that the claim hasnt 
been settled. Mr I thinks esure should take the other  driver  or the cars  owner  to court.  Mr I is 
also unhappy with the settlement esure offered  him for the total loss of his car. And hes 
unhappy that esure decided to cancel his policy.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  esure 
had offered Mr I the market value of his car according to the policy  terms and conditions  and 
our approach. She thought esure  was entitled  to cancel Mr Is policy. It hadnt recorded this 
so it wouldnt affect Mr Is future cover. And she thought the 2017 claim was still ongoing to 
determine liability and recover outlay. She advised Mr I to contact esure with proof of 
purchase for items  hed said had been damaged  or lost in the accident.  
Mr I replied that he thought hed insured  his car for an agreed price. He thought esure should 
recover his losses from the owner of the other car. He said he couldnt  replace his car for the 
settlement offered by esure. He said esure  had cancelled his policy after it had already  
finished. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr I feels frustrated  and stressed by this experience.  Hes told us that 
his car was hit by an underage driver  whilst it was parked. He thinks  esure should  pursue the 
cars owner  for its losses. Hes very disappointed  by esures offer for the market value of his 
car. And he says that his premiums have increased  so much that he now cant  afford 
insurance. 
Our investigator thought esures  settlement  offer for Mr Is car was fair and reasonable. Ive 
reviewed how she came to this conclusion. This services approach to car valuations is that 
we dont provide  valuations  for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is 
reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Mr I said hed agreed a value for his car when he took out his policy. Some  insurers  offer 
agreed value policies, but this isnt the case  with Mr I. I can see that his policy  provides for 
the cars  market value  in the case of total loss. So I cant say that esure should pay Mr I the 
value he said his car was worth when he took out his policy.  
Ref: DRN09846582esure offered Mr I £6,377 less his £600 policy excess in settlement  of his claim for the total 
loss of his car. It said this was the average  offered by the trade  guides.  I can see that the 
investigator checked the motor-trade guides  we use for cars of the same make, model,  age, 
condition, extras and mileage as Mr Is at the date of its loss. These checks  found that 
esures offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the guides. So I cant say 
that this was unfair. 
Mr I said hed improved his car with careful  maintenance and also replaced the engine. But 
we dont think maintenance increases the value of a car. I can see that esures engineer  
considered whether the mileage of the replaced  engine would increase value. But he made 
the valuation on the cars  mileage as a better  guide. I cant say this was unfair  or 
unreasonable as maintenance doesnt generally  increase  a cars value.  
Mr I also said hed found cars like his advertised  for sale at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive  as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.  
So I agree with the investigator that esures  settlement  offer for the market value of Mr Is car 
at the time of its loss was correctly made according  to our approach and the policys  terms 
and conditions. I think its fair and reasonable. So I dont require esure to increase this. 
Mr I was unhappy that esure cancelled his policy. I think its for esure to decide  what risks its 
prepared to cover. I can see that it sent Mr I his renewal invitation in 2018.  But another  claim 
was made  after this. On review, it decided to cancel the policy.  I can see from its 
underwriting criteria that cover wouldnt be offered  if more than three  claims had been made 
in the policy  year. Due to the pending  renewal, it deferred the cancellation  for a week to give 
Mr I the chance to find alternative  cover.  
I can see that Mr I thinks the cancellation  was made after the policy  ended. But he hasnt 
taken into account  the weeks extension of cover esure gave him. esure  has told us that the 
cancellation wasnt recorded against him and so he neednt report it to future insurers. 
Mr I said that he cant  now afford insurance  due to the cost of policy premiums hes been  
quoted. But esure  isnt responsible for these quotes. So I cant consider that here. 
From what  I can see, the 2017 claim is still open whilst liability is being  determined. I know 
this is taking some time and I can understand Mr Is frustration.  But from what I can see this 
is a complex case and its not unusual for such cases to be drawn  out. The investigator has 
already advised  Mr I to contact esure  for an update on progress. 
I cant see that Mr I has complained to esure about the progress  with this claim or that its 
provided a response  on this. If hes unhappy with its update, he can complain to esure. If he 
remains unhappy with its response, he can bring his complaint to us.   
Mr I said hed lost valuable possessions  that had been left in the car. The investigator  has 
already advised  Mr I that he should  provide proof  of purchase for these so that esure can 
consider a claim made under  his policy. Without such  evidence,  I cant  say that its fair or 
reasonable for esure  to compensate Mr I for their loss. 
Ref: DRN09846583my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0984658