K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc wont refund disputed  cash withdrawals 
made from his account which he says he didnt make.
background
Mr N says that approximately £9,000  in transactions were made from his Natwest  current  
account between  March 2017  to July 2018  which he didnt consent  to. When Mr N initially 
complained to Natwest he only disputed nine ATM  withdrawals  in October and November 
2017 but on contacting  our service he said several  of the other  transactions  on his account  
over a longer  period  werent carried out by him. Mr N said he suffers  from memory 
problems and finds it difficult to remember dates, times and faces.  Taking this into account 
hes been given  several opportunities to specify which transactions he carried  out and which  
hes disputing during this period, but hes not been  consistent or specific in his accounts.  
Mr N has suggested that he thinks his card has been cloned  although hes been told that 
cloning of cards with chips isnt possible.  He hasnt been able to provide an explanation as to 
how his card was taken and replaced  on multiple occasions without him noticing. 
Natwest investigated and decided not to refund  the disputed transactions.  They said:
The genuine card was used and the correct PIN was input to complete the 
transactions
Mr N advised them that the card was always kept in his possession 
Mr N said he hadnt disclosed his PIN to anyone
He didnt have  many visitors  around to his home  address
My N wasnt  happy with Natwests response  and contacted our service. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ns complaint and didnt think that Natwest  had done  
anything wrong  in their investigation. In summary she felt unable to conclude that the 
transactions were  made fraudulently, and they were most likely made and authorised by 
Mr N.  
Natwest accepted  our investigators  opinion but Mr N didnt agree. He said he didnt spend 
the money and so it should be returned.  
As Mr N didnt  agree its been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. 
Generally Natwest can hold Mr N liable for the transactions if the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not he made or authorised the transactions  himself.  So Ive thought  about 
whether Natwest have sufficient evidence to suggest Mr N carried out the transactions. 
Mr N has been given  several opportunities to be specific about  the transactions hes 
disputing between March  2017 to October  2018 but hasnt been  able to  so Ive focused on 
the nine cash  withdrawals Mr N initially disputed with Natwest. Ive seen technical evidence  
Ref: DRN04766982which covers these  disputed transactions. And Im satisfied that the banks technical  
evidence shows that Mr Ns genuine card and PIN was used to make them.  But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for Natwest  to hold him 
liable. So I also need to consider whether  the evidence suggests its more  likely that not he 
consented to all the disputed transactions being made. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Natwest  to conclude that Mr N 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Mr N said he cant remember  whether  he authorised the disputed transactions  or 
not. But he knows that he simply wouldnt have carried them out. 
Mr N has said that he authorised some of the transactions  in between the 
disputed transactions.  For the disputed transactions to have been carried out by 
a third party without  Mr Ns authorisation,  the fraudster would have needed to 
take  and replace  Mr Ns card on several  occasions without him noticing. 
I dont think its plausible that a fraudster could  have  successfully  taken Mr Ns 
card and replaced it on so many  occasions without him noticing. Mr N has said 
he lives on his own and doesnt have frequent visitors. He said that his card is 
kept on him or in his bedroom  and hasnt been  able to explain how someone 
could have repeatedly got hold of his card. 
The transactions were  made using Mr Ns genuine card and PIN, but theres no 
convincing explanation for how the third party could have known Mr Ns PIN. He 
said he doesnt write his PIN down and hasnt  shared it with anyone. 
Taking everything into account,  I find on balance that Mr N carried out the disputed  
transactions. It follows that Natwest is entitled  to hold him liable for them. 
Ref: DRN04766983My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0476698