K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains, via a representative, about  Santander UK Plc ("Santander")  placing a 
block on her account which prevented cheques being payable  and use of her bank card.  
She wants compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional view, in a provisional decision 
dated February 2020. 
This explained why I considered that the complaint should be partially upheld. 
My provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been  offered the 
opportunity to comment. 
Santander has responded,  indicating  that it agrees to increase its offer,  in line with my 
provisional decision. 
Mrs F has replied, correcting some of the factual  background I had set out, and setting out 
her view that the compensation I suggested  was insufficient. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has explained  that parts of my understanding of the factual background were 
incorrect. Specifically, Mrs F has explained  that:
She is in constant  pain and is unable to walk any distance;
She did not attend the branch of Santander in April 2018, but telephoned to advise 
that she had lost her chequebook.  Her representative later attended  the branch, 
taking with him the power of attorney for health and welfare;
Santander refused  to explain, on Mrs Fs enquiry, why the account had been 
blocked; and
Mrs F only attended the branch on two occasions, over the twelve  month period and 
at each appointment the block was lifted to allow  her to withdraw £200.
Mrs F also makes  the point that Santander  should  have  accepted  that Mrs F had capacity 
unless or until it was presented with evidence to show that she could not make decisions 
about her finances.  
I am grateful to Mrs F for these clarifications around the factual background. These  do not 
materially affect my understanding of the situation, however, as it remains the case  that 
Santander became  concerned after speaking with Mrs F and placed the block. I note,  
however, that this was following a telephone call rather than an in person attendance. 
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  I do not criticise Santander  for taking  
steps to protect  Mrs Fs account when it had reason  to become concerned.  
I appreciate Mrs Fs comments that Santander should presume capacity unless it is shown 
that the person lacks capacity. I understand this position, but Santander has set out that in 
Ref: DRN06556802this instance something  during Mrs Fs telephone call gave them  cause to be concerned  
about the operation of her account.  
In those circumstances, I continue to think that it was reasonable of Santander to require a 
power of attorney for financial  affairs before allowing access to Mrs Fs representative. 
I am grateful to Mrs F for confirming that she only attended the branch on two occasions.  I 
appreciate that she found this difficult and distressing and I had taken this into account.  
Mrs F has said that the amount of compensation I have suggested is derisory  given  the 
impact upon Mrs F of being  without access to her account for an extended  period.  
I understand this view and do sympathise with the effects upon Mrs F over this period, but 
on the basis that I think it was reasonable for Santander to request a power of attorney, once 
requested I think it was reasonable for Santander  to await  that power of attorney being 
provided before removing  the block. In my view the reason for the extended  delay was the 
delay in providing the power of attorney, after which time Santander  acted promptly. 
I remain of the view that £200 is an appropriate amount of compensation to reflect  
Santanders failings,  and the impact  that those  failings had upon Mrs F. 
As a result, having taken  into account the comments provided, I maintain  my view and I 
adopt my provisional  decision, along with the amendments and corrections provided by Mrs 
F in this document, as my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I partially  uphold  Mrs Fs 
complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay to her £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0655680