K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt ensure she was aware that her 
motor insurance policy  had been  cancelled.
 
background
Mrs J took out the policy in July 2018  and paid for it in full. In January  2019 on the way to 
work she was stopped  by the police  and told she was driving without insurance. Her car was 
seized. Later  on Mrs J got six penalty  points on her licence and was fined £507.  UKI said it 
hadnt received  proof of Mrs Js no claims discount (NCD). It said it wrote to her twice in 
September 2018 but got no reply, so a cancellation  notice was issued on 3 October  2018.
Mrs J accepted that she hadnt told UKI shed moved house since  taking the policy out. But 
she said shed advised it that her preferred  method of contact was email, and it also had her 
mobile phone number. So she thought it should have contacted  her other than by letter.
Mrs J also queried why UKI didnt contact  her after letters addressed to her were  returned 
marked does not live here anymore on 30 October  2018. Admiral said that was after the 
policy had been  cancelled, so no further  action was taken. It also said Mrs J should  have 
noted that her premium  was returned  to her and that policy  documents werent  issued.  
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Js complaint. He thought UKI should have tried to 
contact Mrs J by email  or phone after it got no reply to its pre-cancellation letters.  He also 
thought it should have  ensured she knew the policy had been cancelled  after it got the 
returned mail from her previous address. He thought it should reimburse Mrs J for the 
impound fee and fine and pay her £300  compensation  for distress and inconvenience. And 
he said UKI should pay her £1,500 to offset the increase in premiums  she was likely  to face 
as a result  of her conviction for driving without insurance.
UKI said Mrs J should accept some responsibility for what  had happened.  As the investigator 
disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional  decision as 
follows:
I agree  with UKI that Mrs J should have given it her new address. The policy says UKI will 
give seven days notice  of cancellation in writing  to the latest address it has for the policy 
holder. As thats what it did  in addition  to the reminder letters about proof of NCD - I dont 
think it was required to contact Mrs J by phone or email as well. It couldnt have known she 
hadnt received  its letters  at that stage  and it says the way its system generates  
cancellation letters means they cant be emailed  anyway.   
I think the cancellation in itself was reasonable. But as UKI later found out that Mrs J hadnt 
seen the cancellation letters, I think  the issue is whether it acted reasonably  then. 
Ideally, Mrs J would have  realised something  was wrong  when the premium refund  was paid 
into her bank account and the policy documents didnt arrive.  But I think its easy for 
consumers to overlook  the non-arrival of documents when theyre  dealing  with numerous 
demands on their time. Many consumers dont check their financial records  thoroughly   and 
the sum Mrs J got back was relatively small, as the whole premium was only £284.  So I can 
understand why she thought all was in order, especially as shed paid for the policy up front. 
Ref: DRN06926702The new occupiers of Mrs Js old address  say they returned UKIs letters as they arrived. 
UKIs records show that it knew by 30 October 2018  that Mrs J hadnt got its letters,  as by 
then it had got them back. At that point, she and Mr J had been  driving  without insurance  for 
several weeks already,  but fortunately there had been no incidents. UKI says it didnt try to 
contact Mrs J because the policy had already been  cancelled. I dont think UKIs decision 
was reasonable  in the circumstances. Had it not got the letters back,  I think it would have 
been fair for it to assume that Mrs J had seen them, but didnt want to carry on with the 
policy, for whatever  reason. But thats not what happened. 
I think UKI should have  realised that as Mrs J didnt know the policy  had ended, she may 
well be driving without  insurance. Potentially, that can have very serious consequences,  so 
in my opinion UKI should then have tried to contact Mrs J by phone, text or email. Had it 
done so, no doubt she would have  arranged cover elsewhere straight  away.  She wouldnt 
then have been stopped  by the police  over two months later. She wouldnt have incurred all 
the costs arising  from the conviction or the distress and inconvenience shes  had to face 
since January 2019.   
I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to refund Mrs J for the cost of getting her car 
back from the police and for the fine she had to pay when  she was convicted. Mrs J was 
horrified to find she had no insurance. She was left on the roadside on her way to a night 
shift at her workplace.  She had to arrange  to collect her car and get new insurance for it and 
for a second  car on which shes insured as a named driver.  She now has six penalty points 
on her licence. I think it would be reasonable for UKI to pay Mrs J £500  compensation given 
the level of distress and inconvenience shes faced. 
In round figures, Mrs J had paid UKI £284 for her 2018  2019 policy. She struggled to get a 
new policy with the conviction and couldnt  find any at a competitive price.  Mrs J is paying  
£517 for her new insurance  in instalments, as she couldnt afford to pay the full sum. 
Mrs J is a named driver on her husbands policy, which cost £320  for 2018  2019.  That 
policys insurer wasnt prepared to continue its cover  given Mrs Js conviction. The choice of 
new insurer was limited,  and in rounded figures  the new premium for Mr Js car is £594. So 
the total increase in premiums as a result of Mrs Js conviction is £507. We usually multiply 
any increase in premiums  by five  as the conviction will have  an impact for five years.  But 
we then divide the total sum by two. Thats because many other issues  can affect  premium  
prices  and the impact  of the conviction will lessen  each  year.  In this case, I think  that 
means UKI should  pay Mrs J £1,267 towards  the increased premiums.  
I think Mrs J has experienced a very difficult and stressful time since January 2019. But in 
my opinion, if UKI refunds Mrs Js losses, contributes to the cost of the increased premiums 
and compensates her for distress and inconvenience,  that will go a long way towards putting 
matters right. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. UKI said it had followed its 
standard cancellation process. It said had Mrs J given it her new address she would have 
been aware of the need for her to supply NCD proof.  Mrs J said she thought the record of 
the cancellation should be removed,  but other than that she accepted  my provisional view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06926703As I said in my provisional decision,  I agree that Mrs J should have given UKI her new 
address and I also agree that UKI followed its stated cancellation process. I dont think the 
cancellation in itself was unfair. Thats why I havent said the records  of it should be deleted.  
But when UKI realised that Mrs J hadnt seen the cancellation  letters, I think  it should have 
tried to let her know that the policy had been cancelled. The consequences of her driving 
without insurance  could have been far worse  than they actually were.  But they were serious 
enough, especially  in terms of the financial losses Mrs J faced. So I remain  of the view that 
UKI should try to put matters right by compensating Mrs J in the way I proposed.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
Refund £150 to Mrs J for the cost of getting  her car back  from the police 
Refund Mrs J £507 for the court fine 
Add interest to the sums above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mrs J £1,267  towards the cost of the increased premiums
Pay Mrs J £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
If UKI thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken  off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0692670