K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly refused to pay 
all his claims under his pet policy.
background
Mr H took out his policy in January 2018.  In December 2018, his dog was diagnosed with a 
right cruciate ligament  rupture. Sadly in January 2019 his vet said both cruciate  ligaments 
were affected. So his dog had to have two repair operations one after the first one had 
healed.
Mr H made  a claim to RSA for the cost of both operations. RSA accepted his claim but said 
under his policy cover was limited for such connected  conditions.  That meant he only had 
£4,000 worth of cover  for both operations.  This left Mr H out of pocket  for the majority  of the 
costs of the second operation.
His vet and RSAs  vet discussed  the matter. However RSA remained of the view it was a 
connected condition  and consequently his policy limited cover  to only £4,000.  So it wouldnt 
change his stance.
Mr H then brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  RSA had done anything 
wrong. Mr H didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
I do understand and appreciate that Mr H will be very disappointed with my decision.  
However limitations of cover for such connected  conditions are not unusual in the pet 
insurance industry. My role and the role of this service is to assess  whether RSA applied  its 
limitation fairly bearing in mind the evidence and the policy  terms and conditions. 
Mr Hs policy  says the following:
If your pet suffers from a number of illnesses or injuries or changes in its health or 
behaviour the treating vet will be asked if these health issues are connected. If the 
vet confirms that they are, theyll be considered as one and the amount we pay you 
will be up to the vet fee limit for each illness, accident or change in its health or 
behaviour".
Mr H and his vet were aware  of the stance RSA said it would take in relation to the 
operations on both the dogs cruciate  ligaments before  the first operation as Mr Hs vet 
asked for preauthorisation. So I consider RSA was upfront and clear from the start, which  I 
consider is reasonable.
In the vet history  at the entry for 26 April 2019,  Mr Hs vet talks of the left cruciate ligament 
showing that the medial meniscus was fraying but there  was no evidence  of instability or 
larger tears.  But he told RSA on the same  day that the left was due to traumatic rupture, 
Ref: DRN05451682whilst also admitting to the fact that degenerative arthropathies cant be ruled out. This in my 
view is somewhat contradictory.
RSAs vet cited extensive accredited  research explaining how and why dogs can develop 
whats now called cruciate  ligament  disease. Unfortunately given the breed type of Mr Hs 
dog plus her relatively young  age and the fact shes female, put her at higher risk of 
developing cruciate ligament  issues.  He showed and explained that its very rare to get 
traumatic cruciate ligament ruptures.  He explained  that most ruptures are characterised by 
the degeneration of the matrix  of the ligament leading to the rupture. He also explained the 
statistical chance of Mr Hs dog suffering two traumatic but unwitnessed ligament ruptures 
within seven weeks would  be extremely low. Its clear  also that initially Mr Hs dog went lame  
getting off the sofa which isnt a traumatic event,  so I dont think the first ligament rupture 
could ever considered  a traumatic  event.
Taking all this in account Im more persuaded that RSAs vet is most  likely correct. I consider 
Mr Hs vet did his best to support Mr H, but what he says is less persuasive. So I dont think  
RSA has been  unreasonable  in its consideration of Mr Hs claims, given the limitation of 
benefit for connected  conditions, which as I said above is not unusual in pet policies.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0545168