K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008 by phone. Mr M says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding the policy to his card. Barclays has provided a copy  of the sales  script that its 
representatives were  expected  to follow at the time.  While I cant be certain how closely  the 
script wouldve been followed, I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays did anything 
differently when it sold the PPI to Mr M. Mr M also took out the PPI several years after he 
applied for his card. So based  on the information available I think  Mr M would have known 
he didnt need  to have the policy and he chose to have it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr M has told us he was entitled to significant  sick pay and had savings that he could have 
used to help make his repayments. He would also have had redundancy cover.  But the PPI 
covered unemployment only,  not sickness, and would have paid out in addition  to any other  
cover Mr M had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time he wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he has said about being  
pressured into taking  the policy. But pressure can be subjective  so I would need strong 
Ref: DRN05160022evidence that Mr M was pressured into taking the policy to uphold  this complaint for this 
reason, which  I havent seen. So these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0516002