K821x#15Complaint
Ms G complains that NewDay Ltd wont refund  three  payments made using her credit card, 
which she says she didnt  make or authorise.
Background
In April 2017, Ms G noticed a transaction on her credit card account which she didnt 
recognise. Looking  over earlier statements, she realised there had been other  payments  to 
the same, overseas,  business. The disputed transactions are:
08/01/2017 £115.44
16/02/2017 £120.74
18/03/2017 £121.53
Total £357.71
NewDay submitted a chargeback claim and refunded Ms Gs account. But the merchants 
bank defended the chargeback. It said Ms G had agreed to the merchants services and 
given it her card details online or over the phone.  For this reason, NewDay  re-applied the 
payments to her account.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He didnt think  NewDay  had seen 
enough evidence  to show that Ms G had signed up to any services with the merchant  and 
that it should have escalated the chargeback claim to MasterCards adjudication appeal 
process. It was now too late to do this, so our adjudicator thought NewDay should refund the 
payments, plus any additional interest  and fees charged as a result.
NewDay didnt agree. It said, in summary,  that the merchant had provided enough details to 
show that the transactions were completed using Ms Gs customer details and card number 
and there  was no explanation as to how the merchant  would  have had this information, 
except that Ms G provided  it. It said it would not expect  to receive any additional information 
from the merchant in response to a chargeback request.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The merchant says Ms G subscribed to its membership programme with monthly billing. It 
had details of her name, phone number, billing address and email address.  It said she would  
have signed up either by phone or online for an initial trial membership. She then failed to 
cancel the subscription  after the trial period, so she was charged on a monthly  basis  in line 
with the terms and conditions which she agreed  to.
But Ms G says she doesnt recognise  the merchant. It is an overseas business which seems 
to provide vitamins  and supplements.  She says she didnt order  any of its products. And 
NewDay hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show  Ms G made  an online application 
 other  than the merchant has her address and email. And Ive not seen  evidence  that any 
products were delivered to Ms G. 
I agree  with our adjudicator that, without that evidence, NewDay cant be certain  that Ms G 
authorised the transactions. And it should  have investigated this, through the chargeback 
process, more thoroughly.
Ref: DRN09513212For that reason,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for NewDay  to credit Ms Gs account 
with the disputed transactions and associated charges.
My final decision
My decision  is that NewDay Ltd should:
1. Credit Ms Gs account with the three  disputed transactions  and the associated non-
sterling transaction fees.
2. Re-work Ms Gs account to remove any interest or charges caused by the disputed  
transactions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0951321