K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland plc closed  his bank account  and placed a CIFAS 
marker against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud  alert system; Bank of Scotland  trades in 
this instance under its Halifax brand.   
background
Mr K had a current account with Halifax, with a debit card linked to it. In June 2018 a 
payment of £5,000 was made to the account.  Mr K says he knows nothing about that 
payment. A few days  later two payments were  made  from the account, using Mr Ks debit 
card. Both were made at a currency exchange  in Mr Ks home town. They  totalled  just under 
£4,800. 
Some time later, Halifax was contacted  by the bank from which  the £5,000 payment had 
come. It said that its customer  hadnt  authorised the payment  the money had, in effect, 
been transferred  fraudulently into Mr Ks account.  Halifax wrote to Mr K to say that it was 
closing his account. it also placed  a CIFAS  marker against his name.         
Mr K says he didnt receive  the letter from Halifax. It was only some weeks  later  when  he 
tried to pay some money into his account   that he found out that his account had been 
closed. And it wasnt until he tried unsuccessfully to open  accounts  with other providers that 
he found out that there was a marker against his name, making that impossible.    
Mr K complained to Halifax,  but it believed it had acted fairly. Its records  showed that the 
payments from Mr Ks account had been  made using his genuine card and PIN, indicating  
that he had something  to do with them. Mr K said however that he had been abroad (or at 
least boarding  a flight) at the time. He had taken  his card with him. He said too that hed kept 
his PIN safe and hadnt shared it with anyone. 
Mr K referred the matter to this service,  where  one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that it was more likely  than not that Mr K had authorised the transactions and was 
therefore linked to the payment to his account.  Mr K didnt accept the investigators 
conclusions and asked  that an ombudsman review  the case. In the meantime, the 
investigator asked Halifax  if it had anything more to support its case that Mr K had been 
involved; Halifax hasnt  responded.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I accept first of all that the payment of £5,000 to Mr Ks account was made  without the 
authority of the person  from whose account  it came. Ive no reason to think that persons  
bank was wrong in reaching that conclusion;  and Mr K of course  says he knows nothing 
about the payment and wasnt expecting it. Of course, someone could have put that money 
in his account without his knowledge; that would  only require the payer to know his account 
number and sort code,  both of which could be obtained fairly easily.
However, I think it likely  that whoever arranged that payment  knew at the time that they 
would be able to withdraw the money from Mr Ks account. The transfer to his account and 
Ref: DRN04850492the withdrawals from it were part of the same operation. I have therefore  considered  how the 
payments from Mr Ks account were made. 
Im satisfied first of all that they were made using Mr Ks genuine card and PIN. The 
transaction records show that the electronic chip embedded  in the card was read. Whilst its 
possible to produce  a copy of the magnetic stripe on a card to produce a clone, reproducing 
the chip is rather different.  Im satisfied too that the correct PIN was entered.  Its unlikely that 
someone could  correctly guess the PIN, and its not recorded in accessible format on the 
card itself. 
Mr K says he was travelling abroad and had the card with him at the relevant time. But, 
wherever he was, his card was being used in his home  town, so he cant have taken it 
abroad with him then.  He hasnt explained  how that could have happened,  and I note that he 
says he had the card with him after the withdrawals had been  made.  
In my view, the most likely  explanation  is therefore that Mr K allowed someone else access 
to his account. He may not have  known how they might use that access, but I agree with the 
investigator that Halifax had sufficient reason  to register a CIFAS marker against his name  
and to close his account. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept  or reject  my decision  before 28 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0485049