K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss A have complained about  incorrect late payment  information added to their 
credit files by Step One Finance Limited.  They want Step One to compensate them  for the 
extra costs  they have incurred by being refused interest-free credit.
background
Mr S and Miss A have a loan taken  out in on 13 July 2012 with Step One.  They borrowed 
£16,000 over 25 years.  The loan is secured against their home and is regulated  under  the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  The loan agreement provides at Condition 3 that payments  must 
be made by direct debit.
The monthly repayment is due one calendar  month after the loan is completed, but in 
December 2012  Mr S and Miss A asked  Step One to change their payment date to the 
28th of each month.  The first payment  due after that was on 28 January 2013.
In 2014 Mr S and Miss A cancelled their direct debit and began  making  payment by card or 
bank transfer.
Recently Mr S and Miss A have been  making  payment before the 28th of the month, which 
has led to the issues with their credit  file. Mr S and Miss A say that, in error, Step One has 
registered late payments  on their account when they have,  in fact, paid in advance. They say 
that, as a result of this, theyve been  turned down for credit which they would otherwise have 
been eligible for.
In October  2018 Mr S and Miss A complained to Step One and said they wanted their credit 
files corrected. Step One explained that its systems  are set up so that if a payment is made 
to the account  before  the due date, this is treated as an early  repayment of capital rather  
than the monthly  instalment. So on the actual due date, if no payment is received  within  
seven days, the system treats this as a missed payment.
Step One acknowledged  that the account  shouldnt have been reported as being in arrears,  
even though, technically, this was correct. But it explained that it had to make  manual 
adjustments to the account to correct this and that this wasnt  sustainable going forward. 
Step One said that Mr S and Miss A would either need to pay on the actual due date of the 
28th of the month or else they could change their payment date to one that is more 
convenient to them. 
Unhappy with Step Ones response, Mr S and Miss A brought  their complaint to us. An 
investigator looked at what  had happened  and what both parties have  to say about it. But he 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld.
Mr S and Miss A asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. In summary, they say 
that they think it is grossly  unfair and that they have been  trapped in a high interest  loan for a 
year longer  than they could have been. Mr S and Miss A say they have not made late 
payments and they are shocked  that they can be treated so unethically.
Ref: DRN04054872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account everything 
Mr S and Miss A have said, but, having done  so, Im not upholding the complaint.
Modern banking is largely an automated process and lenders factor  this into cost of running 
their businesses. Computer systems  are put in place to apply  payments to the accounts and 
generally, where payments are made in line with the account terms and conditions,  there  
isnt the need for human  intervention  or manual override of the system.
The terms and conditions  for Mr S and Miss As account say that payment must be made by 
direct debit on the due date. This was changed  at the request of Mr S and Miss A to the 28th 
of the month.  If payments  are made  by direct debit on the 28th of each month, the capital and 
interest will be applied correctly. 
Step Ones systems are set to apply payments made outside of the due date in different 
ways. A payment made in advance is treated as a capital reduction, which means  that, 
unless a payment  is made on the due date, it will appear as if the payment for that month 
has been missed. 
The only way Step One can change this is by manual intervention,  with a member of staff 
making adjustments to the account  to ensure extra interest isnt charged and by amending 
the credit  file. Step Ones  explained that this level of bespoke service is outside the norm  
and is unsustainable  going forward. I dont think Step One is being unreasonable  here.  Its 
not required to provide  a personal banking service. And, whilst its required to assist 
customers, I also think Mr S and Miss A have a responsibility to mitigate their position.
Mr S and Miss A have been made aware  that if they dont  make payments in accordance 
with the terms and conditions  that is, by direct  debit on the due date  their credit file may 
be affected.  Im satisfied there are steps Mr S and Miss A can take to make  sure their credit  
files arent  affected.  They can set up a direct debit for the due date.
Step One has said that, if it is more convenient  for Mr S and Miss A, it will allow  a change to 
the date of payment for a direct debit to be set up without charging  its usual fee for this. I 
think this is reasonable  in all the circumstances. 
Mr S and Miss A arent, of course,  under any obligation to set up a direct  debit; if they want  
to make their payments by card or bank transfer,  thats up to them. But I dont think  it would 
be fair or reasonable  to expect Step One to continue to provide them  with a personal 
banking service to administer their payments if they choose not to pay by direct  debit. So its 
up to Mr S and Miss A to decide if they want to continue to pay by card or bank transfer  
with potential implications  for their credit file  or if they want to set up a direct  debit.  I leave it 
to them  to decide what they want to do, but I must  make it clear that I do not expect 
Step One to provide a bespoke service to administer their payments if they arent made by 
direct debit.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN04054873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0405487