K821x#15complaint
Mrs I complains Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, unfairly recorded a fraud marker 
against her name.  She would like for it be removed.
background
Mrs I complained when  Halifax told her it was closing her account and was going to record  a 
fraud marker  against her name.  This  was because of a payment into her account in October 
2017 for just over £8200.   Once the money had been paid into her account, it was 
transferred out in two separate transactions.  Mrs I had transferred £500 into another  one of 
her own accounts.
Halifax said the funds  had been confirmed  as fraudulent and so it was entitled  to act as it 
did.
Mrs I told Halifax  that she had been transferring money into her friends  account   and had 
been doing so for some  months now.  Her  friend, who she had known since she first arrived 
in the UK, ran a business.  He told her he was unable to access  his own bank  due to 
distance and asked Mrs I if he could pay his takings into Mrs Is account and for her to then 
transfer them to his account.   She said she had not suspected any wrong  doing  in this.
When Halifax did not uphold her complaint, Mrs I came to this service.  
Our investigator thought Halifax had acted unfairly and asked it to remove  the marker.   
Halifax disagreed.   It said the funds  transferred  into the account were confirmed to be 
fraudulent and that this was sufficient reason for it to record the marker.  It also said Mrs Is 
actions in transferring  the money on were  sufficient to show a misuse of the facility.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Halifax is wrong in its submissions to this service.  A transfer into someones  
account of confirmed fraudulent funds, and the account holder then transferring that money  
out is not sufficient  evidence  for Halifax to record a CIFAS marker.
Halifax should only make  a report where it has relevant and rigorous evidence such that it 
could report the matter to the police.  In other words, it must have, at the very least, a 
reasonable suspicion that Mrs I had committed or attempted  to commit an offence.   This 
would require an element of intent  and dishonesty.
Mrs Is evidence appears consistent.  She had been  allowing  her friend  to pay money into 
her account  for months before the October transfer   and I can see from her statement that 
this was the case.  In fact. I can see that she continued to make  these payments after the 
October transfer too.  I have taken Mrs I to be a credible  witness.
Halifaxs own notes record that there  was some  doubt about whether Mrs I was aware of any 
wrong doing  yet it continued to refuse to remove the marker.
Ref: DRN05715282I think it has acted unfairly  here and Im not persuaded it met the test in recording the marker 
in the first place.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should remove  the CIFAS  marker recorded against 
Mrs I with immediate effect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 8 November 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0571528