K821x#15Complaint
Mr M and Mrs K are unhappy with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
Background
Mr M and Mrs K were contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as P, that supplied and 
installed solar panels. Following a meeting at their home, Mr M and Mrs K agreed  to enter 
into a contract with P for it to supply and install a solar panel system. To pay for this, they 
also agreed to enter into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. 
Shortly after the solar  panels were  installed  at their home, Mr M and Mrs K cancelled  the 
contract with P and the fixed  sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.  The solar  panels were 
subsequently removed from their home. Mr M and Mrs K also raised  concerns  with the sale 
of the solar panel  system which do not form part of this complaint.
During the course of the installation of the solar  panel system,  Mr M and Mrs K said that P 
had caused damage to some of their window  sills, rendering on their home and the felt on 
the flat roof. Although Mr M and Mrs K provided  P with quotes to carry out the repair work to 
their home, no repairs were completed.
Unhappy with the lack of progress, Mr M and Mrs K made a claim under section 75 (s75) of 
the Act. To resolve  the damage to their home, Shawbrook  asked  them to provide 3 quotes 
so it could arrange for the necessary repair work to be carried out. It also offered to pay £250 
for the trouble and upset  caused.
When it wasnt provided with 3 quotes,  Shawbrook offered to pay Mr M and Mrs K the 
quotes they had originally  provided P for the repair work with 8% simple interest. This would 
then allow  Mr M and Mrs K to arrange and pay for the necessary  repair  work. It maintained 
its offer of £250  for the trouble and upset caused. Our investigator  thought  that the offer 
made by Shawbrook was fair.
Mr M and Mrs K said they would accept  the offer if Shawbrook would also be willing  to pay 
for any further repair work that may be needed  to the flat roof, namely any damage that may 
be caused to the timber  boards.
Shawbrook didnt agree  to this. It arranged for a contractor to attend  Mr M and Mrs Ks home  
to consider what repair work needed  to be completed. The contractor supplied  a report, a 
copy of which has been shared with Mr M and Mrs K, setting out the necessary repair work. 
This included replacing the damaged window sills, repairing any rendering that may be 
damaged when the window sills are removed and over-felting the existing felt on the flat roof.
Based on the report Shawbrook  said it would  arrange and pay for the repair work identified 
and our investigator considered this to be fair.
Mr M and Mrs K didnt accept. In particular Mr M said over-felting the existing flat roof wasnt 
the correct  and professional way for the repair work to be carried out. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me to review.
Ref: DRN05476882My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr M and Mrs K for their patience whilst  their complaint has been  with 
this service.
Shawbrook has accepted responsibility for the repair  work thats required at Mr M and Mrs 
Ks home. Because  of this, my decision will focus  on whether the offer put forward by 
Shawbrook, to arrange for the necessary repair work to be carried out, is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr M and Mrs K have said that during the installation,  and subsequent  removal, of the solar 
panel system from their home, damage  was caused  to the render on the rear of their home,  
window sills were scratched and chipped and the felt on their flat roof was torn and ripped 
leading to water ingress.
The areas of damage arent in dispute. Shawbrook arranged for an inspection to take place 
in October 2020.  That inspection  report says:
I can confirm that both window sills are damaged. There is a large scratch  on the left 
window sill and a large chip in the right window sill.
It goes on to say that when the window sills are removed,  there  is likely to be some  damage 
to the render which will need to be repaired.  In regard to the flat roof, the report  says:
I can confirm that there  is some damage  to the felt on the flat roof, in the form of scuffs and 
scratches. I cannot confirm how this damage  has been caused. I can also confirm  that there  
is evidence of some localised water ingress in one area through  the felt roof going  into the 
ceiling below. I cannot confirm if the timber boards below  the felt are damaged, as the only 
way to know this is to remove the felt covering. Due to the water  ingress  being  localised, I do 
not think that all of the timber boards below the felt would  be damaged. I therefore believe 
that over-felting the roof with new felt would be a sufficient repair.
Shawbrook has agreed that the window sills need to be replaced, rather  than repaired.  Mr M 
doesnt appear to disagree with this resolution, and Im satisfied that replacing  the window 
sills, rather than attempting to repair the scratches is fair. 
Mr M doesnt believe that over-felting the existing roof is the correct and professional way 
to carrying out the repair.  He is of the view that the felt on the flat roof should  be stripped and 
any necessary repairs  should  be carried out on the timber boards before the roof is felted.
Ive thought carefully on the point that Mr M has raised. Ive also taken into account  the 
report provided by Shawbrooks contractor as well as the quote for repair work that Mr M and 
Mrs K originally provided after the solar panels were  removed.
From my understanding, the original  quote provided by Mr M wasnt  to inspect and replace 
the timbers boards. I understand it is, similarly to the work Shawbrook  says it will arrange 
and pay for, to felt over the existing flat roof felt.
Ref: DRN05476883Therefore, neither the original quote, or the report from Shawbrook,  set out that the timber  
boards need to be inspected and replaced before  the flat roof is felted. 
At this service,  were  not experts  in repair work and we therefore we take into account 
reports prepared by experts, alongside other evidence and information supplied by all 
parties, to provide  us with the information on what may need to happen to put things right.
Taking the above into account, and that neither the report provided  on behalf of Shawbrook, 
or the original quote, state that the timber boards should be inspected  and replaced, Im not 
persuaded that the work Shawbrook will arrange and pay for isnt the correct and 
professional way for the repair  work  to be completed.
Therefore, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that the offer put forward by 
Shawbrook, to carry out the required  repairs to Mr M and Mrs Ks home, is fair and 
reasonable.
For avoidance of any confusion the repair work is to:
Replace the damaged window sills
Repair any render  damaged  when the window sills are replaced
Felt over the existing  flat roof
I have no doubt  that this whole episode has caused Mr M and Mrs K trouble and upset. They  
have been left with a home that has needed repair work, including  a leaking  flat roof, for a 
significant period  of time. Consequently, Ill make an award of £250 for this.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ks complaint.  In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Shawbrook Bank Limited  to:
Arrange for the repair work to be completed in line with its report; and,
Pay Mr M and Mrs K £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0547688