K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the changes that have  been applied  to the interest rate on 
their mortgage since its been  administered by Pepper (UK) Limited. 
They also complain that Pepper (UK) Limited  havent been able to provide them with their 
mortgage offer, or any documentation which proves what  interest  rate should be applied to 
the mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  a mortgage that was transferred to a new lender in September 2015, Ill 
call them lender A. As lender A was not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), they appointed Pepper to administer the account on their behalf. Pepper are 
regulated by the FCA.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs S complained to Pepper about  the fact their contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) had increased despite a fall in the interest rate. Pepper responded and 
explained how the monthly payments were  calculated,  they acknowledged  Mr S had been  
given some incorrect information previously and apologised for this. 
In December 2017 Pepper wrote  to Mr and Mrs S to tell them  the interest rate on their 
mortgage was increasing, and so their CMP was changing again with effect from 31 January  
2018. Mr S complained  to Pepper  again  about this change. He also asked for a copy  of his 
original mortgage  documentation so he could see what it said about the interest  rate. Pepper 
said they didnt  have a copy of the original mortgage offer. Mr S complained about this too.
Pepper issued  their final response letter  in January 2018.  They said that lender A 
determines the interest rate for the mortgage  by a process of regular reviews. Lender  A is 
not obliged to amend the interest rate in response to changes in external rates or other 
factors, and had made the business decision to increase the rate. Pepper also said they had 
not been given the original mortgage file when the mortgage was transferred from the 
previous lender, so couldnt share the mortgage  offer with Mr and Mrs S. They  did send 
them a copy  of the mortgage deed and the mortgage terms and conditions, and explained if 
Mr and Mrs S had anything to show they should  be on a different interest rate, they would 
review it.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service.  Our investigator  looked into things and 
explained that we couldnt consider  Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about the interest  rate changes 
made on their mortgage, as these changes were made by lender A, who we didnt have the 
power to consider complaints against.  She said we could consider how Pepper had handled 
the request for Mr and Mrs Ss original  mortgage  documentation, as this falls under the 
regulated activity of administering the account. Having  done so she didnt think Pepper 
needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with this outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to issue  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07932692But firstly, Ive considered  whether our service has the power to consider all of Mr and Mrs 
Ss complaint. Having  done so, Im not satisfied  we do. Ill explain why.
Our service doesnt have  the power to consider every complaint thats brought  to us. The 
rules which set out which complaints we can consider, are set out in the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) handbook. 
These rules  say that we can only consider a complaint against a firm that falls under  our 
services jurisdiction. Lender A is not regulated by the FCA, and so our service doesnt have 
the jurisdiction to consider complaints made  about the actions of lender A. However, Pepper 
is regulated and do fall under the jurisdiction of our service, so Ive thought  about  whether 
we can consider Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about  the interest rate against Pepper. Having 
done so, I dont think we can. 
As well as the firm falling under our jurisdiction,  in order for our service to consider a 
complaint, the activity  being complained about  has to be carried  out by that firm, and also 
has to be a regulated  activity (or an activity carried out ancillary to a regulated activity). In Mr 
and Mrs Ss case, the regulated activity  Pepper  are carrying out is that of administering the 
mortgage account. Pepper have  explained  that the decision to change  the interest rate was 
made by lender A, and was not an action  carried  out by Pepper.  As a result, whilst I 
appreciate it will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs S, Im satisfied we cant  consider  Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint about the interest  rate against  Pepper.
However, Mr and Mrs S also complain that Pepper  havent given them  any information to 
show what interest rate they agreed to when they took this mortgage  out. Pepper  have  sent 
Mr and Mrs S a copy of their mortgage deeds  and the terms and conditions of the mortgage  
account, but have explained they never received a copy of the mortgage offer from the 
previous lender. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs S would have been  sent their own copy  of the mortgage offer when they 
agreed to the mortgage, I think its a reasonable expectation that their current mortgage 
provider should  still hold a copy, particularly as the mortgage is still running.  So its 
disappointing Pepper havent been able to provide it and I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss 
frustrations about  this.
Although Pepper  have  said they dont hold a copy of the mortgage offer, our investigator 
contacted Mr and Mrs Ss previous lender to see if she could get a copy from them. 
However, they confirmed  they dont hold this either  and were only able to provide a copy  of 
the original application form. So I think on balance its likely  Pepper doesnt have this 
information as neither  them nor the previous lender have been  able to locate a copy.
So Ive thought about the impact this has had on Mr and Mrs S and whether I think  Pepper 
need to do anything to put this right. The reason Mr and Mrs S want  a copy of their mortgage 
offer is to clarify the interest rate they should be paying on the mortgage based  on what was 
agreed at the time they took it out. The mortgage  offer will show  whether any initial interest 
rate product  was taken, and what interest rate the mortgage would  revert  to once the product 
ended. However  beyond  that, the way the mortgage  operates, including  how the interest  rate 
is applied, will be determined by what the terms and conditions of the mortgage say about 
how it will operate.
Ref: DRN07932693Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage, and these explain that 
the company  sets the interest  rate that applies to the mortgage. And in the definitions  
section of the terms and conditions  company is defined as the company specified against 
such heading in the mortgage  and includes its successors and assigns. Lender A is now the 
company that Mr and Mrs S owe their mortgage debt to. So Im satisfied that under  the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage,  lender  A is responsible for setting the interest rate of Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage, and thats  been the case since the mortgage  was transferred in 2015. As 
a result,  whilst the mortgage offer would show the terms under which  the mortgage was set 
up, Im not persuaded it would make a difference to the interest rate applied to the mortgage 
since it has been with lender A. As a result, Im not satisfied Pepper  need to do anything 
more to resolve this part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
I do empathise with Mr and Mrs Ss position,  as their mortgage  has transferred to a different 
lender and they no longer  have the option to take out any interest  rate products on their 
mortgage. Pepper have directed them to seek independent financial advice about their 
options if theyd  like a lower interest  rate on their mortgage. Id encourage Mr and Mrs S to 
do this if they havent  done so already.
Overall whilst I acknowledge this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, Im 
satisfied were unable  to consider their main concern about the interest rate charged on their 
mortgage. Whilst Im persuaded Pepper  should  have been  able to provide Mr and Mrs S with 
a copy of their mortgage offer, Im not satisfied theyve lost out as a result.  So Im not 
upholding this part of their complaint.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0793269