K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco  Bank)  failed  to make it 
clear she would be charged a foreign transaction fee when using her credit  card in a 
currency other than Sterling. 
Mrs M is represented  by Mr M in this case.  But as shes the primary cardholder, Ill refer to 
Mrs M throughout the decision.
background
Mrs M holds  a credit card with Tesco  Bank, which she used while  she was abroad. But after 
looking at her statements, she noticed  Tesco Bank  had applied a foreign  transaction  fee for 
the card payments she made while she was away. Mrs M was unhappy with this as she 
thought Tesco Bank hadnt made  it clear  to her that charges would apply.  So she 
complained about this to Tesco Bank.
Tesco Bank said that when Mrs M uses her Tesco Bank credit card in a currency other than 
Sterling, a transaction fee of 2.75% is applied. It said its always charged  a foreign 
transaction fee and that this is set out on the back of the monthly statements it sends Mrs M. 
So it didnt uphold  her complaint. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. She said the information  detailed on the back of 
her statement isnt clear as it only says that a foreign transaction  fee may apply. And that 
prior to this issue, she had no idea about  the charges. She also said shed found a new 
credit card that doesnt charge  for foreign transactions  and she wouldve switched to this 
new provider much sooner, if Tesco Bank had been honest and informed her of its charges.
Our investigator looked into things but thought that Tesco Bank  had acted fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the card. Mrs M disagreed, so the case has been passed  to 
me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint  
and Ill explain why.
Before December 2017 Mrs Ms statements showed one transaction amount, which was 
inclusive of the foreign transaction fee. Tesco Bank has since changed  this to show the 
transaction amount and the foreign transaction fee as separate  lines on the statements. Its 
following this change, that Mrs M says she realised shed been paying fees, that she thinks  
she couldve  avoided, by using an alternative credit card account.
Its common for certain fees to be applied on a credit  card account when its used to make  a 
payment in a foreign currency. Ive looked at the account terms and conditions.  These  say 
Tesco Bank can apply  fees for foreign transactions. So Im satisfied Tesco Bank could  apply 
the fees. 
Mrs Ms monthly statements  have a table that sets out the applicable foreign transaction  fees 
as percentage  rates.  This,  combined  with the terms and conditions,  mean  Im satisfied 
Tesco Bank did enough to let Mrs M know foreign  transactions fees would apply.  
Ref: DRN0437394Ive considered what Mrs M has said about the wording on the statements, in that they say 
foreign transactions fees may apply and not will apply. But this doesnt change my mind 
because the word may still means that a fee could apply. If in doubt, the terms and 
conditions explain more  about the relevant fees.  And if this was a concern  for Mrs M she 
couldve queried it with Tesco  Bank.  
I agree  that the recent change to show the fee thats  been applied is clearer. But as I 
understand it, the change was brought about by recent regulatory  changes.  Im not aware  of 
Tesco Bank being required to show the fee as it does now before the changes  took effect.  
So I dont  think it was unfair for Tesco Bank  not to do so. 
Overall, I think Tesco  Bank did enough  in this case to let Mrs M know that foreign transaction  
fees would  apply on foreign transactions. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0437394