K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy Avantia Insurance Limited trading as HomeProtect (Avantia)
failed to inform  them of changes to their contents insurance policy. They  said this led to a
claim with their insurer being declined.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2019, an extract of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
thought this complaint should  be upheld. And I asked everyone to send me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs W accepted my findings.  Avantia however reject my findings, and raised several  
points in response to my provisional decision, which Ive considered below. 
So Im now issuing my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us, in addition  to any new 
points raised, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Avantia raised three main arguments.
Its first argument was that in April 2018, Mr W spoke with the claims handling team  at his 
insurer, and that during  this call he said hed read his documentation, and understood why 
his claim was being declined. But in a later call, seems to have said that he didnt receive  his 
renewal documents.
Avantia seems to be suggesting that as Mr W confirmed he received his renewal documents  
during a call in April 2018, that he was aware  that cover for the accidental loss of valuables 
away from the home was being restricted to theft only. 
But my provisional decision hasnt focussed on whether  or not Mr and Mrs W necessarily 
received their renewal  documents.  This is because, even if Im satisfied they did, I dont think  
these documents  highlighted  prominently enough, that Mr and Mrs Ws valuables away  from 
the home were  no longer insured for accidental loss. So at the point they took out the policy,  
I dont think they realised they were no longer covered for the accidental loss of those items. 
So Avantias  point here doesnt persuade me to alter my decision. 
Avantia has also said   turning to your comment concerning Mr W requesting documentation 
to be issued by email. Homeprotect  only issue renewal documentation by post and therefore 
we would not have asked  for their preference  on receiving documentation.
While Ive commented on Mr and Mrs Ws communication  preference  in the background to 
the complaint,  this isnt something Ive considered  or made a finding on in my provisional 
decision, as I dont think I need  to. This is because, as Ive said above  even if I was 
satisfied Mr and Mrs W received  their renewal documents; Im not satisfied those documents 
sufficiently directed their attention to the fact that their valuables  away  from home were no 
longer being covered for accidental loss. So again, this point  does not alter my position.  
Ref: DRN08626332The third point raised by Avantia was that in 2017  its policy  changed, and it would be unable  
to highlight every change within the renewal  documents. So in order  to draw attention to the 
changes in the policy, it set out on page 1 of the renewal notice that the policy  booklet had 
been re-written, and it flagged the key changes within a standalone page.  It also said that it 
included a hard copy of the new policy booklet  within each renewal pack,  encouraging  
customers to ensure that the cover still met their needs.
While I accept that Avantias unable  to highlight every change  within  a renewal document; I 
would expect it to sufficiently highlight those areas where there  was a reduction in cover, or 
where a specific element  of cover was being taken away. As these  are likely to impact  a 
customers decision as to whether or not the policy is right for them.  
In this case, Mr and Mrs W had paid an additional  premium to insure their valuables away  
from the home. So the fact that they could no longer claim for the accidental loss of those 
items, was likely to have affected their decision whether or not to buy this policy.  And I think, 
given the reduction  in cover, its more  likely  than not, they would have  taken cover  
elsewhere. So this point hasnt led me to change my decision either. 
I accept Avantias unhappy  with the decision Ive made. But having  reviewed all the 
information afresh, including the new points raised  by Avantia, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  and for the same reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  And I require Avantia Insurance Limited to:
-pay Mr and Mrs W compensation equivalent to the settlement they would have 
received from the policy  they had, but ignoring the amended term about  accidental 
loss no longer being covered
-if a value cant be agreed,  instruct  an independent  loss adjuster at Avantias expense  
to assess the value of the watch
-pay interest on the compensation at 8% simple from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Avantia to take off tax from this interest. Avantia must 
give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
extract of provisional decision
background
Mr and Mrs W applied for a buildings and contents insurance policy in 2016  through Avantia. They 
said they wanted several valuable items to be covered away from the home.  Avantia  arranged a 
policy for them which  included cover for specific items of jewellery, some of which  were watches.  And 
this covered them for (amongst other things) the accidental loss of those  items.  
Ref: DRN08626333The policy renewed  automatically in 2017. And in 2018 Mr W made a claim through  his insurer for a 
lost watch.  His claim was declined, as the cover  for loss  on his policy had been restricted  to theft 
only at renewal. He said if hed realised  cover was being restricted in this way, he wouldve taken  a 
policy elsewhere. He said Avantia shouldve notified him of these  changes  to his policy by email, as 
this was his stated preference. 
Avantia said that documentation was sent out by post in 2017, which made clear the changes. It said 
that at this time, it moved all of its customers to its latest product offering which restricted  loss cover to 
theft only. So it felt it had made Mr and Mrs W sufficiently aware of the changes  to the policy. So it 
didnt think it needed  to do any more.  
One of our investigators has looked into the matter. He thought there was insufficient evidence to 
show that Mr and Mrs W had requested for information to be sent by email, and he accepted that they 
may not have  received the renewal documents by post.  But he thought  that because  Mr W said hed 
noticed an increase in his policy price in 2017, this should have prompted him to contact Avantia at 
this point to see if the policy still met their needs. And that had he done so, he wouldve seen the 
updated policy terms and conditions. 
Avantia accepted the findings. But Mr and Mrs W rejected  them. They  said it hadnt been made  clear 
to them their cover  was changing, and Avantia didnt appropriately assess  their demands and needs 
at the point  their policy was renewed. So as no agreements been reached at this stage, the case  has 
come to me, as an ombudsman to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
Several arguments  have been  raised on both sides regarding this complaint.  But having  reviewed  
everything, I think there are two key points for me to decide, in order to reach  a fair conclusion. These 
are as follows:
1.was it made  sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs W that loss cover under the policy was being  
restricted to theft only when  the policy was renewed in 2017?  
and, if it wasnt made sufficiently clear, then -
2.a) had it been made clear, what would Mr and Mrs W have done differently?;
b) was cover available elsewhere to meet their needs?;    and c) at what cost?
1. Was it made  sufficiently  clear to Mr and Mrs W that loss cover under the policy was being  
restricted to theft  only when the policy was renewed in 2017? 
An insurer is entitled to auto-renew policies  for a customer.  But in doing so, we would  expect any and 
all relevant changes to be highlighted in the renewal invitation, so that a customer  can make an 
informed choice as to whether the policy  remains  suitable.
There were  several changes  to the level of cover being offered on Mr and Mrs Ws policy, and I 
appreciate not every  change can be highlighted  on the first page of a renewal document - but key 
changes to a policy need to be prominent. 
While some of the changes  on the policy may have increased limits or provided  further cover,  in this 
case, some changes resulted in a reduction in cover, and in one area, a specific element  of cover was 
being taken away. The area where cover was being taken away was particularly significant,  as its 
likely to have impacted Mr and Mrs Ws choice as to whether or not they should  take out the policy, or 
whether it would be wise to shop elsewhere.
Ref: DRN08626334The renewal notice was a key document in Mr and Mrs W considering  whether or not to renew  their 
policy. And it was in this notice that the relevant changes shouldve been brought to their attention. 
But the key change mentioned was grouped in with all other  changes  to the cover, and wasnt 
highlighted in a significant  way. Given  the importance of this change, I dont  think it was given the 
level of prominence needed, in order for Mr and Mrs Ws attention to have been drawn  to it. And I 
think this meant they didnt  have the necessary information to hand, when deciding whether  or not this 
policy was right for them.
2. a) had it been made clear  loss cover was restricted, what  would Mr and Mrs W have done 
differently?; b) was cover  available elsewhere  to meet their needs?; and c) at what  cost?;
a)Mr and Mrs W had around £32,000  worth of valuable  items insured  away from the home for 
both accidental loss and theft before renewal. And the fact they were no longer going  to be 
covered for the accidental loss of these items  at renewal I think was significant. 
Mr and Mrs W had paid an additional premium  for this element of cover, so had they realised 
it was now being restricted to theft only, I think its more likely than not, they would not have 
proceeded to renew  this policy on these terms, and wouldve looked  to secure  cover 
elsewhere. 
b)Looking at several sources, cover for loss of valuables away from the home to cover both 
accidental loss and theft, seems to be widely available on the market  - both now, and at the 
time of Mr and Mrs Ws renewal, with several  insurers  offering cover of this nature. And 
theres nothing Ive seen to suggest that Mr and Mrs W would  not have been able to secure  
such cover at the time, had they applied. So Im satisfied they wouldve been able to find 
alternative cover elsewhere that met their needs. 
c)Several other policies  seem to have  been  available  at the time of renewal, so its difficult to 
calculate what  the exact cost of the policy wouldve been, as we dont know which policy they 
wouldve taken. But looking at Mr and Mrs Ws policy in 2016 when they were  covered for 
both theft and accidental loss of their valuables  away from the home, the cost was around 
the same as it was, after cover  was restricted. 
While I accept  this policy was no longer being sold by Avantia, Ive seen nothing  to suggest  
the cost of a similar policy providing cover for both accidental loss and theft was any higher. 
So I think its likely they wouldve been able to find suitable cover elsewhere at a similar  cost 
to what  they paid. 
So at this point Im persuaded  of the following:
-the changes in cover  to Mr and Mrs Ws valuables away from the home were not prominent  
enough to bring them to their attention, in order for them  to make an informed choice about  
renewing the policy;
-its unlikely Mr and Mrs W wouldve taken  this policy, had these changes been brought  to their 
attention more prominently,  and they wouldve more likely sought cover elsewhere;
-alternative insurance was available elsewhere  that wouldve  provided the level of cover Mr 
and Mrs W needed,  and was available at a similar  cost.
Its unclear exactly what other  policy Mr and Mrs W wouldve taken had the changes in cover been 
highlighted more prominently. But I think its fair to conclude that such  a policy wouldve  covered their 
valuables for both theft and accidental loss. So I think Avantia should  reconsider whether a claim 
wouldve been  successful  on the policy  prior to the valuables away from home cover being 
restricted. And if it would have been, then it should compensate Mr and Mrs W for their loss as if they 
Ref: DRN08626335still had cover  for the accidental loss of those items. And if Avantia cant  agree a value with Mr and 
Mrs W for the watch, it should appoint  an independent loss adjuster to do so.
Ref: DRN0862633