K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent her money in 
2015.
background
In November 2015, 118 118 Money lent Mrs B £1,500. Mrs B agreed to repay this amount, 
with interest, over 24 months.  The monthly repayments were £119.99  and if she made  each 
payment as and when  they were due shed pay £2,879.76 in total.
Mrs B doesnt think 118 118 Money should  have  lent her the money.  She felt that proper 
checks would have  shown  she had a very high level of debt compared to her income   and 
so it shouldnt have  lent.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She felt that the 
business had done enough to check Mrs Bs circumstances before it lent  and these checks 
didnt reveal anything that meant  it shouldnt have  lent or meant that it should have carried  
out further checks.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said that her credit file would  have shown  she was in arrears on her 
mortgage  and she pointed out that the report the business relied on showed  shed in fact 
been in arrears for two years.
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and 
standards; codes  of practice; and what I consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case, the relevant  rules were set out in Consumer Credit  sourcebook  which can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook.
118 118 Money was entering a regulated credit agreement. This means it needed to carry 
out an assessment  of Mrs Bs creditworthiness.
In particular, the rules  said that 118 118 Money had to consider the potential  for the 
commitments under  the new agreement to adversely impact Mrs Bs financial situation, 
taking into account  the information  of which it was aware at the time the agreement was 
made. It also had to consider the ability of Mrs B to make the repayments  as they fell due 
over the life of the agreement. 
The specific  checks 118 118 Money needed to carry out had to be reasonable and 
proportionate in the particular circumstances of the lending  decision. This might include 
factors such  as the type of credit, the amount and cost of the credit and the circumstances of 
the customer.
Ref: DRN09746242This assessment isnt limited just to whether  Mrs B can repay the credit.  118 118 Money 
needed to assess  Mrs Bs ability to meet the repayments under this new loan in a 
sustainable manner   without incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. This meant being able to make the repayments on time while 
meeting other reasonable commitments,  and without having to borrow to meet  the 
repayments. The payments also needed to be made  out of income and savings without 
having to sell her assets.
Ive kept that in mind while looking at Mrs Bs complaint.  
In this case, I think the main things I need to consider are:
Did 118 118 Money complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mrs B would be able to repay  this new loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mrs B 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in any other way?
Given what Ive said above, Id expect reasonable checks to be more thorough: 
The lower the customers income, as it might be harder to the loan repayments from 
a lower income;
The higher  the amount due to be repaid   as it might be more difficult to make a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income;
The longer  the term of the loan  as the total cost of credit  is likely to be greater and 
the customer needs to make  the payments for a longer period;
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should have been for a given loan application   such as indications of borrower  vulnerability  
and foreseeable  changes  in future  circumstances.  Ive thought  about the relevant factors 
when looking at this complaint.
118 118 Money has sent us records showing the information Mrs B entered  as part of her 
application. I see that Mrs B said she was employed, earning  £980 a month. It appears 
118 118 Money asked Mrs B about  her monthly  outgoings. I see she told 118 118 Money  
she wasnt paying anything towards  housing, council  tax or utilities;  she had no other  loans, 
and she wasnt paying anything towards  maintenance or childcare.  But she did say she was 
paying £100 a month  towards  food,  £20 towards credit cards, and £25 towards insurance. In 
summary, Mrs B said she earned £980,  and that her monthly expenses  were £145. Based 
on this, she earned considerably more than she spent.
But, given the amount  of the loan and how long Mrs B would pay it for, I dont think it was 
enough for 118 118 Money to rely solely on what Mrs B had said about these matters. And I 
think parts  of what Mrs B had said were questionable. Not least, she said her residential 
status was renting (unfurnished), yet she said she had no expenditure on housing,  council 
tax, or utilities. Her outgoings also seem low given she mentioned two dependents  in her 
application. 
So I think it was important  that 118 118 Money  take further steps to verify what  Mrs B had 
said. 118 118 Money says it did this by getting a report  from a credit reference  agency. 
Ref: DRN09746243Ive looked at the information shown in this report.  I see Mrs B had three  open  accounts. She 
owed £1,623 towards two credit cards, out of total credit limits  of £2,150.  And she owed 
£592 on a mail order  account, which had a limit of £800. Alongside this, Mrs B had two 
current accounts with no overdraft facilities, and an account with a telecoms supplier. 
I recognise that there were some indications  in this report that Mrs B may sometimes have 
spent more than her income. I can see £210  in cash advances  on credit  cards over the prior 
twelve months and one of her bank accounts appears to have gone  overdrawn in August 
2015. Mrs B also said in her loan application  that she paid £20 a month to her credit  cards,  
but the credit search showed she was sometimes paying more:  around £70 to £100  a month.
But having  said all this, Mrs B doesnt appear to have been  having difficulties making her 
payments towards  her existing commitments  when  they were due. The report  shows  no 
other open loans,  and shows  that Mrs B had been making her payments on time. 
I acknowledge that the report also showed  a number of closed accounts  and these 
suggested that around a year earlier, Mrs B had been in serious financial difficulties. In 
particular, I see there  was a mortgage  which the report said had closed in January 2015 
after that lender  had accepted a part settlement of what Mrs B owed.  It appears  that account  
had been in arrears  for over two years.  I also see that the report shows that just a few 
months before that, in March 2014,  Mrs B had settled two home credit accounts  that had 
both been in arrears  for at least 16 months. But I also see that these accounts  were 
recorded on the credit file as settled with a zero balance. So while  Mrs B had been in 
financial difficulties, the credit report also suggested these difficulties were now behind  her.
Mrs B says this wasnt right. She says that when she part-settled the mortgage there was a 
shortfall of around  £25,000 that she still needed to repay  and that she still owed when  she 
took out this new loan.  I dont doubt  what Mrs B has said about this. But this shortfall wasnt 
mentioned on the credit  report. And Mrs B doesnt  appear to have mentioned any payments 
towards this debt when  she made her application for this loan. I cant hold 118 118 Money 
responsible for the information provided to the credit reference  agencies by other  financial 
businesses.  So I dont  think  118 118 Money should reasonably have been aware of the 
amount Mrs B says was still owed on her mortgage.
Thinking about  all the above, the credit file seems to confirm Mrs Bs statement in the 
application that she wasnt paying anything  towards other loans. And whilst the credit card 
payments were higher, they werent unreasonably different from what  Mrs B had declared.  
For these reasons, I think that the checks 118 118 Money to give it a picture of Mrs Bs other 
debt commitments  were reasonable and proportionate. 
Turning to the other information shown in the application, I cant  see whether 118 118 Money  
took steps to verify Mrs Bs income.  That said, the income of £980  is consistent with what 
this service has been told about  Mrs Bs income on other occasions. And while  Ive 
mentioned above  my concerns about what Mrs B told 118 118 Money  about  her other 
outgoings, including her contributions to household bills and expenses,  Mrs B has told us 
that she cannot now remember what she contributed to household bills. And she doesnt 
have any bank statements from that period.
I accept think its possible that further checks might  have  revealed that Mrs B was paying 
more towards her household bills and general outgoings than she mentioned in her loan 
application. 
Ref: DRN09746244But, given the limited information available,  Im not persuaded that further checks would 
have shown that this new loan at £119.99  a month was unaffordable. Based on what  Mrs B 
earned and the financial  commitments shown on her application and credit report, I think  
shed have been left with over £700  a month  which she could have used for other things, 
including paying  for this loan. 
According to the credit  report and what Mrs B said in her loan application,  this was Mrs Bs 
only repayment loan,  and her first with 118 118 Money. And, although shed had some past 
financial difficulties, her existing credit commitments were being repaid  in time, So I dont  
think it was unreasonable for 118 118 Money to lend. Im not persuaded these new 
payments were unaffordable.
Finally, Ive thought  about whether 118 118 Money did anything else wrong.  Nothing  Ive 
seen suggests  that 118 118 Money  treated Mrs B unfairly in any other way.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint, and dont think  any redress  is due.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0974624