K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his business,  which Ill call P, that National Westminster Bank 
Plc delayed  in removing a second  signatory from Ps account, which resulted in a loss of 
funds. 
background
Mr A and another were both signatories  to Ps business banking  account. The mandate  was 
only one to sign. On 9 August 2018,  Mr A contacted  NatWest to remove the other  party from 
the account as he had withdrawn £3,000  without  Mr As knowledge. Mr A asked  for the 
account to be frozen,  but NatWest said it couldnt  do that but it would send  out forms to 
remove the other party. On the same day Mr A removed the other party  as a company 
director. 
Mr A completed and signed the form on 10 August 2018. On 17 August 2018, NatWest  
realised it didnt have  all the forms it needed  and sent Mr A the form to remove a party  on 21 
August 2018.  Mr A signed  and returned  this form in branch  on 23 August 2018  and the form 
was sent for processing. On 24 August 2018  £21,000 was removed from the account  by the 
other party. 
The forms were finally processed  but by that time, money had been  withdrawn from the 
account. And so Mr A complained. NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. Although it said 
there were delays in processing the request and that it didnt send him the right forms 
initially, this was a dispute between the directors and existing mandates  continued until the 
requisite forms were received. 
Not happy with that P asked us to look into the matter. When  sending  in its file, NatWest  said 
it believed it did actually  send all the forms needed  for removal  on 9 August 2018. Our 
investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think NatWest  had 
processed the request quick enough  and that it should have placed a marker on the account 
to stop transactions. 
NatWest asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It said it wouldnt place a no 
operations marker  on a limited company account  and so there  was nothing else it could have 
done other than send  the forms for processing. It said the transactions  were authorised  as 
the person withdrawing the funds  was an authorised signatory at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
explain why below. 
NatWest was on notice  the other party had removed funds from the account without 
permission when Mr A told it on 9 August 2018  and it knew Mr A didnt  want them  to have 
access to the account. I accept it has a process  in place  for the removal of a signatory to an 
account that is followed, including  the completion  and processing of forms. But I dont accept  
its insistence that it cannot suspend or freeze an limited company account.  I do accept that 
in some situations this may cause cash flow problems, but so might  the withdrawal of large  
sums of money. And in his call this was something Mr A requested.  
Ref: DRN02509852But even if I accept that was something  NatWest shouldnt have done  (which I dont), there  
were steps  it could have  taken to prevent the withdrawals. Firstly,  I note its sure it sent the 
correct forms  to Mr A initially. But that contradicts the information in its final response.  Ive 
also noted that although it processed  the initial  form on 17 August 2018, it didnt send out the 
other form it needed until 21 August  four days later. This delay matters as the withdrawal 
took place the day after Mr A had returned  all the necessary  forms to remove the other party.  
But more  importantly, as NatWest was on notice funds had already been removed from the 
account without  permission, it could simply have temporarily set the mandate for both to 
sign. That would have  prevented the other  party withdrawing money  from the account 
without Mr A also agreeing to that  and leaving the business able to operate  the account. 
So I dont  agree that NatWest did all it could.  And all of these are the type of steps we would  
expect a bank  to take when its on notice that a signatory is being removed or there is a 
dispute between  parties. Because it didnt  take those steps the other  party was able to 
withdraw £21,000. 
How Natwest need  to put this right
As I find NatWest has done something wrong I require  it to put this matter right by:
Reimbursing P £21,000 that was withdrawn from the account. 
Add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to compensate P as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0250985