K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Sabre Insurance Company Limited  wrongly settled a claim 
against their motor insurance policy after an accident. 
background
Mrs L says she had just entered  a roundabout when  she saw a car approaching the 
roundabout from her right, at excessive speed.  Mrs L says she stopped  her car, but the other 
driver didnt stop in time,  so her car scraped  across  the bumper of Mrs Ls car and dragged  
some trim across  the grille. Mrs L says the other car only had minimal scuffing to its wing.
The other drivers insurer said Mrs L was to blame for the accident. It told Sabre  that the 
other driver claimed her car was already established  on the roundabout. She said she had 
right of way and that Mrs L drove  into her path. Sabre asked Mrs L for her version of events. 
It then asked an independent engineer to look at images of the damage to both cars. He said 
it was consistent  with the other drivers version  of events.  He confirmed that the other car 
was a total loss, so Sabre paid the other  insurer the £997 it had asked for.
Mr and Mrs L said Mrs L wasnt to blame  for the accident. They  disputed  the sum Sabre had 
paid the other insurer, as they thought the damage  to the other  car was minimal. And they 
were shocked that the other  driver had made a claim for personal injury,  given  the minor 
nature of the accident.  
One of our investigators  reviewed the evidence and concluded that Sabre had acted 
reasonably. He said cars on a roundabout have to give way to traffic  coming  from the right. 
He said there was no proof that the other  driver sped onto it. He noted that the independent 
engineer thought the damage was in line with the other drivers account.  He said the 
independent engineer agreed with the other  insurers engineer  that the car was a total loss. 
The investigator noted that the personal  injury claim was ongoing, but said he wouldnt 
expect Sabre to settle  it unless  the other driver  provided medical  evidence.
Mr and Mrs L asked for a review of their complaint by an ombudsman.      
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
The policy entitles Sabre  to settle any claim as it sees  fit  but it must  act reasonably in 
doing so. That means taking into account  all the available evidence and reaching a fair 
conclusion. I think Sabre  did that in this case.
Mrs Ls version of events may be correct, but she cant show  that her car was already on the 
roundabout when the other drivers  car entered it. The other driver was coming from her 
right, and Mr L said she sped onto the roundabout as though  she had right of way. But I think  
she did have right of way, as long as there  was no traffic approaching from her right.  
As theres  no independent  evidence that Mrs L was on the roundabout before the other 
driver entered it, I think Sabre acted reasonably in deciding to settle  the claim. The only 
other option would  have  been to defend it. Sabre told Mr and Mrs L that the onus would then 
have been on it to show that the other driver  was negligent. It said it couldnt  do that. 
Ref: DRN08744832Sabre got the view of an independent engineer before making  its decision.  Mr L says the 
engineers view is wrong. Mr L asked us to look closely at the images of the damage to both 
cars. He says they show that Mrs L had stopped her car when the other  car scraped  across 
it  not that Mrs Ls car collided with the other  car. I can see why Mr L thinks  the images  
show that the other car scraped along Mrs Ls vehicle. In my opinion,  the damage  doesnt 
seem to show that Mrs L drove into the side of the other drivers car.
But Sabres notes  show that its advisor  told Mr L that even  if Mrs Ls car had come  to a halt, 
that didnt mean she hadnt pulled out into the path of the other car. And in its final response 
letter, Sabre said that even if Mrs Ls car was stationary, it was still in the path of a vehicle 
that had right of way. It said the other driver  wasnt able to stop in time to avoid contact 
between the cars. I think it was reasonable for Sabre to conclude that it couldnt show  the 
other driver was negligent, so it had to settle  the claim.
The sum Sabre  paid wasnt to repair the damage on the other car. The other  insurers  
engineer decided to write  it off. Usually thats done  when the cost of repairs is high 
compared to the value  of the car. So the same  amount of accident damage on a car that was 
worth more may have  been repaired for less. Sabres  engineer  agreed that the car would be 
a write-off. Having  a fault claim  is likely  to affect Mr and Mrs Ls insurance  premiums, but the 
amount paid on the claim isnt likely to do so. I think it was fair for Sabre to pay the sum 
required once liability was accepted and it had its engineers view.  
In my view its understandable for Mr and Mrs L to be concerned  about  a personal injury  
claim having been made, given that the accident was relatively minor and low-speed. But 
insurers normally require medical  evidence in support of an injury.  Sabre says the claims 
still open pending the receipt of such evidence. 
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs L have found  it difficult to accept Sabres decisions,  but taking 
everything into account, I think it acted reasonably, so I cant uphold their complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under Financial  Ombudsman  Service 
rules, I must ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject  my decision before 28 March 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0874483