K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that IG Index  Limited ("IG Index")  manipulated  the live trading platform as 
he'd been  winning on the demo account  while losing on the live one. He also complains that 
he never received  the results of his appropriate assessment in writing  and his account went 
negative multiple  times.
background
Mr E held a Spread  Betting account  with IG Index from  2011 till recently. Over this time,  he
traded frequently on the account with funds obtained from various sources  including  his bank 
and credit card accounts. Unfortunately,  he lost a lot of money while trading through IG
Index's platform,  which has had a severe impact  on him.
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld, noting:
The appropriateness test, as set out by the FCA in its COBS  rules  (COBS 10),  
requires that sufficient information be obtained by the firm "to determine whether the 
client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks 
involved..."
What this means is that IG Index had to assess Mr E's appropriateness to trade on 
its platform based on the information  he provided to them.  This was to determine 
whether he had sufficient  knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved 
in the service or products offered 
The questions asked  by IG Index and the responses given by Mr E showed that he'd 
traded in shares and bonds,  exchange-traded derivatives and over-the-counter 
derivatives. He said he had traded these instruments frequently
On the basis of those  answers, she felt it was reasonable for IG index to conclude  
that a spread betting account  was appropriate for him
Shed  not seen  any evidence to suggest  that the trading platform  had been 
manipulated. The evidence shows that Mr E entered negative  balance because  he'd 
fallen below his margin requirement
Mr E received texts,  emails and calls from IG Index to deposit more funds into his 
account. The terms and conditions  of his account state, "If there  is any shortfall 
between your account balance (taking into account P&L)  falling below your total 
Initial Margin requirement, you will be required to deposit  additional funds  into your 
account
She hadnt seen  any instances where  the stop-losses werent executed correctly,  
saying that stop-losses  can be affected in much  the same way as prices  are when 
there is rapid movement  in the market; a common risk of this type of trading. But IG 
Index said that if Mr E indicates any particular date that the alleged crash  prevented  
him from withdrawing funds happened, they would  look into this further
The account was based on an execution-only service and IG held no responsibility 
for advising on his trading, monitoring his trading or managing  his trading. He had 
sole responsibility in these respects,  including responsibility for awareness and 
management of his exposure to risks
Overall, she was satisfied that Mr E was warned about the high trading risks at the 
outset. So she didnt  think that IG Index was obliged to provide risk management for 
his individual trades or account
Demo accounts are generally used by investors who want to learn  about the 
mechanics of trading in a risk-free  environment. It allows  them to familiarize  
themselves with the platform  and is not meant to be used as a reflection of a real live 
Ref: DRN07003832platform. This is outlined  in the terms and conditions where  it explains  the key 
differences between  trading a demo and live account
Mr E did not agree,  and said:
He didnt consider  the appropriateness  test was adequate or that his responses 
warranted IG agreeing  he could  undertake spread betting
He did not have sufficient knowledge of the trading  platform  and IG misled him
As it had now closed his account he cannot access  key documents including  the 
results of the appropriateness  test
He has asked it for more information  but it has ignored these requests; so he cannot 
provide any additional  evidence to this service
IG manipulated the markets as third party evidence demonstrates   and hed 
supplied examples of this
Every time he tried to take a profit the system  magically crashed and when it 
rebooted he was in loss
Mr E also reiterated a number of his original criticisms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
her lengthy  assessment of the case and her responses to Mr Es detailed concerns.
Overall, I simply do not share Mr Es view about  IGs responsibilities to would-be  customers.  
Firstly, it is clearly offering an execution-only service and does not advise customers  as to 
whether this is a suitable activity given their financial circumstances and objectives.
Secondly, the main page of its website provides a very detailed risk warning, pointing out 
that this is a highly risky form of betting, that 68% of retail clients  lose money using its 
services and that even  professional clients are likely to lose money via this form of financial 
betting.
Thirdly, its page  offering  a demo  account repeats these risks in detail and spells  out that a 
demo account is very different  to a real account,  and lists these key differences.
This is the context in which  it carries  out a basic appropriateness test for new clients,  a test 
which is reliant on the client answering  questions accurately and then making  an informed 
decision for themselves  as to whether they want to undertake this activity.
Ive also seen no evidence that IG manipulated trading  in the way Mr E alleges. The way its 
platform operates, IG makes money whichever way the underlying market for particular 
assets move, and every move will lead to gains or losses  for some of its clients  depending 
on their spreads and stop-losses. So there is no logical  reason why it would either seek to 
manipulate the market  (even if this were  possible) or do so specifically to Mr Es 
disadvantage.
Ref: DRN07003833I acknowledge that some third party websites feature former clients making  similar complaint 
points to Mr E (although  these also feature clients who are satisfied with IGs service). This, 
however, does not constitute persuasive evidence that IG is operating unfairly, merely that it 
has some  dissatisfied clients, for whatever reason.
I have considered Mr Es additional points, including all those  listed  his email  of 15 
December 2019,  but do not believe there  is sufficient evidence to conclude that IG did 
anything wrong. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0700383