K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that, despite  repeated requests, The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited 
failed to provide  a response to his concerns  about his projected  pay-out. He also said that 
the adviser who sold him the policy told him he would receive a considerably higher maturity 
sum.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 29 January 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
The Pru disagreed with my provisional decision, saying it did not agree with my interpretation  
of events or my proposal to increase the compensation to £500. It said:
Mr Ts policy met the criteria of its fast track  pay-out process, meaning it did not 
need to get his signed authority to pay the money
Mr T had contacted it in January 2018  to enquire about  the bonuses  and the inherited  
estate and it accepts  its subsequent  replies  did not address all his concerns
Mr T did not contact it again till April but it accepts  its response in May still did not 
deal with his concerns
He then did not raise  a formal complaint till the end of July, and it did not receive this 
until the date of the pay-out
So there were lengthy gaps  between his letters
As he asked for the pay-out to be delayed until his concerns had been addressed it 
recalled the cheque which had already been issued
It never led him to believe that accepting the money would prevent him from 
continuing with his complaint
It provided a detailed reply on 24 September and paid him £150 in lieu of its failures
As it had not heard  from Mr T it issued  a reminder letter on 18 October and included  
a form for him to sign. He subsequently returned  this unsigned saying  he was happy  
to accept the money but only in full and final settlement. (It also outlined  what 
happened subsequently)
Given the above, it doesnt accept  it should be responsible for the delay following 24 
September
It also doesnt accept  it was solely responsible for Mr T not accepting  the money  on 
its due date. It arranged to pay it via its Fast Track system and he rejected it
Mr T only pursued his concerns after significant  gaps from its responses
My proposed compensation of £350 is equivalent to paying 8% interest  from the due 
maturity date to end of November. This is not fair or reasonable
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont disagree with several of the Prus  recent  arguments or dispute, broadly-speaking, its 
time-line but I think it ignores a number of the points I made in my provisional decision.
It acknowledges it didnt  deal satisfactorily  with Mr Ts concerns in any of the 
correspondence prior to the pay-out date. While it refers to Mr T leaving lengthy gaps 
Ref: DRN08024942between pursuing  his concerns, Mr T insisted he also rang the Pru on other  occasions  to 
chase things. This seems  likely.
While it admits that its letters in late January and June failed to respond to Mr T properly, it 
ignores its response  of 11 January  which also completely  ignored  his questions about  the 
inherited estate. So for a period of six months  it consistently ignored his concerns and 
legitimate questions raised in a least three letters/emails and probably via phone calls as 
well. Given this, I do not accept its view that Mr T should be partially responsible for not 
pursuing matters more promptly.
This is why I felt it was entirely understandable that Mr T did not accept the money at that 
due pay-out date.  He had just put in a formal complaint  and was right to expect the Pru to 
address this complaint and the underlying  issues hed been trying  to get answers to for 
seven months. I have seen no evidence that it told him by that point that he could accept the 
pay-out and still pursue his complaint/concerns.  It said this in its late September  letter.
This is why I said Mr T should be compensated  solely for the loss of interest between  1 
August 2018 and the receipt  of this letter in late September. I explicitly said that Mr T ought  
reasonably to have  agreed to the pay-out  after receiving the Prus  reassurance that this 
wouldnt affect his ability to bring a complaint  in its late September letter.  I did not base my 
proposed compensation on loss of interest  to end of November.
I am still satisfied that the Pru should pay compensation roughly based on Mr Ts notional 
loss of use of his pay-out sum from 1 August to the date he received the 24 September  letter  
i.e. close  to eight  weeks.  If the Pru had acted fairly I believe it should have offered 8% 
simple interest, covering  this period, in its 24 September letter.  
As I said in my provisional decision this seems to me to be an unnecessarily  complex 
calculation given the modest sum involved But as Mr Ts pay-out was just under £20,000 I 
think would  come to more than £200.  As the Pru did not pay this sum, I believe it ought in 
theory pay 8% interest on this sum as well to the date this complaint is settled which adds 
another modest amount.  
But, as I explained  in my provisional decision,  my recommended  additional sum of £350 was 
also included a sum designed  to reflect the very significant upset the Prus failures have had 
on Mr T. So this sum was not entirely based on loss of interest.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  The Prudential Assurance Company Limited  to pay Mr T 
£350 in addition to its early payment  of £150.  If that payment has yet to be made it must also 
do this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08024943provisional decision
complaint
Mr T complains that despite  repeated requests The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  failed to 
provide a response to his concerns about his projected pay-out. He also said that the adviser who 
sold him the policy told him that he would  receive  a considerably higher maturity  sum.
background
An adjudicator at this service initially did not feel the complaint should  be upheld.
He said the Pru had already  apologised for its initial  failure to respond to all of Mr Ts points and had 
offered £150  in lieu of this, an amount  he thought was fair and reasonable. He was also satisfied that 
the Pru had paid the correct amount on maturity and that the original documentation made  clear that 
bonuses or other  additional  sums were  not guaranteed.  He quoted from the policy document in 
support of this. At the same time he noted that Mr T had received  a number of a number of bonuses  
over the years and a healthy final bonus.
He noted that Mr T had yet to accept  the maturity sum while his complaint was being  considered. But, 
in his view, the Pru had not made  a mistake  when calculating the maturity  sum so he did not believe it 
needed to pay 8% interest on this sum.
Mr T did not agree,  and said:
Re the additional final bonus, the letter  says you "may"  be entitled to further bonuses  on 
maturity depending on the performance of the policy and how long it runs. Hed had many 
chairmans reports telling him what a great year it had been for the fund.
The policy  also ran for the full 25 years.  What  else would have needed to happen  to warrant 
the additional bonus?
He still hasnt been  told what the current situation is with the money in the inherited estate.  
Has any of it been  added to the policy at maturity or not? Does the Prudential not have to give 
an answer to this?  They have regularly  failed to provide him with any details. Can they just 
refuse to answer questions from policyholders?
If they havent  given this service any details about  the policy, how well its done, how they 
arrived at the maturity value, how much of it is from the inherited estate etc. how can we 
come to the conclusion that theyve paid the correct amount on maturity?
The sum assured  plus his £9,000 premiums  come  to just under £17,000. The sum assured 
would be paid out regardless, even if he died the week after taking out the policy.  So for the 
privilege of paying in to the plan for 25 years theyre only really  added less than £2,500 
despite the yearly  reports telling  him how well the fund was doing. Doesnt sound like much of 
a good deal
Yet again  hes had to jump through hoops to get any kind of satisfaction  from Prudential.  He 
posted back  the acceptance  form and a covering letter asking  it to pay the maturity sum into 
his bank  account.  A member of staff took his call on 31 October  2018 and said Prudential had 
received his letter  on 22 October and didnt know why the money  had not been paid but that it 
would be in his account the next day and that he would ring/text to confirm this
The money wasnt paid into his account and no call/text arrived. He phoned again on 6 
November, and the call handler said she couldnt see any reason  why it had not been  paid 
and that she would mark it as urgent.  She also said that someone  would phone  before close 
of business on 8 November to update him which didnt happen
The adjudicator then felt the Pru should pay 8% interest on the maturity sum from the date it should 
have been paid to the date of settlement  of the compliant  given its obvious failures to deal with things 
promptly.
It disagreed, saying:
Ref: DRN08024944Mr Ts letter dated 8 November 2018 was received  on 12 November
It originally  received  Mr Ts unsigned maturity claim form on 22 October  2018, which  referred 
to his covering  letter dated 19 October.  In this he referred to having  been informed  that it 
needed to pay him interest at the rate of 8%, which is contrary to the adjudicators original  
assessment letter
He also stated  that he was unable  to sign the maturity form in full and final settlement as he 
was not prepared to sign away any rights to future payments
In view of this, it referred the matter  to its legal/technical department for clarification  of the 
implications of what hed said. Payment has now been made and Mr T has been advised  of 
this. The payment included gratuitous interest at the prevailing Bank of England rate and not 
8%. This is because the delay in payment was due to Mr Ts unsigned claim  form and 
covering letter
Mr T replied, saying:
He didnt  see how they could have paid the money  to his bank without first having received a 
completed acceptance form. This would not be possible as they never  sent a form to 
complete
He got a letter,  just telling him the money would  be paid the following Wednesday. This left 
him virtually no time to ask any questions about,  or get a reply to, any concerns he may have 
had about the maturity amount.  Do the acceptance letters not say that no money  can be paid 
out until the customer  signs  the payment  off as full and final settlement?
The point is that they had possession  of his money for a period of time,  mainly due to their 
unwillingness to answer any previous queries,  which  pretty much  left him with no choice other 
than to refuse to sign
The Pru replied, saying it had sufficient detail  to be able to make the maturity  payment direct into Mr 
Ts bank account without the need for a maturity  claim  for to be completed.  It has streamlined some  of 
its processes to enable this to happen so that customers  to receive their maturity payments on time. 
Mr T effectively rejected  the payment and it was then his specific  instruction not to pay it.
During this time it had been providing  Mr T with responses to his enquiry and complaint points and so 
this would  not have precluded him from receiving the payment.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise there have been a large number  of points made by both parties  and considerable 
exchanges about these.  But overall  I am satisfied this complaint revolves  around three key issues 
which should determine its merits.
Is their persuasive  evidence to indicate that the Pru paid out the wrong maturity sum, ignoring  or 
contradicting promises it had made in its policy documents? Did it fail to respond to Mr Ts initial and 
follow-up concerns promptly and adequately?  And to what extent is it responsible for his refusal  to 
accept the maturity  pay-out earlier?
On the first point I do not believe there  is sufficient, persuasive evidence to conclude that it has done 
anything wrong. In common with other providers of these types of policies, bonuses are largely not 
guaranteed and dependent  on a range  of factors, only one of which is investment returns.
So there is no contradiction  between  statements from the Pru saying that it had enjoyed a good year 
and the fact that bonuses might still prove in the long run far lower than original projections. 
Investment returns have  fallen steadily, and at times dramatically, over the lifetime of this policy  so 
few if any investment or insurance policies  taken out at that time are now paying  the sort of maturity 
sums originally projected.
Ref: DRN08024945Crucially, I do not believe  the documents guarantee the sort of returns  Mr T claims he was promised 
or expected.
Further, his premiums  paid for the ongoing monthly cost of life insurance so one cannot reasonably 
add the guaranteed sum assured and the cost of all those  premiums as a basis for assessing what 
level of maturity pay-out  one ought to receive.
It is not for this service  to seek to investigate a business  operation of a fund, its investment decisions  
or performance so I am not in a position to assess how it decided upon bonuses or Mr Ts final 
maturity pay-out. But I have seen nothing to suggest  it has not operated in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
In this context I do not agree  that it needed to provide any further information  about  the inherited  
estate or other  issues beyond  its response of 24 September. Nor do I think this service ought to look 
into these issues further.
On the second issue, I think Mr Ts questions of January 2018 were understandable  and perfectly 
reasonable. The Pru did not address these. This, in my view,  fully warrants him not simply accepting  
the maturity pay-out at that point or when asked to do so in July but instead continuing to pursue the 
Pru for answers.  I do not think the Pru offered  a reasonable and sufficient response until 24 
September 2018.
In the meantime the maturity payment was due to be made on 1 August 2018.  This did not happen for 
the reasons previously discussed. So broadly speaking I feel the Pru should  be responsible for paying 
8% interest  to cover this period (of approximately  seven weeks). After  this point I do not feel it would 
be fair to require it to pay the court-approved compensatory rate, particularly given current  interest 
rates. This is because I feel its letter  of 24 September did provide Mr T with sufficient responses to his 
understanding queries.  In my view,  he was then in a position to choose to take the maturity sum even 
if he wanted to pursue matters further.
As the Pru did not offer or pay 8% interest on this seven week delay I think he is also entitled to 8% 
simple interest  per annum on this sum from 24 September 2018  to the date of settlement of this 
complaint. At the same  time the Pru has paid interest at the Bank of England  rate on the entire  sum to 
the date it made this offer. This makes any redress very complicated and, in my view, unnecessarily 
so.
Instead, having considered the complaint overall,  I currently believe the Pru should pay Mr T an 
additional £350 in lieu of its failures (in addition to the £150  previously offered/paid). This sum 
includes compensation for the fact that, from what Ive read, the Pru could have handled Mr Ts recent 
pay-out request better although I accept  a number  of its points  about why this proved complicated, 
and Mr Ts partial  responsibility for this.
Finally, I note that the adjudicator told Mr T he would  come  back to him further about  his most recent 
comments but I am satisfied that I have sufficient evidence to make a fair and reasonable decision 
about this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct The Prudential Assurance Company
Limited to pay compensation as outlined  above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0802494