K820x#14complaint
Mr G had a policy with Southern Rock Insurance  Company Limited to cover  him for private 
hire. He complains that it wouldnt  give him a bespoke letter  he needed confirming the cover. 
background
Mr Gs certificate  of insurance with Southern Rock showed he was insured  for private  hire. 
He also had a letter from his broker confirming the insurance was valid specifically for a firm 
Mr G wanted to work for. But the firm wouldnt accept these documents.  It said Mr G had to 
get a letter  directly from Southern Rock confirming the situation. 
Southern Rock didnt think that was necessary. It said it didnt have the capacity  to issue  
documents to suit specific circumstances anyway. It said if the firm wasnt willing  to accept 
valid insurance documents, any consequence of that was for the firm to deal with.
Southern Rock also explained  that initially the broker made an error in telling Mr G that the 
policy would cover him to drive for the firm. But Southern Rock  decided to honour the 
assurance the broker gave, as a gesture of goodwill. 
For the avoidance of doubt, it then liaised with the broker in setting out a letter  confirming 
that cover  from Southern  Rock was in place  for Mr G to drive for the firm. As the firm didnt 
accept the documents provided,  Mr G lost three weeks  work.  He thinks  Southern  Rock  is to 
blame for that.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Gs complaint. He thought  Southern Rock had acted 
unreasonably in not providing a letter for Mr G. He said its decision not to do so left Mr G 
seriously out of pocket.  But as he couldnt  provide clear enough evidence of his losses,  the 
investigator said Southern Rock should only pay Mr G £200 for inconvenience. Mr G wasnt 
happy with that. Southern Rock said the insurance certificate should have been enough to 
show that Mr G had valid insurance. It said an underwriting manager from Southern Rock 
had contacted the firm to confirm that cover  would be honoured. And it asked for a review  of 
the complaint  by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  Mr Gs complaint. I said I could see why the 
firm might have  concerns if Mr G only had the insurance certificate. As Southern  Rock  
doesnt normally insure drivers to work for the firm, I thought it would have been reasonable 
for it to query that. But I thought the letter from the broker was very clear.  
The brokers  commercial manager  confirmed in the letter that it had made an error in issuing 
the policy - but that Southern Rock had agreed  to cover Mr G for the whole policy  year. The 
letter said that at renewal,  the broker would look for a policy with another  insurer. I noted  that 
the brokers commercial manager also spoke directly to the firms  compliance  team.
I said it wasnt clear  to me why the firm didnt find the insurance certificate - plus the bespoke 
letter and the personal contact by from the brokers commercial manager   sufficient. 
Southern Rock doesnt normally issue correspondence  it relies on the broker  for that. I 
didnt see the need for it to issue a bespoke  letter  setting out the same facts.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Southern Rock accepted them.  
Mr G said that as the broker mis-sold him the policy, hed lost trust in it. So the insurer  
Ref: DRN00290752needed to confirm the cover. He said it should have done that for him, not for the firm he 
worked for. He queried why the insurer didnt want to produce a single piece of paper 
confirming the cover. Mr G said he not only lost income, but also a years no claims discount 
(NCD) and had to pay more for his replacement policy. And he said the broker  had put him 
on the road without  valid invalid  insurance  for three  months until it realised  its mistake.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  hes said, Mr G is very unhappy about the brokers  actions, which I think  is 
understandable. But this complaint is limited  to the actions of Southern  Rock.  
I cant speculate about what  might have happened had Mr G needed  to make a claim prior to 
the broker contacting Southern Rock about its error.  Fortunately, nothing happened during 
that time.  And had it done,  I dont think Southern  Rock could have been held responsible. 
I think Southern  Rock acted more than reasonably  when the broker  informed it of the error.  
Southern Rock didnt have to agree to honour the policies the broker had issued, but it 
agreed to provide cover for the whole of the policy year. The file notes show  that it did so on 
the understanding that the broker would issue documents as necessary  and deal with any 
problems arising  from its error.   
Based on the available details, I dont think Mr G lost out on a years NCD. The policy  with 
Southern Rock was valid until he cancelled it and started a new one. The fact that Mr G 
didnt work  for several weeks makes no difference to the NCD.  
I think the major issue is whether it was reasonable for Southern  Rock  not to issue a letter  
confirming what the broker  had already confirmed on its behalf. Southern Rock relies  on the 
broker to issue documents apart from its own standard letters. It had agreed the wording the 
broker used in the letter of assurance  it gave to Mr G. And it wouldnt have been a matter of 
simply providing another letter  for Mr G. Its clear from the file notes that other drivers were 
affected by the brokers  error. The broker dealt with them on a case  by case basis,  and I 
think Southern  Rock would have had to do the same.  So it would have had to create 
bespoke letters for other  drivers due to the brokers error on an unknown number of policies.   
I dont think it was reasonable  for Mr G (or the firm he worked for) not to accept the details 
the broker provided to prove Mr G was insured. The broker said that a systems error  had 
caused the initial problem. There was no reason to suppose that the clear assurance  in a 
bespoke letter it produced on behalf  of Southern  Rock was an error. I cant see why it 
shouldnt have been relied  on  especially as the brokers commercial manager had also 
spoken to the firms head of compliance and given a personal assurance. Southern  Rock  
was aware of the steps that had been taken.  So I remain of the view that it wasnt  
unreasonable for it not to do anything  further.  Had the initial  problem been caused  by 
Southern Rock, I may have come to a different conclusion.  
 
I appreciate that Mr G lost several weeks income as a result of the firm not allowing him to 
work for it. Thats a significant financial loss, so I greatly sympathise with the position he 
found himself in. But having taken  everything into account, as I dont think Southern Rock 
acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Gs complaint.    
Ref: DRN00290753my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0029075