K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C have said they believe they may have made a successful claim on the PPI for 
12 months. Halifax has confirmed Mr and Mrs C did make a successful claim on the PPI.
Mr and Mrs C bought  the PPI at a meeting in 2009,  shortly after taking a further advance  on 
their mortgage. The policy covered  Mr C for unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. Halifax says the policy at the start cost £24.12 a month and for a successful claim  
offered to pay £618.45 a month, to help Mr and Mrs C with their mortgage-related costs.
Mr C was employed at the time of sale as a factory worker and had been there 10 years. 
Hes told us of missing  many months of work  due to injuries suffered around  20 years before 
the sale. Hes told us he was entitled  to less than six but at least three  months full pay for 
redundancy. Mr and Mrs C have told us they also had savings they couldve used to pay the 
mortgage if Mr C couldnt work. Mrs C had stopped work years earlier due to a health issue. 
Halifax has sent evidence  to show the mortgage account became regulated in 2008  when 
Mr and Mrs C took a further advance. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. Ill not restate them  all here, but Ive read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs C 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; and
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN04810312taken the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage became FCA regulated in 2008 when they took a further advance. 
This means  the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint. Its also relevant to note that there have  for some time been  codes  governing 
the sale of insurance  products such as PPI. There is much in common between the present 
statutory regulatory  regime  and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, 
the position at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN04810313The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Cs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN04810314Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs C and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. It no longer has the paperwork for this 
particular sale, but what we know of how Halifax sold PPI policies like Mr and Mrs Cs makes 
me think Halifax would usually make it clear  at the sale that the PPI was optional.
In Mr and Mrs Cs case, Halifaxs notes  from the time say Mr and Mrs C initially  didnt take 
the PPI when they took the further advance. The notes also say that when Mr and Mrs C did 
take the PPI, they followed only the recommendation for unemployment cover and turned 
down disability cover, due to cost. The policy records show  that the PPI Mr and Mrs C took 
was on Mr C and was for unemployment cover only. In my view Halifaxs notes, and the fact 
disability cover wasnt taken, add more weight to the notion that Halifax likely  made  clear  to 
Mr and Mrs C at the sale that the PPI was optional.
Mr and Mrs C havent said Halifax pressured  them  into taking the cover   but theyve said 
the PPI was just included  as part of the package  with their mortgage.  Taking  everything  into 
account, and in the light of all Ive said above,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs C knew  the 
PPI was optional  and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs C have said Halifax didnt give 
advice but Halifaxs  notes from the time suggest Halifax  did recommended  the PPI. Overall 
Im persuaded Halifax gave advice. This means Halifax  had to do more   it had to advise 
Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the PPI was appropriate  
or suitable given  their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know exactly what Halifax discussed with Mr and Mrs C. Its system notes suggest 
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the PPI was a suitable recommendation. For 
example, it asked about Mr Cs existing unemployment  cover.  But I dont know exactly  what  
was said about  this. Overall, on the balance of probabilities  Im not persuaded Halifax  did all 
it should have  done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C given 
their circumstances. So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs C had a need  for the policy. Mrs C was not in work and Mr C was the main 
earner. He was entitled to some  redundancy pay but less than a years  full pay and so 
Mr and Mrs C wouldve  still suffered  a loss of income if Mr Cs unemployment lasted for a 
longer period of time. The PPI benefit wouldve helped Mr and Mrs C in that situation.
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and the exclusions  and limitations didnt 
make the PPI unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C  nothing about  Mr Cs employment wouldve  
made it difficult for him to claim for unemployment if he lost his job.
Ref: DRN04810315-Although Mr and Mrs C say they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.  Also Halifaxs  notes about 
Mr and Mrs C taking unemployment cover   but turning down disability cover due to cost 
 appear to add weight  to the idea Mr and Mrs C took only the cover they could afford.
-Mr and Mrs C had savings theyd chosen to keep rather than to use towards  reducing  the 
mortgage amount.  By helping with mortgage-related  costs,  the policy  benefit wouldve 
helped Mr and Mrs C keep those savings  intact, or free to meet other  liabilities.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months  for each  claim,  but it still 
provided valuable  cover given Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and the loss of income 
they could suffer  were Mr C unemployed for a prolonged  period. Also,  as the policy was 
protection to help with mortgage-related  costs, I bear in mind the potential consequences 
were Mr and Mrs C to have become  unable  to repay loans secured against  their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  payments if 
Mr C were unable to work due to unemployment)  and of the approximate costs.  Ive reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs C wouldve taken the policy without 
any sense of what the it was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed to take the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs C. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave them  all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Cs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN04810316-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs C about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say, I think its unlikely  a court would find this extended to the insurer having  to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs C. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs C 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs C would have acted  differently or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. 
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs C had some interest in taking PPI. By this I 
mean when  Halifax  advised them there was a suitable product they could buy that would 
protect their mortgage payments if Mr C were unable to work because  of unemployment, 
they concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As Ive explained, Im satisfied from the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances  at the 
time of sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Ive nothing 
to show that Halifax  told Mr and Mrs C the exact  premium when they applied,  but I dont 
think they wouldve  taken  the PPI without  some idea of the approximate  cost. Also Halifaxs  
notes suggest  Mr and Mrs C considered costs  when deciding  to turn down disability cover  
but take unemployment cover. Overall,  Im not persuaded  Mr and Mrs C wouldve found the 
Ref: DRN04810317cost unacceptable  if they had been  given the exact figure during the meeting  in which  they 
agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs C would get for a 
successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Cs expectations about what the policy 
would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C hadnt  been  in work for a continuous 
period of six months (but not counting as a break  two weeks or less out of work); and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr C was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs C should the insured  risks have become a reality.  Also I havent seen anything  
to suggest Mr and Mrs C wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr C 
had been in his job for more than six months,  for example. So, I think  Mr and Mrs C still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs C any claim they made would be limited  to 12 months.  
This may have differed  from what they expected and might have hoped  for. But allowing for 
Mr Cs existing redundancy cover, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a 
policy that for unemployment would pay a benefit  to help them  meet mortgage-related costs 
for up to 12 months, would be of benefit  and help them manage the consequences if Mr C 
couldnt work in the circumstances the policy covered. The policy allowed multiple claims 
and its benefit  could help reduce outgoings at what could  be a difficult  and uncertain time if 
Mr C were unemployed, making  it less likely Mr and Mrs Cs home would be put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs C would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr C were  made  redundant. In the circumstances, I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs C wouldve taken  the policy  in any event, notwithstanding  
the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN04810318Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs C found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they wouldve been in if they 
had not bought the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they wouldve still taken it had they 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  they were buying.  So 
Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude  
Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would  put them in a better position 
than they wouldve been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr and Mrs C think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2009 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
Ref: DRN04810319think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0481031