K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y says that Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold her payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1998 Mrs Y took out a Bank of Scotland mortgage along with PPI to protect her mortgage  
monthly repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mrs Y disagrees. She 
mainly says it was never made clear to her that the policy was optional. Mrs Y also said it 
wasnt something she needed as she had other means she couldve relied  on to cover  her 
mortgage monthly repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons 
for saying  this. 
Bank of Scotland hasnt been  able to provide any documents to show  how the PPI was 
taken out. But that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mrs Y told us she 
took out the PPI during  a meeting so I think its likely thats what  happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Mrs Y has told us about the way she says Bank  of 
Scotland sold her the PPI. But what Mrs Y says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold her complaint.  It wouldnt be reasonable to expect  Mrs Y to recall exactly  what  was 
discussed at the time. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what  I think is 
most likely.  
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mrs Ys home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, 
I can see why Mrs Y mightve felt PPI was useful to have. I can completely understand why 
she mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale. On balance, I think  its likely  that 
Mrs Y decided she wanted to have  the benefits and security that PPI offered and she chose 
to buy the policy.  
As Mrs Y says she took out the policy during a meeting, Bank of Scotland looked at her 
complaint on the basis that it wouldve advised her to take out PPI. Given  the lack of 
paperwork showing how Bank  of Scotland sold Mrs Y the PPI, I think  this is the fairest way to 
assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations  on the lender. If a business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable . 
Ref: DRN05033572Mrs Y was eligible for the PPI. Bank of Scotland has provided a policy document which 
shows that it wouldve  paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of an 
accident or illness that prevented Mrs Y from working. So it provided  better  cover  than her 
sick pay entitlement as she wouldve only been  on half pay after the first 6 months  off work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of work benefits. Bearing in mind  that Mrs Y mightve 
also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled, I think 
this couldve been  a useful benefit at a difficult time.   
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs Y lost her job 
and became unexpectedly unemployed. 
And Mrs Y couldve made repeated  claims on the policy, giving  her long term protection  for 
her mortgage.
I dont know if Mrs Y wouldve  always  had savings to rely on if shed needed  to make a 
claim. 
Mrs Y mentioned having good job security. But no job can be guaranteed to be secure 
indefinitely. Having  PPI gave Mrs Y additional financial security  and meant she could be sure 
shed always be able to keep up the monthly repayments in order  to protect  her home.
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
So, looking  at Mrs Ys circumstances  at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible  some information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs Y about the policy wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the things the policy 
didnt cover. So, I dont  think  having  more information about  the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mrs Ys decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs Y when she bought  the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, Mrs Y chose to take out PPI so she appears to have been happy  to pay for 
the cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that she couldnt afford the monthly  premiums  at the 
time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  her, I think it unlikely Mrs Y wouldve made  
a different decision about taking out the policy if better information  had been  provided. On 
balance, I think shed  still have taken it out. 
So I dont  find that Mrs Y has lost out as a result  of anything Bank of Scotland  may have  
done wrong. This means  it doesnt need  to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN05033573my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0503357