K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr L says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Capital One made  it clear  that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. Mr Ls PPI was added  
after he said he wanted it during his on-line  credit card application. 
I appreciate Mr L doesnt think  he would have  made  a conscious decision to take out the PPI 
and he must  have inadvertently ticked the box thinking he had to. But Ive seen how its likely 
to have been presented to him. There was a link to click for more information about  the PPI 
and then underneath it said Please enrol me in Capital Ones  Payment Protection Scheme. 
He had to tick yes or no. I think the way it was set out made  it clear  Mr L had a choice and 
if he hadnt wanted it, he could have ticked no.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
The information Capital  One gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. I think its 
unlikely he would have  agreed to take it out without  some understanding of the cover it 
provided  namely  accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  I also think  its likely  he 
would have understood he would  have to pay something for it. And if he hadnt, when it 
showed on his monthly  statements, I would have  expected him to question this.
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if 
something went wrong. And Mr L had limited other ways to repay his credit card if he wasnt  
working, so it seems like he had a need  for the cover it provided. I appreciate his parents 
might have been able to help if he got into financial difficulties. But if hed got into financial 
difficulties because he was sick, had an accident or was made redundant, the PPI would 
mean he wouldnt have  to ask his parents for help with his credit card repayments.
Overall, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put Mr L off taking out the 
cover. This means Capital  One doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
Ref: DRN06395372But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr L also says that when he did get into financial difficulties and fell behind with his credit 
card repayments, Capital One didnt suggest  he cancel the PPI to reduce how much he 
needed to repay. Mr Ls PPI was cancelled in 2008.  Looking at his statement for the month  
after the PPI was cancelled, it doesnt  seem that he was in arrears at the time.  So it seems 
the PPI might already have been  cancelled by the time Mr L got into difficulties. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0639537