K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc turned  down his claim under his pet insurance 
policy.
My references to Allianz include its agent.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint and I include an extract from my 
decision here:
Mr S insures  his dog with Allianz  under  a time  limited policy. This means policy covers the 
treatment costs for an illness up to 12 months  after the first signs or symptoms  are noticed.
In early 2018 the dog was diagnosed with a condition called laryngeal paralysis. The 
symptoms for this illness included difficulty swallowing  (dysphagia)  and coughing. Mr S 
made a claim for the vets fees to investigate and treat the illness.  
Allianz turned down  the claim. It said the dog had shown  clinical  signs  of the illness  since 
November 2016.  This meant the 12 month claim period had expired in November 2017   
before the investigations in January 2018.  It had based its decision on information in the 
claim form, the clinical vet history notes, the dogs vets letters  and reports  and two 
conversations with a vet at Mr Ss usual practice.  
Mr S said Allianzs decision was unfair, as hed thought the dogs coughing  and bringing  up 
phlegm in 2016 was caused  by kennel cough.  He came to us, explaining that apart from one 
payment hed not been able to afford  to pay the vets fees. 
After looking into the complaint  our investigator  ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought Allianz  had made a fair decision based on all the evidence.  Mr S strongly disagreed 
and asked for a review.  So the complaints come  to me. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The Allianz policy clearly  explains that it covers  the cost of veterinary treatment  for an illness 
or injury for a period  of 12 months  from the date the injury happened  or clinical  signs  of an 
illness were first noted up to the maximum benefit limit, whichever  is reached  first. After  
12 months the condition  or any condition with the same clinical signs or diagnosis  is not 
covered. 
But I can step outside a strict  interpretation of the policy terms if I consider it is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances to do so. In this case  I think  Allianz should pay Mr Ss 
claim. 
Our longstanding approach when looking at time limited policies is that the 12 month period 
should start when  the consumer can first reasonably make a claim under their policy.  We 
consider it is unfair for the 12 month  period to start where, for example, the consumer or vet 
Ref: DRN09213532has noted something but the vet tells the consumer there is nothing to worry about  at that 
stage and no treatment  is needed. Otherwise,  a consumer could lose out on much  or, as 
here  all of the cover  provided by the policy. They wouldnt have the benefit of the cover 
theyve paid the premiums for.
Having reviewed all the veterinary evidence I can see that Mr S has consistently and 
regularly spoken  to and visited his vet with various concerns about his dogs health.  There  
are numerous entries in his usual vets clinical history recording discussions between  the vet 
and Mr S about the dogs various  health  issues. Additionally he takes the dog to the vet on a 
regular basis for an anti-allergy injection to control  allergic skin disease.
Its not disputed  that the dog was seen by the vet in November 2016  because he suddenly 
started coughing and brought up some  phlegm. The vet examined the dog and said this was 
likely kennel cough.  The cough was mentioned in the vets notes again in December 2016  
when Mr S said the dog had a mild cough  when  he pulled on his lead but was much better. 
The vet told him that the cough  could  persist for three months, but if it worsened or 
continued (for longer  than three  months) then the dog should  be rechecked. 
In March 2017 and April 2017  the vet saw the dog again. The dog had had a little urinary 
incontinence and Mr S was advised  to keep an eye on him. Mr S said the dog occasionally 
coughed following  kennel cough  in November  2016. The vet didnt note anything abnormal in 
the dogs chest and heart, and said the dog should  be reviewed the next time. There was 
also an unrelated  visit about a mass on the dogs flank. 
In August  2017,  when discussing a lump on the dogs fore limb, Mr S mentioned that the dog 
had stumbled on a walk for no apparent  reason. The vet said an MRI would be needed  to 
diagnose any possible cause. It was in September 2017 that Mr S brought  the dog in with 
rapid breathing. The notes say that on being  fed the dog had retched/brought  up white  frothy 
fluid. An x-ray showed mild gastric  dilation and Mr S was advised to monitor for further 
retching/coughing. The dog was given medication to help swallow his food. 
Ive considered the other vets comments as well, and in particular the ones that Allianz says 
support its decision.  But I consider that the weight of evidence is that the earliest  Mr S could 
reasonably have made a claim is in September 2017 when the dog was prescribed 
medication to help him swallow.
Ive noted the comment  on the claim form about  retching  and bringing  up foam starting  
18 months previously.  Mr S has questioned  making  that comment. And I cant see any 
mention in the contemporaneous notes of the dog having those symptoms before 
September 2017. That timescale is borne out by the referral vets history of the dogs 
condition which says that for the last months the dog has had episodes of hacking  cough, 
with phlegm and occasional  vomiting.  The dysphagia (difficulty swallowing) started around 
the same  time. 
Mr B was the dogs  usual  vet. He saw and treated  the dog and he didnt think  the November 
2016 kennel cough and the laryngeal  disease were connected or that the kennel cough had 
any bearing on the development of the laryngeal  paralysis. This view was shared by the vet 
to whom the dog was referred in January 2018. That vet explained the laryngeal paralysis is 
most often attributed to a neurodegenerative polyneuropathy rather  than a previous 
infection. 
Ref: DRN09213533Allianz spoke to another vet Mr M at the usual  vets practice, who reviewed the dogs notes 
before responding and agreed that the cough had started  in November 2016. But Mr M has 
since written a letter to explain that hed not treated the dog or taken a history from Mr S. He 
explained the context of his remarks  made on the phone to Allianz, when hed been trying to 
help as his colleague Mr B who by then had left the practice. Mr M said hed briefly looked at 
the clinical notes  and having  done  so couldnt dispute Allianzs observation that the coughing 
had been present since November 2016. 
Allianz has referred to a note made  by Mr M in the dogs clinical  history in October 2017. 
That notes  says that Mr S had reported  retching/gagging and the dog had a few episodes  
including November 2016 and a few weeks  ago. But Mr M has clarified that these  notes 
were made by him after x-raying  the dog. They were  his observations  based on the clinical  
notes and they werent based on any conversation with Mr S about  the dogs symptoms.  
So having  reviewed all the evidence Im satisfied  that Mr S took all reasonable steps to have 
his dogs symptoms  checked out at the time they occurred.  He then followed the vets advice 
which was, essentially,  to watch and wait. I cant see he could have made  a claim any earlier 
than September  2017. The weight of the veterinary evidence is that treatment for the 
laryngeal paralysis can only reasonably be said to have started in September 2017  when he 
visited the vet on an emergency appointment. This is when the dog was started on treatment 
to deal with the difficulty  swallowing. 
In any event, I dont consider Allianz  has shown that it has been prejudiced in this case.  The 
referral vet said the laryngeal paralysis was in its early stages and could be treated only 
conservatively at that point. In other  words,  aside from medication  there  was nothing more  
that reasonably  could  be done to treat the condition. Its not clear that any other treatment 
was indicated for the dogs occasional coughing until the acute symptoms experienced in 
September 2017. A vet might look at the clinical history and say that kennel cough  wouldnt 
have continued  beyond a few weeks, but thats not what Mr S was told at the time. And 
when he did report the cough he was told to keep an eye on it until September  2017 when 
the dog had difficulty swallowing as well as a cough.  So he couldnt reasonably have  claimed 
under the policy  until then when the dog was prescribed medication and was referred for 
more investigations.  
So I currently think the fair outcome to this complaint is for Allianz  to pay Mr Ss claim, 
subject to the policy limit and any excess,  for 12 months from the date Mr S could first 
reasonably have made a claim under this policy  that is, from the 12 September  2017  
emergency appointment. It should  also pay interest as set out below.
responses
Mr S sent us a list of drugs and items  related to the claim  and condition  in question, which  
hed paid himself  because the original  claim had been rejected. Apart from these additional 
costs he didnt have  anything to add to the comments made by his vets and myself. He had 
to borrow money to pay the amount  outstanding to one of the vets as they said theyd start 
legal proceedings otherwise. 
Allianz responded to say that it would agree to reassess the claim with the new onset  date 
(12 September 2017). It asked for evidence of payment so it could calculate the interest 
amount.
Ref: DRN09213534We asked Mr S for evidence  of the payments hed made any the interest charges hed 
incurred. We explained this to Allianz and in the meantime sent it the information  Mr S had 
sent us about  his additional costs. 
Mr S sent us the statement  from the vet and information from his credit  card provider to 
show the amount  of interest hed been  paying. We have sent this information to Allianz.
In the meantime, Allianz has paid Mr Ss claim. While he was pleased  the claim had been 
paid he queried  why hed not received the full amount or the interest. We asked  Allianz 
about this. 
Allianz apologised for the confusion, explaining that as wed referred  to a continuation claim 
and interest it took this as confirmation  to arrange the settlement. It asked on what  amount it 
should pay interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted my provisional findings, so I see no reason to depart from those 
findings. I confirm  them  here, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.  
Allianz has now paid the claim, with some deductions. That being so Ive looked at the claim 
and the figures.  Ive already asked  our investigator to explain to Allianz and Mr S why I think 
Allianz has paid him the correct amount for his claim, but that it should now pay interest as 
set out below:
25 January 2018  claim
Allianz paid Mr S £1,456.16 for this part of the claim. It has arrived at this figure  by paying 
£1,900.20 less £80 excess (confirmed  in the policy  schedule) which  leaves £1,820.20. 
Deducting the 20% co-payment (confirmed in the policy  schedule)  gives  the £1,456.16 that 
Allianz paid. This is correct. Allianz must add interest at the credit card rate from 4 March  
2019 when this bill was paid until 21 November 2019 when it settled this part of the claim. 
I havent seen  any evidence to show why there is a difference between the amount Mr S 
paid of £1,921.24 and the amount the vet claimed of £1,900.20. So I dont require Allianz  to 
pay the difference in these two figures.
29 June 2018  claim.
Allianz paid Mr S £52.99 for this part of the claim.  This is £66.24  less the 20% co-payment 
leaving £52.99,  which is correct. The excess has already been deducted for this condition so 
correctly Allianz hasnt deducted it again. Allianz  must pay 8% simple interest on £52.99 
from 15 August 2018 until the 21 November 2019 when it paid this part of the claim. 
Ive explained  that Allianz  paid 3 x £22.08 because this is for medication  paid for between 
29 June and 31 August  2018  after that the next payment was made  on 2 October 2018 
and thats outside the 12 month period for which it must pay the claim. In other  words  more 
than 12 months from the 12 September 2017 onset date.  
Ref: DRN092135352 October 2018 claim 
The remaining  medication is outside the 12 month period from the date in September  2017 
that I said Allianz must use as the onset date. So Allianz doesnt have to pay any more  for 
the medication.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc has now 
correctly paid Mr Ss claim and continuation claim for laryngeal paralysis, less the applicable 
excess and co-payment,  for the 12 month  period after the condition  onset  date of 
12 September 2017. 
As it has paid the claim, I now require Allianz  Insurance Plc only to pay Mr S interest as 
follows:
For the 25 January  2018 claim payment, Allianz  must pay interest on the amount of 
£1,456.16 at Mr Ss credit  card rate of interest  from 4 March 2019  (when  this bill was 
paid) until 21 November  2019 when Allianz  paid this part of the claim.  
For the 29 June  2018 claim, Allianz  must pay simple interest* of 8% per year on the 
amount of £52.99 from 15 August 2018 (when  this bill was paid)  to 21 November 
2019 when Allianz  paid this part of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Allianz considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
the 8% simple interest  award, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0921353