K820x#14complaint
Mr G1 and Mr G2 are unhappy that Santander  UK Plc allowed Mr G2 to withdraw funds from 
their joint account without a signature  from both account holders. 
background
In August  2009,  Mr G1 and Mr G2 placed funds  into a jointly  held one year fixed term bond 
with Santander.  
Towards the end of the one year period, Santander  say they contacted Mr G1 and Mr G2 
outlining the options available for the funds.  Santander say neither party  responded, so the 
bond account reverted to a joint instant saver account. Mr G1 and Mr G2 say they never 
received any correspondence about this so werent  aware the account had changed or the 
funds had been moved. 
In 2017 Mr G2 withdrew funds from this account and placed them into an account in his sole 
name. Mr G1 says this was done without his knowledge.
Mr G2 says he had forgotten about  the bond  and didnt know  about the money  until he saw 
an annual statement. He says this statement showed funds in his sole name,  so he assumed 
this was his own money  and not jointly held. Mr G2 says he also asked Santander  about  the 
money and that Santander confirmed it was his. So he withdrew it to another account.
Both Mr G1 and Mr G2 feel Santander should have done more  to clarify that the funds were 
held jointly. Mr G1 feels Santander  should have obtained permission from both account  
holders before the funds  were released.  And Mr G2 feels Santander  should  have  made it 
clear to him that the funds  were jointly held. 
Santander say that the signature permission of the account was listed as either/any  - 
meaning that either account holder was able to withdraw funds on their own, on behalf of all 
account holders.  Mr G1 disputes this and brought this complaint to our service.  
Mr G2 also consented to us looking into the case. He says he took Santander at their word  
when they told him the money was his, and says he never received any correspondence 
stating the funds were  jointly held.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but did not think it should be upheld.  He didnt feel 
Santander had acted unreasonably  by allowing one account holder to withdraw  funds 
without permission from both account holders. 
Mr G1 and Mr G2 disagreed so the case has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Santander say they no longer have a copy  of the original application for the fixed term bond  
account or any other documentation for the account. This isnt unusual and I dont think  its 
Ref: DRN05635742unreasonable, given that a number of years have passed. Because  of this, I have to make 
my decision  based  on what I think is most  likely, given the information available. 
Santander have  provided a screenshot  of their internal  system,  showing that the accounts 
signature permission  was recorded as either/any.  This screenshot also shows  that this 
permission remained the same until the account  was closed in 2017. 
Mr G1 says he believes  the bond account was originally set up in a way which meant 
signatures for both account holders were required in order  for funds to be withdrawn. 
However, I think its unlikely the bond account  was originally set up with a different signature  
permission than that which is showing as recorded  on Santanders internal systems. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the permission was changed through the life of the account.  And a 
joint account being set with either/any signature permissions is not unusual  so Ive seen 
nothing to say it was set up unreasonably.  
Mr G2 says he never received any correspondence  from Santander after he transferred the 
funds out. And he thinks Santander shouldnt have told him the money was his if it was 
jointly held. 
I dont have a copy of the call recordings from this time so I cant say what  Mr G2 was told in 
2017. However if Santander did tell him the funds were his then this would not have been 
incorrect - jointly  held money is owned  by both parties. As for not receiving a letter after hed 
moved the funds,  Santander have confirmed they would  only do this on a customers 
request. As there is no obligation  on them to provide  such  a letter,  I cant  say theyve done 
anything wrong  by not doing so. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Santanders actions were fair and reasonable when 
they allowed  Mr G2 to withdraw the funds to his sole account, without requiring Mr G1s 
signature. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G1 and Mr G2 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0563574