K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that, following the theft of his vehicle and a claim under his motor insurance  
policy, UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct  Line) forgot to update a marker on an 
insurance industry database,  leading to a substantial loss in the sale value of his vehicle. 
background
Mr Cs vehicle, a high value sports car, was stolen  in February 2018. He reported  the theft to 
the police  and to Direct  Line, who placed what they describe as a Stolen Unrecovered 
marker against the vehicle on the Motor  Insurance Anti-Fraud and Theft  Register (MIAFTR).  
On the advice of the police he activated the tracker on his vehicle, and four days  later Mr Cs 
vehicle was found and recovered.  It had been extensively damaged, having suffered a 
severe front-end impact. 
When his vehicle was found Mr C informed Direct Line. It now acknowledges  it should  have 
updated the MIAFTR  to Recovered Damaged immediately; however  it didnt  do so. This 
meant a stolen unrecovered marker remained on MIAFTR against the vehicle.
 
Mr Cs vehicle remained in a police  pound for a month. Due to the extent of the damage  and 
the unusual nature of the vehicle, Direct  Lines own repair  centre recommended  that a 
specialist repairer  should  carry out the work. Mr C identified  a suitable repair centre  and 
Direct Line agreed  for the repairs to be carried out there. 
In early April Mr C complained to Direct Line about unnecessary  delays in starting  the repair 
process and poor communication.  Direct  Line apologised and paid him £75 compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused.
The repair-process was complex  and lengthy. Mr Cs vehicle was delivered to the repair 
centre in mid-April and it was returned to him in mid-July. When  he received his vehicle 
back, he decided  he no longer wanted to keep it. He contacted  his broker and asked her to 
sell it on his behalf. He says a sale price of £56,000  was agreed with a potential buyer. An 
HPI check then revealed the vehicle was still recorded as stolen and the offer was 
withdrawn. The buyer  apparently said they may still be interested  in the vehicle if the marker 
was removed. 
Mr C contacted Direct Line in August  to complain hed been unable  to sell his vehicle 
because it was still recorded as stolen. Direct Line initially failed to identify the vehicle was 
still showing  incorrectly as Stolen Unrecovered on the MIAFTR. It was only at the end of 
August that it finally acknowledged its error  and made the necessary update, which  led to 
the vehicle no longer  appearing as stolen on the on-line  HPI check a few days later.
Mr Cs broker  attempted  to sell his vehicle again  in September,  however  Mr C said the best 
price she was able to negotiate  was now £48,000. Mr C felt that Direct Line was directly 
responsible for the loss in the sale value of the vehicle and made a complaint. In addition, he 
complained about the delays in settling his claim.
Direct Line upheld Mr Cs complaint  and apologised.  It admitted it had made an error  by 
failing to correctly  update  the MIAFTR. It also agreed it could  have done  more to chase up 
the repairs to his vehicle and to keep him updated. It paid him £400 compensation in respect  
of the stress and inconvenience caused.  It didnt agree to compensate him for the loss in the 
sale value of his vehicle however, as it didnt believe it should  be held responsible for this. 
Ref: DRN05961072Mr C didnt accept Direct  Lines response  and so brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator felt the compensation  Direct Line had paid was insufficient. She suggested that 
it be increased to £600, in respect  of the delays to the repairs and the inconvenience 
suffered. She didnt,  however,  feel Direct  Line needed to compensate Mr C for the loss in the 
sale value of his vehicle, agreeing it couldnt be held directly  responsible.  
Neither party accepted the investigators view.  Mr C reiterated that Direct Line should 
compensate him for the loss in the sale value of his vehicle; whilst Direct  Line said it had 
already paid him a total of £475 compensation, which  it felt was enough. This matter has 
therefore been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues I need to decide  upon  are: 
whether Direct Line is responsible for the lengthy delay in repairing Mr Cs vehicle
whether Direct Line should be held responsible for the fact that the eventual  sale 
price Mr C achieved  for his vehicle was considerably less than hes said he was 
originally offered
whether the compensation its paid to date is an appropriate sum in the 
circumstances.
Having considered each of these,  Ive reached broadly the same conclusions  as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
the time taken to complete  repairs
I have looked  at whether Direct  Line should reasonably be held responsible for the lengthy  
delays in carrying out the repairs to Mr Cs vehicle.  
Once it had been released from the police pound,  Mr Cs vehicle was initially taken to Direct 
Lines approved repairer. Having examined  the vehicle, they recommended it would be more 
appropriate for the work to be carried out elsewhere,  by a specialist repairer with experience 
of this type of high-value vehicle. Mr C then identified a local specialist repair centre,  which 
could do the work. And Direct Line agreed  to use this company instead of their own 
approved repairer.  So I think, taking into account Direct Lines reticence to repair  the vehicle 
themselves, it follows that they should  be held partly responsible for the repair  process which  
followed.   
I note that Mr Cs vehicle  arrived  at the repair centre in mid-April.  Ive examined Direct Lines 
case notes and I see the centres estimate took several weeks to complete. Once it was 
ready, Direct  Line authorised the cost of the repairs without any further  delay. The decision 
to go ahead with repairs was made  in mid-May. The repairer says the work required was 
significant  the front end of the vehicle had to be replaced, which  they estimated would 
generally take around four weeks to complete. Theres no clear explanation from the repairer 
about why the work took so much longer than this  though it does point out major repairs 
often require additional parts which can extend  the overall length of a repair. 
Ref: DRN05961073In my view, the repairs to Mr Cs vehicle  took longer than might  reasonably  be expected.  
Direct Line acknowledges this within their case notes  it says that delays in estimating and 
then repairing the car amounted to more than 50 days. I acknowledge that it had less 
influence over the repair process  than if it had been  carried out by its own dedicated 
repairer. However, as the repairs were being  carried out on by another  repairer because its 
approved repairer  and engineer felt this was the best option,  I feel it should have taken a 
more proactive role in liaising with the garage and keeping  Mr C informed of progress. And it 
should have done more  to make sure the repairer  was on track. Ill return to whether DLG 
has done enough to compensate Mr C for this later. 
Is it reasonable to hold DLG responsible for the fact Mr C sold his vehicle for less than he 
was originally offered?
Mr C says he received an offer of £56,000 in early August from a potential buyer, via his 
broker. He says the withdrawal of this initial offer coincided with an HPI check, which  I can 
see highlighted the vehicle was a possible insurance write-off  presumably because it was 
still marked as unrecovered.  Mr C believes this sale fell through  because of Direct Lines 
failure to remove the stolen unrecovered marker from MIAFTR. However, I cant fairly say 
that the sale would otherwise have completed  any sale is dependent  on a number of 
factors and its difficult to know whether this particular deal would have gone through.  
And whilst I accept that Direct Line acted incorrectly when it failed to remove  the marker,  I 
dont agree with Mr Cs position  that his cars true history should  have been hidden from 
potential buyers in order to maintain its pre-accident sale price.  Mr Cs vehicle had been 
stolen and recovered. Most buyers would want to be made aware of this fact. So I dont think  
it would  be fair and reasonable for me to hold Direct  Line responsible for the fact that, 
through its mistake, any potential buyer may have  found out something which  they would 
reasonably have expected to be told about anyway.
Ive also established  that any potential buyer can establish the true history of a vehicle they 
are interested in buying. Although an online autocheck with a reference agency wouldnt 
show if a vehicle has been previously stolen, I understand  the agency will divulge the full 
history of the vehicle  if a potential buyer  phones  to ask for further information. So, its quite 
possible that any potential  buyer  would have  established the true history  of the vehicle in any 
case.
Finally, I note that Mr C has said to Direct Line he feels hes been scammed by the terms 
and conditions on his car insurance  policy as hes not been put back  in the position  he was 
in before his vehicle was stolen. 
Ive examined Mr Cs policy. Direct Lines responsibility under its terms was to arrange for 
his car to be repaired and pay for this. And Id expect it to make sure these repairs  were 
carried out to a good standard.  Mr C acknowledges that it did so. 
Also, the policy wording  specifically says it doesnt cover  any reduction to the market  value 
of an insured vehicle  as a result of it being  repaired. So, I think Direct Line has fulfilled its 
obligations to Mr C by paying for his car to be repaired to a good standard.
Ref: DRN05961074Whats the appropriate amount of compensation?
Ive considered the concerns Mr C has raised  about having to pay for finance on his vehicle 
for longer than he should have had to. I acknowledge he was without his vehicle for a 
lengthy period   around 22 weeks. However,  less than a third of this period may be 
attributed to Direct Lines failure  to proactively manage the repairs.  And, whilst I recognise  
Mr C could have put his car on market sooner if the marker had been  removed when it 
should have been, the delay wasnt a significant one - around a month, from the beginning of 
August to the beginning  of September 2018. 
I also note that Mr C chose not to sell his vehicle for some months  after the marker was 
removed. So I dont  think due to this and the limited amount  of time Direct Line delayed  
things for, it would be reasonable to make  an additional compensation award against Direct  
Line in respect of the extra cost of finance  due to the delays  which occurred. 
Ive also examined  the question  of whether an award for loss of use is appropriate in this 
case, in respect  of the lengthy period  Mr C was without his vehicle  due to delays in the repair  
process. In order to do this, Ive looked  at whether Direct Line met its obligations under Mr 
Cs policy with regard  to the provision of a hire car. The policy  says that it will provide the 
policyholder with a hire car for the duration of the repairs, providing an approved repairer is 
used. Or for 21 days  if the insureds own repairer  is used.  However,  in this case, Direct Line 
didnt want its approved repairer  to carry out the repairs - so I feel that in this case Mr C 
should at least  have been offered a hire car for the duration of the repairs.
Ive seen no evidence  that Direct Line offered Mr C a hire car after the repairs  to his car 
began in mid-April. And Mr C has told me himself that no such offer was made. However, I 
see from Direct Lines  case file that before  repairs began,  it twice  offered to provide Mr C 
with a hire car while repairs go ahead. On each of these  occasions Mr C made it clear  that 
he didnt want to accept  their offer as he didnt like driving a small hatchback  and he also 
didnt want to drive to meetings in a hire car.
So although  no further offer was made once repairs had started,  I dont think  it was 
unreasonable that Direct Line didnt  approach  Mr C a third time. If they had I think it likely  he 
would have declined  their offer in any case,  for the same reasons hed already given. So I 
dont think an award for loss of use as a result  of Mr C not having a hire car while his car 
was repaired is appropriate. 
When our investigator issued her view,  her recommendation was that Direct Line should 
increase its offer to £600 to more fairly compensate  Mr C for the delays and inconvenience 
he suffered. She was unaware he had already been  awarded £75 compensation, so 
suggested that a further £200 should be awarded. 
As Ive outlined, I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable for me to make an award in 
respect of any reduction in the value of Mr Cs vehicle  nor for any additional cost of 
finance.
I do, however,  agree  that an overall payment of £600 in compensation is a fair and 
reasonable award for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr C in this case as a 
result of the delays Direct Line caused.  These  result  from its failure  to remove the marker 
from his car, and its failure to properly keep on top of the repair  process. As its already paid 
Mr C £475 in compensation, this means  that it should increase the compensation paid by a 
further £125. 
Ref: DRN05961075my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. 
I direct  UK Insurance Limited  to pay Mr C an additional £125  compensation, to bring the total 
paid to £600.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 9 June 2019.  
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0596107