K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained that he was mis-sold  a loan payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  by 
Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays). 
background
Mr T bought  the PPI policy  in November 1999 when he took out a loan. Barclays  said that 
the sale took place during a meeting and it advised  Mr T to take the policy.  Mr T said that he 
wasnt given a choice  about taking the PPI. 
This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost (£1,137.64) was added to the loan and 
was repayable, with interest, over the life of the loan. The policy provided life, critical illness, 
accident and sickness and unemployment  cover  for Mr T. If hed made a successful claim, 
the policy wouldve  covered the loan repayments  for up to 12 months for unemployment or 
up to the remaining loan term for accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough evidence  to say that Barclays mis-sold the 
policy, so didnt uphold  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Barclays couldnt give us a copy of Mr Ts loan agreement, which  is not surprising given that 
the loan was repaid over 16 years ago. But it was able to provide sample copies of an 
application form and a loan agreement that it said wouldve been used at the time. It also 
sent in computer records with details of Mr Ts loan account. 
Im satisfied that its reasonable to take these sample documents as representative of what  
wouldve been used  for Mr Ts loan.  On the application form there  are two tick boxes for the 
applicant to say whether  or not they wanted PPI. And on the loan agreement  there  are 
spaces for the cost of the PPI to be included, broken down into the premium, interest 
chargeable, total cost and monthly  payment. 
I accept that, as the sale took place in a meeting, I cant know how the adviser explained  the 
PPI. I also accept that Mr T didnt have  to sign separately for the PPI. But overall,  I think  Mr 
T couldve  chosen which  box to tick on the application form. And from what I can see, the 
cost of the PPI wouldve  been shown separately  on the loan agreement, so I think  Mr T 
wouldve broadly  understood what he was agreeing to take out. So on balance I think  its 
most likely that Mr T was given  a choice about  the PPI, and that he decided  to take it. 
Barclays said it recommended the PPI for Mr T, although he didnt remember the 
recommendation. From what  we know about  other Barclays' sales  of this type, I think  Mr T 
probably was advised  to take out the PPI  so the adviser shouldve made sure that the 
policy was suitable  for Mr T. On balance, I think it was.
Ref: DRN03934742Mr T said he was employed and in good  health at the time of the sale,  and I cant  see that he 
wouldve been affected by any of the main exclusions in the policy.  Mr T also said that he 
was entitled to sick pay from his employer, albeit  less than three months  full pay, and he 
had some savings. I think Mr T couldve found  it difficult to make  the loan repayments once 
his sick pay ended or if he lost his job. So I think the PPI couldve provided  a useful benefit.
Ive also looked  at the cost of the policy, and Im satisfied that the potential  benefit 
reasonably exceeded the cost. I dont think Mr T wouldve  received a proportionate refund of 
the premium when he repaid the loan early, but I have no evidence to suggest  that he 
planned to do this at the time of the sale. So overall I dont think there  was anything wrong 
with Barclays recommending the PPI.
Ive also looked  at what information  Mr T might have been given about the policy.  I have  a 
copy of the policy summary, although I cant know when in the sales  process  Mr T might 
have received this. But as Ive said, I dont think he wouldve been affected  by any of the 
things not covered. And I think its most likely that the cost was adequately  explained.
Overall, I dont  have enough evidence to say that Barclays mis-sold the policy to Mr T. 
Although I cant say whether Barclays fully explained the policy terms, Im not satisfied that 
Mr T wouldve acted  differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. The policy  couldve 
provided useful  cover  if Mr T couldnt work.  This means Mr T is not worse  off as a result of 
what Barclays may have done  wrong, so theres nothing  it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0393474