K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 1998 at the same time as taking out a secured loan. They  
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 42-month  term. The monthly loan repayment was £231.66 
with the PPI costing  an additional £23.58  making the total monthly repayment £255.24. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  only for Mr S for accident,  sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ss monthly loan 
repayment for up to 60 months in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in 
the event of unemployment. 
As only Mr S was covered by the policy I shall in this decision mainly refer to him and his 
personal circumstances in this decision, taking account of Mrs S situation  as appropriate. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as an Occupational Health Safety. He has told us he was 
entitled to up to 12 months  sick pay, death  in service and redundancy pay from his 
employer. He has also said Mr and Mrs S had around £1,500 of savings. Mr S has said he 
was in good health at the time of the sale. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in April 2001.  
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs Ss 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr S about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN00410802The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
The policy contains an unfair contract  term that gives the business  the right to 
unilaterally vary the cover and premium.  Mr S also says that the non-disclosure of 
this term is a breach  of the duty of utmost good faith; 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN00410803The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Whether BOS gave Mr S sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
Ref: DRN00410804suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and BOS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
On the loan application form there is question asking if Mr S wanted PPI with Yes and No 
boxes to select. I can see from the copy of the application form supplied  the Yes box has 
been ticked. Mr S signed the agreement, so approving  the contents stated on it were what 
he wanted. BOS  would also have provided  some information about  the policy and asked 
about the choice for the PPI before completing  the form. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr S knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says that advice  was provided during this sale and Mr S hasnt indicated he disagrees  
with this. So I think it is most likely advice was provided. 
This means  BOS had to advise Mr S with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr S. It seems Mr and Mrs S cant remember clearly what  happened  
and there  is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy.  This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited information 
about Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mr S would have been  caught by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest BOS  considered whether Mr S had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr S given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr S, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr S clearly  had an interest in the cover  the policy offered as he selected to take out 
the cover. And it would have provided a useful benefit, in addition to any employment 
Ref: DRN00410805benefits, should he have been off work with sickness or been unemployed for any 
length of time, taking  into account the loan was secured on Mr and Mrs Ss property. 
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S.
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr S. There  was 
nothing about  Ss employment or occupation which  would have  made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim.
Whilst Mr S has raised a point that the cover ended when he was 65, the loan and 
PPI associated with it ended a maximum period of 42 months after it was taken out. 
At this point Mr S would have been  still under 60 so this restriction of the policy 
ending when  he was 65 would  never  have  affected  him.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what BOS  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the costs. I have reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr S would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was for and the monthly premium was stated on the application 
form. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
S agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr S. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr S all of the information he needed  
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ss. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
Ref: DRN00410806poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that BOS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr S. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr S 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr S, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S has suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mr S would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr S says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage payments in the event Mr 
S was unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, he concluded he 
wanted that product. But he made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what he thought  he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for Mr S.
Ref: DRN00410807As Ive also already explained, the information Mr S was given about the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  BOS  made  clear  exactly what Mr S would  get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;
 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs S wasnt  a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr S pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr S didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr S 
from taking out the policy,  Mr S still had some good reasons to take it out.
If Mr S had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  job or paid work which in the insurers view he might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible Mr S may not have 
Ref: DRN00410808been overly concerned given that if he was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help Mr and Mrs S manage  the consequences were  Mr S made  redundant, or unable  
to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not 
Mr S would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
Mr S had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Mr S would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN00410809Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0041080