K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that Rational  Foreign  Exchange  Limited  (Rational FX) cancelled his 
transaction, refused to honour the rate hed been  quoted, and failed to return  what  hed paid 
for it - £500. He says that, when he complained, Rational  FX closed his account.
Background
On Friday 15 March  2019  Mr D placed an online order to purchase £500  worth of Ghanaian 
Cedi (GHS). He received a deal confirmation and transferred the £500 to Rational FX. But 
on the Monday  he received an email telling  him that the deal had been cancelled  because 
there had been  an error in the exchange  rate quoted. It asked  Mr D if he wanted to proceed 
with the deal at the correct exchange  rate but he declined.
Mr D complained  he wanted  Rational FX to honour the deal at the rate hed been originally 
quoted. In response, Rational FX closed his FX account. It says this was a mistake  and it re-
opened it a few days later. It didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It returned Mr Ds £500  and 
credited his FX account with £10 as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Mr D wasnt expecting his money  to be returned, so when he received a £500 credit  he says 
he didnt know what it was and asked his bank to return it. The money wasnt  applied  back  to 
Mr Ds FX account.  But, following our involvement, Rational FX identified the transaction and 
re-credited Mr Ds bank account in September 2019.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He concluded 
that there  had been a mistake with the exchange rate due to a system  glitch  which affected 
the pound  sterling  and US dollar  market exchange rate for GHS. And that Rational FX had 
acted in line with its agreed terms and conditions.
Mr D didnt agree saying, in summary, that the adjudicator had not considered  UK law, but 
had quoted term 7.6. Rational  FX breached a contract so terms 7.7 and 7.8 should apply. He 
also said the £10 goodwill  gesture  was credited  to his account when it was blocked, so he 
couldnt access it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 15 March 2019 there was a problem with the exchange rate feed. The market exchange 
rate for the pound sterling and US dollar  was wrong  due to a system problem which 
impacted many providers.  I understand from Rational FX that, as people  realised the rate 
being quoted, there  was much comment on social media and some  consumers tried to take 
advantage of the mistake. 
When Mr D placed his order  to buy £500  worth of GHS, he was quoted an exchange rate of 
30.106360. Mr D had carried out several similar transactions in the past and the rate had 
always been around 6 to 7 GHS  to the £. So I think it would have been reasonably  obvious  
that there  had been a mistake. Rational FX terms and conditions  say:
Ref: DRN055452827.6 Out-of-Market Quotes:  If we quote you a rate or Purchase Price that is clearly a mistake 
on our part as the result of a technical or human error, it is not binding on us. You must notify 
us as soon as the mistake comes to your attention and we will re-quote as soon as possible
My role is not to decide whether that term is in accordance with UK law, that is a matter  for 
the courts or the regulator. Rather I need  to consider whether application of that term in 
Mr Ds circumstances was fair and reasonable. And I think  it was  I think it was clear a 
mistake had been made and, when Rational FX realised, it cancelled  Mr Ds order  and 
offered to carry it out at the correct rate  which he declined.
Mr D says Rational FX is in breach of contract  and he has asked me to consider terms 7.7 
and 7.8. These say:
7.7 Receipt of an Order and time for payment: Pursuant to a Contract, we will agree with 
you that execution of the payment  is to take place either: 
7.7.1 on a specific day; 
7.7.2 on the last day of a certain period; or 
7.7.3 the day on which the payer puts funds  at your disposal, 
and the time of receipt of your payment order is deemed to be that day or the next Business 
Day if this falls on a non-Business Day. This date is referred to in these Terms  as the Value  
Date. 
7.8 Once an Order is completed, we will not retain the proceeds unduly and will send 
them to the Recipient,  Your Nominated Account or otherwise return them  to you. 
I accept Mr D thought his order had been completed  because  he received confirmation  of 
the trade and he made payment. But the trade had been completed at a price that was 
clearly a mistake. So, in accordance with 7.6, it is not binding.
I understand Mr D feels strongly about this. But I have to be fair to both parties. And it 
wouldnt be fair for Mr D to benefit from a systems error, particularly where it was so obvious  
that something had gone wrong. If Mr D does not accept this, he has the option to reject my 
decision and pursue his complaint through other means.
Turning to the money Mr D paid for this trade, Rational FX returned  Mr Ds £500  to his bank 
account. Unfortunately he sent it back. And it doesnt look like there was anything for 
Rational FX to identify  that it should  be applied  to his FX account. This is why it took some  
time for Rational FX to identify the credit  and send it back again. But I cant  find that 
Rational FX did anything wrong  here.
There was some confusion when Mr D complained.  Due to human error, Rational FX 
thought Mr D wanted to close  his account and thats  what it did. But it re-opened the account 
a couple of days later when it realised his mistake. This meant  there was only a short delay 
before Mr D was able to access the £10 Rational FX had paid him as a goodwill gesture
Ref: DRN05545283My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0554528