K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about the amount that hes been charged by FCE Bank plc, trading as Ford 
Credit, after he voluntarily  terminated  a hire purchase agreement.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr F under a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit that he 
signed in August 2013. He voluntarily  terminated  the agreement  in January 2016 because  
his health issues  had led to him suffering financial difficulties  and the car was sold at 
auction. More  than a year later Mr F was contacted by Ford Credit and it said that he owed it 
£1,234.88.
He complained to Ford Credit and said that the car had been sold at auction for more than 
£8,000 and that hed presumed that hed have little or nothing  more to pay. It said that the 
voluntary termination  liability of £1,234.88 was less than the net settlement figure  so was the 
amount that was owed by Mr F. But because its collections department  hadnt  made  contact 
with him for twelve months, due to a system  error,  it said that it was happy to write-off  £100 
from his liability so the amount of £1,134.88 remained outstanding. Mr F wasnt  satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. Although Mr F 
wasnt contacted  for a year,  he didnt  believe that he had reason to believe that he had no 
remaining amount  outstanding. But he thought that Ford Credit should  offer another  £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused and he said that it had agreed  to reduce the outstanding 
liability to £1,034.88.
Mr F has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that:
he didnt agree a repayment plan in February 2016 but agreed in principle to pay 
what he owed at the end of April  but no amount was discussed  and hed not had 
confirmation of the final sale of the car;
the initial debt before deduction of the compensation should be £1,128.92 (which is 
£7,837.92 debt upon termination minus £6,709 sale value of the car) so the amount 
he has to pay should be £928.92;  and
hes not necessarily  seeking  that debt to be written off but that the value is reduced 
substantially due to Ford Credit leading him to believe that it would sell the car for fair 
value (and the cost of 20% VAT was never mentioned).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F says that his health issues  led to him suffering financial difficulties in 2015 and 2016.  
I sympathise with him for those issues. He missed payments that were due to Ford Credit 
under the agreement in 2015 and it recorded adverse information on his credit  file. I consider 
that that information was a true and accurate record of his payments and Im not persuaded 
that it acted incorrectly  in recording that information  on his credit  file. 
Mr F asked  to voluntarily terminate his agreement  in January 2016. The car was sold at 
auction in February  2016. Mr F says that he attended the auction and that he remembers the 
Ref: DRN06952822car selling for more  than £8,000. But hes provided  no other evidence to show  that the car 
sold for more than £8,000.
Ford Credit has provided evidence to show  that the auction sale price was £6,775  and that, 
after deducting the auction  commission of £66, the sale proceeds  were £6,709 (which 
included VAT so it says that the net amount that it received  was £5,591.29). I consider it to 
be more likely than not that the price for which the car sold at auction was a fair market  value  
 and its consistent with the valuation from a respected guide. Ford Credit  says that the 
amount required  to settle Mr Fs account at the time he requested  the voluntary termination 
was £7,609.66 and deducting the net sales amount  from that gives an outstanding liability of 
£2,018.69. Thats more than the voluntary  termination liability of £1,234.88 thats its charged 
Mr F.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Ford Credit has calculated 
Mr Fs liability incorrectly or that it gave him incorrect information about  how his liability 
would be calculated. And I consider it to be more likely than not that the proceeds of sale 
from the auction were  £6,709 (including VAT). Mr F may not have  understood that Ford 
Credit would deduct VAT from the sales price  but I dont consider that it gave him incorrect  
information or that it acted incorrectly in doing so.
Ford Credit has accepted  that it didnt contact Mr F about his outstanding  liability for more  
than a year. It offered  to reduce his liability by £100 because of that and has accepted  the 
adjudicators recommendation that it should  deduct a further £100 from that amount. Its 
clear that Mr F has been caused distress and inconvenience because he wasnt  contacted  
by Ford Credit about his outstanding liability for more than a year. And I consider  that it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to reduce that liability  by £200 to £1,034.88. But I find that 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to reduce his 
liability by more than that or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
I suggest that Mr F contacts Ford Credit to try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement for the amount that he owes. And if hes continuing  to experience  financial 
difficulties, its required to respond to those difficulties positively and sympathetically.
Ref: DRN06952823my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part. And I order  FCE 
Bank plc, trading as Ford Credit,  to reduce the amount  that he owes to £1,034.88.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0695282