K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Allianz Insurance Plc accepted liability  on his behalf under his motor  
insurance policy following  an accident.  He also complains that his premium  has gone  up 
whilst the claim  remains  open.
background
Mr O was involved in an incident with another driver. They gave conflicting accounts of what 
had happened. So Allianz considered  the engineering evidence  and thought this supported 
the other drivers version of events. It said it wouldnt be able to defend  the matter  in court,  
so it accepted liability for the incident.  A fault was recorded against  Mr O and his premium  
increased. Mr O was adamant  that the accident  wasnt his fault.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Allianz 
had reasonably considered the evidence available  before making  its decision.  She thought it 
was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So she didnt think  it had done 
anything wrong.
Mr O replied that the front of the other  drivers car wasnt damaged. He said the damage  to 
the side of the other drivers car was caused when he rubbed  against the bumper of Mr Os 
car whilst he was turning.  He asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a 
final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr O is adamant that he wasnt at fault for this accident. I can understand that 
hes upset that his premium has increased  substantially. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Allianz is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr O to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mr O has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether  he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before coming  to its decision on liability. 
Mr O described  the accident circumstances.  He said he was on a one way street  looking to 
turn into a parking area. He said he was manoeuvring around a parked car at the time. He 
said another car came up fast behind him and clipped his rear as it passed. Mr O later 
provided Allianz with a detailed drawing of what he said had happened. 
Ref: DRN05497562The other driver gave  a conflicting account of what had happened. He said Mr O collided 
with the passenger side of his car as he emerged  from a side road. 
There were no independent witnesses present and no CCTV available.  Allianz said that it 
then looked at engineers  reports  of the damage. These showed a small  dent on the rear 
bumper of Mr Os car and a dent on the rear passenger  side of the other car. Allianz thought  
the damage supported the other drivers version of events. This was confirmed by its senior 
engineers. Allianz  said it wouldnt be able to defend  the matter if it went  to court. And so it 
accepted liability  for the claim.  
I think Allianz reasonably  investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before deciding to accept  liability.  I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say its done anything wrong or require it to change its decision. 
Mr O was also unhappy that his premium  had increased because of the claim.  But I dont 
think its unusual for an insurer to record a claim as fault whilst  its in dispute and still open. 
In that case the premium  would be increased.  Then the liability was decided as fault and I 
think premiums  would usually increase  as a result. 
I can see that Mr O later decided to make a claim to have his bumper repaired. If Mr O is 
unhappy with the progress of this, then he should raise  this with Allianz. If he remains  
unhappy, he can always bring his complaint to us. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0549756