K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about end of contract charges when he terminated  his agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VFS)
background
In October  2015 Mr K was supplied with a brand new car and entered  into an agreement 
with VFS. The agreement was for a 36 month period and came to an end in November 2018 
when the car was returned. Following inspection  of the car VFS asked Mr K to pay damage 
charges of £254.40.
Mr K disputes the charges. He says that any damage to the car was fair wear and tear. Hes 
also unhappy that the car was inspected  in poor light and says he didnt receive the invoice 
for the damage  charges  within 28 days of the car being returned.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said the damage fell outside  fair wear and 
tear and that VFS was entitled to charge for it.
Mr K didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the hire agreement  say that Mr K must return  the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at both of the inspection reports including  the photos. Both reports  identify  
damage to the bonnet, the right hand  front door and the wheels. The second inspection 
report identifies further damage but Mr K hasnt  been charged  for this so I wont focus on it in 
my decision.
Looking at the inspection reports and the photos,  I can see that theres an area on the 
bonnet which appears to have suffered damage which  hasnt been  repaired properly before 
being painted  over. This isnt acceptable  according to the BVLRA guidelines  which say that 
repairs to bodywork must be of a professional standard.
In relation to the right hand door,  I can see scratches which  exceed 25mm  in length. The 
guidelines say that scratches  up to 25mm are acceptable, provided that the primer isnt 
exposed. The scratches on Mr Ks car are longer  than 25mm and therefore outside of the fair 
wear and tear guidelines.
In relation to the alloy wheels, I can see damage to the spokes on both of the right hand 
wheels and also on the left front wheel. Damage to spokes falls outside of the fair wear and 
tear guidelines. 
Ref: DRN06033252I appreciate Mr Ks strength of feeling about  this and I note his comments  about  having 
returned cars in the past in similar condition and not being charged for damage. I can only 
look at the circumstances of this particular case and comment on the damage  identified by 
the inspection  reports.
Mr K has raised concerns about  the conditions when the car was inspected the first time. He 
says that the BVLRA guidelines say that an inspection should  be abandoned if there is poor 
light. Its not the role of this service to enforce  the BVLRA guidelines. However, Ive 
considered whether Mr K was treated fairly when the inspection wasnt abandoned.
I can see that the same damage that was identified at the first inspection  was identified  at 
the second inspection. The second inspection was carried out in good light.  The second 
inspection identifies  further damage  which wasnt spotted at the first inspection. Mr K hasnt 
been charged for this. I cant say that Mr K has been disadvantaged by the first inspection 
being carried out in poor light  in all likelihood, if the first inspection had been  abandoned  
and rearranged so that it was carried out in good light, more  damage wouldve been 
identified and Mr K wouldve received  a larger invoice.
Because of this, I cant say that Mr K was treated unfairly when the first inspection  wasnt  
abandoned.
Mr K has also complained that he didnt receive  his invoice  within  28 days  of the car being  
inspected. I can see that the invoice was raised on 15 December 2018, which is within  28 
days of the inspection. I appreciate that Mr K may not have receive the invoice within the 28 
day period. However,  I cant fairly hold VFS responsible for delays with the postal service.
Im satisfied that the invoice was raised within the 28 days period  referred  to in the 
guidelines. The fact that Mr K received  it outside  of this period makes  no difference  to the 
fact that damage  has been identified which Im satisfied falls outside fair wear and tear. I 
think VFS has acted reasonably in charging  for the damage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0603325