K820x#14Complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Legal  & General Insurance  Limiteds (L&G) decision to decline 
his claim under his home insurance  policy.
Background
On 13 August 2018 Mr Ls property suffered damage to the internal  walls, ceiling and soft 
furnishings which he says was caused  by a storm. 
Mr L contacted L&G to make a claim on his home  insurance policy. In response to the claim, 
L&G appointed a surveyor to visit Mr Ls property to survey  the damage.  
The surveyor attended the property on 22 August, but they were unable  to identify the 
source of the leak. Mr L appointed a plumber  to investigate  the problem further. And he 
submitted a report that concluded the leak was due to metal  gutters  coming away  from the 
property and the lower  bay gutters being  blocked.  
Based on these findings, Mr Ls claim was declined because escape of water from guttering 
was excluded under  his policy. Mr l then provided  an updated report  which stated the 
damage was caused due to torrential rain and high winds blowing a hole in the fascia  
boards. But L&G didnt alter its decision to decline the claim. It said that it had referred the 
subsequent report  to its surveyor. But the surveyor had advised it that this was a 
maintenance issue. It also said that the weather conditions on the day Mr L said the event 
occurred didnt meet storm  conditions. 
Unhappy with L&G decision, Mr L referred  his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr Ls policy  excluded  
damage caused by an escape of water from guttering and there  was no evidence  that storm 
conditions were present  on or around the 13 August, so a claim cant be made  for damage 
caused by a storm. 
Mr L disagreed. In summary, Mr L feels that his policy should  cover him for damage caused  
to his property. So he asked for an ombudsman  to review the case
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  overall conclusion as our investigator. I know Mr L 
will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Mr Ls claim was initially  declined because  L&G said Mr Ls policy  didnt provide cover  for 
loss or damage caused by an escape of water from guttering. So Ive looked  at Mr Ls policy  
and this says (under both buildings and contents insurance) we will not pay you for.loss  or 
damage caused by escape of water from guttering,  rainwater downpipes.. As the initial  
report Mr L provided indicated the guttering around  his property caused the leak,  I dont think 
L&G unfairly declined  Mr Ls claim in the first instance.    
Ref: DRN04782432Mr Ls policy does however cover damage to buildings and contents caused by a range of 
events that might happen. The events  listed in the policy  include storm, flood, fire and theft 
amongst other things.  But, for Mr Ls claim to be successful, he has to show  that the damage  
hes claiming for was caused by one of those events. 
Here, Mr L says that torrential rain and wind made  a hole in the propertys fascia  board and 
this caused the leak which damaged his property. And he has provided a second report  
which indicates the damage was caused  by torrential rain and high winds  which the gutters  
couldnt cope  with. So, the relevant insured event in this instance is storm. 
When we look at storm damage cases,  we ask three questions: 
has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date    
the damage occurred? 
is the nature of the damage consistent  with that typically caused by a storm? 
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage? 
A storm  is more than bad weather. Its defined in Mr Ls policy as wind speeds with gusts of 
at least 47 miles  per hour or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least  25mm/one inch per hour. 
For Mr Ls claim to be covered it has to first be shown that there  was an identifiable storm 
around the time of the damage.  Because if there  wasnt a storm it cant  be said that storm 
(as opposed to just bad weather) caused the damage.
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then we say the claim should succeed.  But, if 
the answer to any of the above  questions is no  the claim wont  succeed under  this section
So, Ive checked  the weather records for the week before the damage was noticed.  They  
show that the peak gusts and rainfall didnt exceed  the thresholds outlined  in Mr Ls policy.    
To be clear, I dont doubt there may have been some  bad weather. But Ive concluded that 
storm conditions didnt  occur on or around  13 August 2018. And so I dont need  to consider 
the other two questions. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L but for the above reasons I think it was reasonable for L&G to 
decline his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0478243