K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Lloyds  in 1984. At the same  time they were  sold a 
PPI policy. The PPI would have helped cover their mortgage for up to 12 months at a time if 
Mr A couldnt work due to an accident,  sickness or unemployment. Or it wouldve helped 
cover the mortgage  for up to 24 months  at a time if Mrs A was off work because  of an 
accident or sickness. 
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt know they had the PPI and that they didnt agree to take it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when  deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The sale of the PPI took place 35 years ago. Unsurprisingly there isnt much information  
about the sale left for me to look at, so I must reach my decision based on what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened. Lloyds has provided some information about  the mortgage  
application and it looks like the sale took place  in a branch. Its likely the PPI was sold at the 
same time.
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt know they had the PPI. They  dont remember  anything about 
the sale. They indicate it must have been  added without their knowledge or consent. But 
without other  evidence I cant fairly say, over three decades later, that its likely Mr and Mrs A 
didnt consent  to buying the policy. 
Lloyds say that Mr and Mrs A would  have been  given a personal recommendation about the 
PPI, so it had a duty to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was right for them. While 
Lloyds have been able to state how much the PPI cost, how long the benefit  would be paid 
for and the type of cover Mr and Mrs A each had, there isnt a full policy document  detailing  
the terms and exclusions  still available. So, Ive thought about the terms most commonly  
found in PPI policies.
Given Mr and Mrs As circumstances  at the time I think  its likely they were  both eligible for 
the policy and wouldnt have been  affected  by any terms  which might have made it more 
difficult for them to make  a successful  claim,  such as those which exclude existing medical 
conditions, or have onerous  terms for the self-employed. Mrs A was self-employed,  but she 
didnt have unemployment cover, so this wouldnt have affected her.
Ref: DRN07518772Mr A cant  remember whether he had any sick pay from his employer, and Mrs A didnt have 
any as she was self-employed. I dont think its likely Mr A would  have received 12 months 
full sick pay, so I think the policy offered  a useful benefit to both of them if they were too ill to 
work. And the same  applies to the redundancy cover for Mr A. Its unlikely he would have 
received much more  than statutory redundancy pay  the equivalent of a few weeks salary. 
The unemployment cover  would have been  useful too. 
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  around the 
same time. It was flexible,  because  it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. And I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs A. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs A enough  information  about the PPI. But I dont  
think even if Mr and Mrs A had received all the details that theyd have made a different 
decision about buying the policy. I say this because I think the policy was likely suitable  for 
them in the way Ive described.
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs A likely  lost out as a result  of anything Lloyds might  have  done  
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint, so it follows  that Lloyds  Bank PLC doesnt  have 
to pay any compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0751877