K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the charges the IPS Partnership plc, trading as James Hay 
Partnership (James Hay)  applied to his Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP).
background
On 15 July 2009 Mr C applied to open a SIPP with IPS Partnership as the scheme 
administrator. Mr C applied after advice from a financial adviser. At some later time IPS 
Partnership rebranded as James  Hay Partnership.
On 13 October 2017 Mr C wrote to James Hay querying invoices hed received for fees and 
charges from May 2017 onwards. He didnt receive  a response,  and wrote  again on 
13 December 2017, and a third time on 12 January 2018. 
James Hay treated  the third letter as a complaint and sent a final response letter dated  
5 April 2018 to Mr C. The response also dealt with the October and December 2017 letters. 
James Hay didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint about the charges but did uphold on customer  
service issues.  It said it had disclosed  the charges in the terms and conditions  that Mr C 
agreed to. And it had sent Mr C a letter regarding changes to the charges on 22 March  2017. 
It wouldnt respond to his queries as to whether the fee structure was fair as if Mr C had 
been unhappy with the fee structure  he couldve not signed up for the SIPP  or transferred 
out of it. 
Mr C had particularly asked what James  Hay had done to warrant the annual  management 
fee. He had been charged £548.40  for this in July 2017. James Hay explained  that the fee 
wasnt calculated on an individual pension basis. Rather, it was calculated  based on a sum 
of its projected management  costs  divided  across  all pensions.  It also explained why there 
had been two pension review valuation  charges.  However  James  Hay did acknowledge that 
they should have addressed Mr Cs complaint sooner and offered him £200  as a gesture  of 
goodwill.
On 7 May,  Mr C wrote to James Hay saying he thought the handling  of the crux of his 
complaint, the charges, had been disingenuous.  It was passed off as not worth  discussing, 
as if by agreeing  to the terms and conditions  that made the charges correct and reasonable. 
He didnt recall having  the charges explained  to him. And it wasnt  explained that the costs 
werent particular to him, instead being  a broad-brush value covering every client. 
On 16 May James Hay responded.  It said that its decision remained unchanged.  It said that 
it didnt provide an advisory service  it provided information. The onus was on Mr C, and 
any advisers he had, to ensure he was satisfied. It repeated  its offer of £200  compensation 
for its poor customer service.  
In late May Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He wanted the charges cancelled. 
James Hay then wrote  to our service increasing its offer to £300. Our investigator said that 
James Hay had applied the fees in line with the account terms and conditions, including  the 
review of charges  sent to Mr C on 22 March 2017. He noted that Mr C felt the charges were  
unjustified, but as they were applied as agreed  he didnt think  James Hay had acted 
inappropriately. He thought the offer of £300 for the customer  service  failings was fair. 
Ref: DRN05809262Mr C didnt agree. He thought that as the SIPP platform provider (James  Hay) had always 
known it would be providing limited services  since  the investments  would  be managed by 
another firm, the basis on which the fees were  calculated  shouldve been explained. He said 
the fact that the fees were  based on projected  management costs  divided across all 
pensions was a hidden condition that shouldve been explained in precise  detail. Had he 
been aware of this change, he wouldve switched providers. He thought there  had been  a 
major change in fees that shouldve been agreed  in writing. 
Our investigator sent Mr C a copy of the declaration  hed signed  in 2009 when hed opened 
the SIPP accepting  the terms and conditions.  This was because  Mr C said he couldnt  find a 
copy of any document  signed by him. He also sent a copy of the March  2017 fee review 
letter. 
Mr C said he didnt receive  the March 2017  letter and nothing was sent to him by his 
financial adviser, whose  services had been terminated by that time.  He said the change  
outlined in the letter was a substantial  change to the conditions, in that it expects clients to 
accept that everyone  will pay a proportion of the total budgeted costs of a group of clients, 
even though the original  agreement was specific to Mr C. He still thought  such a change  
wouldve required a signed acceptance.  
Our investigator said that as the letter was addressed to Mr C, on the balance of probability  it 
was sent to him. Mr C had the option to transfer  elsewhere, which he understood hed done.  
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr C feels very strongly 
that hes been charged unfair fees. But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint him, as Im 
not going to ask James Hay to do any more  than it has offered. 
Mr C queries the following charges made  between  May and October  2017:
(a)Pension Review  May and October 2017 - £120 each.
(b)Annual IM/stockbroker charge  July 2017 - £180.
(c)Annual Management fee  July 2017 - £548.40  
On 15 July 2009 when he applied for the SIPP Mr C signed a declaration in which, among 
other things,  he agreed to its terms and conditions. The declaration  also said that he agreed  
to the fee structure set out in the IPS booklet.  
Ive looked at the booklet. I can see that in 2009  it provided for an annual  administration fee 
(AAF) of £395 plus VAT (£474  in total), invoiced annually  in arrears, and increased each 
year in line with the index  of average weekly earnings. 
So by 2017 it wouldve  been a somewhat larger amount than £474.  The booklet  sets out the 
services that the initial fee and the AAF covers. These include dealing  with correspondence 
from HMRC and others, maintenance of records,  and production of annual  statements, 
among other things.  The booklet also sets out a fee of £100 plus VAT for pension reviews. 
Any fees not listed in the booklet will be charged  at £150 per hour plus VAT. An annual  
investment management-  stockbroker charge isnt specifically included in the booklet.  
Ref: DRN05809263The 22 March 2017 letter made some changes  to fees with effect from 28 April 2017. It 
introduced an annual investment management-stockbroker charge of £150 plus VAT, 
charged in advance. This was the £180 Mr C was charged in July 2017. And it set a new 
charge for the AAF of £600 plus VAT (£720 in total). Mr C was charged  £548.40  in July 
2017. 
I would have expected the AAF charged  to Mr C to have been less than the new fee as it is 
charged in arrears. In its response to the complaint James Hay acknowledged  the fees was 
charged in arrears and said that it had checked the fee history and the AAF charged was 
correct. Ive no reason  to doubt this. 
No changes were  made to the pension review  charge in the March letter. Mr C queried  why 
he was charged two such charges in one year. James Hay explained  that one was the 
annual review and one was done due to a request from Mr Cs financial  adviser.  This seems  
reasonable to me. 
So Im satisfied that the charges invoiced to Mr C were made in line with the terms and 
conditions, including  the changes made in the March letter. 
Mr C says he didnt receive the letter. Ive no reason to think  that James Hay didnt send  it. I 
can see that Mr Cs address on the letter  isnt completely correct, in that it is sent to a road,  
when Mr C lives in a fold. But the postcode  is correct, as is the rest of the address. And 
there is no road with a similar address. It seems that other  correspondence  from James Hay 
has had a similar incorrect address, and that seems  to have reached  Mr C. I say this 
because he has received the invoices,  and the eventual response to his complaint. So I think  
the letter is sufficient  to give notice, although  I understand  Mr C doesnt  agree. 
Mr C also says that such a substantial change shouldve required a signed acceptance. I can 
understand why he thinks  this. But there is nothing in the original terms and conditions  that 
requires this. Those require 30 days notice to be given.  The 22 March letter said the new 
fees and fee levels would  apply from 28 April. That is more than 30 days later. 
But Mr Cs central argument is that regardless of what the terms and conditions  say, the 
basis on which James Hay calculates  its fees is unfair. He says if hed known  this, he 
wouldve gone elsewhere. He seems to think that the fee structure introduced in the March 
2017 has a fundamentally  different approach  which shouldve been explained to him. 
Im afraid I disagree. The basis on which James  Hay calculates its fees is a commercial 
decision. There are a range of charging models, including  flat fees,  a percentage of assets 
held model, a time charged model or a mix. Each has its advantages or disadvantages for 
the customer, depending  on the customers particular circumstances. 
When Mr C signed the declaration on the SIPP application, he accepted  the fees. I cant  see 
why being given information as to the rationale  for the fee level wouldve made  a difference.  
He could accept  the fee level and apply for the SIPP,  or he could take his business 
elsewhere if he didnt  like the fee level. The IPS Partnership said several times in the booklet  
and terms that it didnt provide advice so I wouldnt have expected  it to provide him with any 
advice in relation  to the fees. 
And Im not convinced  that in March  2017  there was a substantial change  in approach to the 
rationale for the fees structure.  That letter gave reasons for the increase in charges, pointing  
to issues such as pensions freedoms and changes in interest  rates. It then set the AAF at 
Ref: DRN05809264the same  level for all clients going  forward. But I dont think this means  that prior to that there 
was a difference in the fee between customers that was tailored to that particular clients 
circumstances and needs. Customers had a different AAF because of the effect  of the 
annual increases from average  weekly  earnings.  In 2017 James Hay effectively rebased the 
AAF to create a new starting point.  
But I do think that James Hay provided poor customer  service  in relation to its failure  to 
respond to Mr Cs queries  about  the invoices.  It has acknowledged this, and offered him 
£200, which it increased to £300  when the complaint came  to our service.  I think  this is fair 
compensation for Mr Cs inconvenience so although  I know  it will disappoint  Mr C and Im 
sorry for that, I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that The IPS Partnership plc must pay Mr C £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0580926