K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Casheuronet UK LLC (Casheuronet) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans and an instalment loan Casheuronet provided to 
Mr D (under its trading names  of Quick Quid and Pounds to Pocket) from March 2010  
onwards. Mr Ds last loan was provided  in September 2012.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ds complaint and thought  none  of these loans should have been 
provided to him. 
Casheuronet only agreed with our adjudicators view on some of the loans and to put 
matters right for them.  Mr D didnt accept Casheuronets offer.  As this is the case and the 
parties havent been able to resolve the compliant informally,  the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr D could repay  the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN09137332I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Mr D could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. And I think  that this is 
wider than simply assessing whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Mr D, I think that 
Casheuronet should reasonably have seen that Mr D was unlikely to have been able to 
make the required loan repayments  in a sustainable manner for any of these loans. I say this 
because:
given how much of Mr Ds income  would be taken up by repayment of loans one to 
four, I think that a proportionate check ought to have established what  Mr Ds normal  
monthly living expenses  and regular financial commitments were. I also think  that 
such checks would have shown  that Mr Ds existing commitments meant that he 
wouldnt have been able to repay these loans without undue difficulty  or borrowing 
further. So I think that proportionate  checks would more likely  than not have shown 
Casheuronet that Mr D wouldnt  be able to sustainably  repay  loans one to four.  
By the time of loan five, Mr D had a history of being provided with new loans shortly 
after having  repaid previous ones. So Casheuronet ought  to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr D was having  to borrow further to cover  the hole the 
repayment of his previous loans left in his finances and that Mr Ds indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr D was provided with loans for a pretty much unbroken period of two and a half 
years. So not only was he not making  any real inroads to the amount he owed 
Casheuronet his indebtedness was increasing.  Payday  loan seven was provided  two 
and a half years after Mr Ds first and it was for £1000 more. So Mr D had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a substantially increasing debt to 
Casheuronet over an extended period.
I think that Mr D lost out because Casheuronet provided these  loans because:
they had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the extended period of time Mr D owed  Casheuronet money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
Ref: DRN09137333So Im upholding  this complaint and Casheuronet should put things right.
putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on all of his loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr D owed Casheuronet money means  that any information still 
recorded (if there is any) on his credit file is adverse. So all entries should be 
removed from Mr Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Mr D a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint.  Casheuronet UK LLC (trading 
as Casheuronet)  should pay Mr D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0913733