K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs G says National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
NatWest has already offered to refund all premiums, with interest, to Mrs G for the period 
from 2005 until the policy was cancelled in 2016  as Mrs G was not working  during this time 
and therefore  was not eligible for the cover.  Mrs G has accepted this offer and 
reimbursement has been made to her. As a result this decision will only deal with the issue  
of the sale of the policy in 2002.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs G has said she didnt know she had PPI and she thinks it was added without her 
consent. But I think NatWest made  it clear  that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why she cant  remember this. I say 
this because Ive been given a copy of the credit  card application which  was completed at 
the time and this includes a section about  PPI. In this section there  is a box to tick if cover is 
required and I can see on Mrs Gs form that the box has been ticked. Mrs G has signed the 
form which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered.  If Mrs G didnt want 
to take out the PPI, she could have  left the box blank.
In addition to this, the charge for the premium would have shown as a separate entry on her 
credit card statements.  If Mrs G hadnt  agreed to take out the PPI, or didnt know  what this 
charge was for, I think  she would have raised this with NatWest sooner than she did.
So based  on everything that Ive seen and been  told, I think  NatWest made it clear the policy 
was optional and Mrs G agreed to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide for herself if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI by ticking  the box on the application form 
- so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. And from what 
weve been told it appears Mrs G didnt have any other means with which to meet her 
repayments so it looks  like it could  have provided  her with a useful benefit.  It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
Ref: DRN06007982But NatWest  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  NatWest didnt tell Mrs G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
NatWest has to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. NatWest  should also pay back to Mrs G any extra interest  she 
paid because of that.
NatWest should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back  to Mrs G the difference 
between what Mrs G owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest  should also pay Mrs G 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0600798