K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about Origen Financial Services  Limited. He is unhappy with the 
advice he received about whether to transfer benefits he held in his employers pensions  
scheme. He says that the advice wasnt given  or checked by a pension  transfer specialist  as 
required by the relevant  rules. 
background
Mr P took advice about his pension in June 2018. The advice  was paid for by his employer. 
Origen advised that he should not transfer out of his employers defined  benefit scheme.
Mr P complained to Origen. He said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  rules  
required that pension  transfer advice should be given,  or checked by, a pension transfer 
specialist and that this did not happen in his case.
Origen didnt uphold the complaint. It said, essentially, that the relevant rule required  advice  
to be given, or checked, by a specialist when  a transfer was actually recommended and took 
place. In this case, the recommendation was not to transfer and so the rule didnt apply.
Mr P didnt agree and referred his complaint  to this service. An adjudicator considered the 
complaint but he didnt  think that it should  be upheld.  He disagreed with Origens 
interpretation of the rules  and said that the advice should have involved a pension transfer 
specialist. But there had been  no transfer  and there was nothing  to suggest  that the advice 
given was unsuitable. Mr P had not lost out. The FCA position is that there is a general 
presumption against  transfer out of a defined benefit  pension scheme. He also explained  
that this service is not the regulator.
Mr P didnt accept that view. He said that Origen should not be allowed to breach the rules. 
He also said that there  had been factual errors in the report and the transfer analysis was in 
the name of a company  that didnt exist at the date of the report.
Origen accepted  the view. It said that the factual errors  Mr P raised had already been 
considered and didnt impact  on the advice. And, the company that provided the transfer 
analysis had changed its name  that was all.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and with his reasoning, I dont uphold this complaint. I think  the 
adjudicators interpretation  of the rules is the correct one. Origen was giving advice on a 
pension transfer,  even if the advice  was against  transferring.  So the advice should have 
been given, or checked, by a pension transfer  specialist but it wasnt.
However, the fact that rule may not have  been followed doesnt mean that the advice given 
is automatically defective or wrong.  Mr P held benefits that were, to a large extent, 
guaranteed. Transferring out of a defined benefit  pension scheme  like this one is often a 
relatively high risk strategy. Thats because it involves giving up guaranteed benefits in 
Ref: DRN08040412exchange for non-guaranteed benefits  that will depend on taking investment risk. It is not a 
suitable option for most people. This is reflected in the FCAs rules which include a 
presumption that such a transfer will not usually  be in the best interest  of a pension holder. 
Ive seen nothing  here which suggests that the advice  not to transfer  was unsuitable or not in 
Mr Ps best interest.
Mr P says that there  were factual errors in the reports and that the transfer analysis was 
completed in a company name  that no longer existed at the time. Some of the factual errors 
he has pointed out appear to have  been addressed by Origen in its follow  up with him. For 
example, the adviser had explained that his advice  did take into account the true extent  of 
Mr Ps net assets, and not an overstated figure. Origen has also explained that the business 
that provided the transfer analysis had been  involved  in a merger  and changed  its name. 
This service isnt the regulator. Its not our role to punish a firm where there  have been 
technical rule breaches. Our role is to put things right when something has gone wrong  and 
a consumer has lost out as a result. But Mr P has not suffered any loss in this case. He has 
not lost his pension benefits. He may not agree with the advice and he is free to take advice  
elsewhere if he wishes.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0804041