K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund him for over 550 
transactions he didnt  make.
background
Mr S made four complaints in 2019 about transactions on his Halifax  account which he says 
he didnt make. All of these transactions were  gambling transactions and involved more than 
10 different companies.  These transactions were made from January to August 2019.
Mr S told Halifax a number of stories:  
Hed lost his phone when hed been  in court and then it had been  located;
His sister had used his phone and made  the transactions,  or her partner;
His sister had a history of this type of fraud;
None of the gambling sites would provide Mr S with any information  about the 
transactions;
Mr S would never gamble himself as his beliefs didnt support this; and
Hed been in hospital for a lengthy  period  in March-April 2019. His mother  had made  
some of the transactions at this time under his instruction (none of these were those 
he disputed).
Halifax found Mr Ss story inconsistent. Their own evidence  including records  of Mr Ss 
phone using his Halifax bank app  showed  these transactions were most likely  to have 
been made by him. They rejected his claim. They  also gave him notice of their intention  to 
close his account.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.  Our investigator reviewed the 
evidence. This included copies of many  telephone  conversations between  Mr S and Halifax, 
as well as records of Mr Ss mobile  phone  banking app use. Hed also contacted  one of the 
gambling companies. They were able to share  how the account was set up by Mr S with a 
photograph of himself holding his driving  licence.
Our investigator told Mr S he thought  it was more than likely  hed made  or authorised all of 
these transactions.  He wasnt going  to ask Halifax  to refund Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman  to consider his complaint. 
He also told us of his difficult financial situation  as well as the mental health issues that 
caused him problems.  Theres also evidence to show Mr S was attending court.  He says he 
was attempting  to get custody of his daughter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why. 
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
Ref: DRN07806672is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Halifax and Mr S have told us. Ive also got copies of Mr Ss calls with Halifax, 
his bank statements  and detail of his logons onto his mobile banking  app.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, how the 558 transactions were made and some of 
the supporting  evidence  were comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 
24 December 2019. I dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. Except  to say Im 
satisfied Ive reviewed  the complaint thoroughly.
The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
Its worth  recognising upfront that Mr S has had difficulties with his mental  health  over 
the last year.  Hes had to spend  a period  of time in hospital.
Hes said at different times  that he owns an iPhone and at other times has said he 
doesnt.
Halifaxs evidence shows an iPhone was set up to access Mr Ss mobile phone 
banking app. This was from 2018 onwards and certainly throughout the period  of 
these disputed transactions.
Mr S has set up his fingerprint as an ID for his banking app.
Mr S has told us different stories  about a payment of £2,000  that was made into his 
account from a car dealer than he told Halifax. Whether he sold a car or whether this 
was an overpayment the dealer had made doesnt really stack  up. No car dealer in 
my experience would  overpay someone  and not immediately take this money back.
Mr S has repeatedly said he needed  the money in his account to pay his barrister.  
This was one of the many reasons  including his personal belief system  why hed 
not have gambled  this money away. Hes also said that his barrister only took 
payment in cash. I find this unlikely.
Halifaxs phone banking records confirm Mr Ss fingerprint was used to access his 
mobile banking  app at the same time Mr S has told us his phone  was missing and 
used for gambling  transactions.
The IP address  used  for some  of the gambling  transactions is the same as Mr S 
often uses. Mr S says this is because the transactions were made by his sister. But 
he then told us he saw his phone at his sisters (which seems  to have been at a 
different place).
All of the gambling accounts appear to use Mr Ss name  and personal  details.  These 
do, however, have  a different email address to the one Mr S shared with us. But the 
email address uses the same  format as the one hes given us.
The fraud that happened  in March was after Mr S told Halifax  his card must  have 
been cloned at a cash machine.
According to Mr Ss story at least five frauds took place within a short period and 
were done by at least three different people either using  his card details or actual 
phone, all setting  up gambling accounts  in his name. None of this is credible.
Even if the fraud was only committed by Mr Ss sister, this would require me to 
believe shed been able to obtain  his debit card on five different occasions  (as Halifax 
kept sending Mr S new cards with new numbers).  Again I dont believe this is the 
case.  
The evidence provided to us by one of the gambling companies and Halifax directly  
contradicts what Mr S has told us.
Ref: DRN07806673Im sorry  to tell Mr S that, like our investigator, I think he made these transactions  himself. I 
absolutely appreciate Mr S more  than likely regretted this as soon as hed made them and 
had spent money hed hoped  to use for other reasons. But I have no reasons to ask Halifax  
to refund Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0780667