K821x#15complaint
Miss B complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background
In June 2016, Miss B was insured by Admiral  through a broker.  Miss B temporarily added a 
named driver to her policy. The named driver was involved  in an accident on 11 June 2016 
that was her fault.  
Miss B renewed her policy with Admiral in September 2016 through  the same broker. In the 
summer of 2017, during a discussion Miss B had with Admiral, she asked if when applying  
for future insurance she would have to disclose  the named  drivers  accident. She said that 
Admiral told her she wouldnt have to disclose it.
In September  2017, Miss B applied for a new Admiral policy  through a different broker.  She 
didnt disclose the named drivers  fault accident. The premium  was set at just under £1,100. 
A short time later, Admiral  added  an additional  premium of around £600  because they said 
they found out about the named drivers 2016 accident, which Miss B hadnt disclosed when 
taking out her September 2017  policy. Miss B complained.
Admiral upheld Miss Bs complaint in part. They accepted that she wasnt  given accurate 
information when  she asked whether or not she should disclose the named drivers accident. 
They offered  her £65 compensation. But they said they correctly  recorded the accident 
against Miss Bs driving record on the insurance database because the named drivers fault 
accident was paid out under Miss Bs policy.
As Miss B wasnt  happy with Admirals  decision, she brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He felt that Admiral hadnt  acted fairly and 
suggested and that they were wrong to charge Miss B an additional premium. But as Admiral  
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 13 March 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. I have  to decide  if Admiral have treated Miss B in a fair 
and reasonable way.
recording of the named  drivers accident
Although the accident was caused by the named driver who was only added to the 
policy for a short period  of time,  and not Miss B, Admiral didnt do anything wrong by 
making a record of it against Miss Bs driving record on the insurance database. 
Thats because the claim was paid out from Miss Bs policy. And its normal industry 
practice for a fault accident  by a named driver to be recorded against  the 
policyholders insurance  record.  
charging the additional premium
Ref: DRN00207612Admiral have suggested that what  Miss B did by not disclosing the named drivers 
accident amounted  to, what  is known in the insurance industry, a careless 
misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers 
may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate 
basis (or apply other exclusions or limitations it would otherwise have 
applied). But if the consumer isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel 
the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although 
we think its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of them paying the 
additional premium  for the insurer to then settle  the claim in full instead of settling the 
claim proportionately. But that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has 
been a careless  misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the 
policyholder theres  a problem and give them the option of paying the additional 
premium in order to keep the policy  going or otherwise to cancel the policy 
themselves. Thats because the insurer cancelling  the policy will have serious  
consequences on the policyholder because they will have to declare it when they 
want to take out insurance later on.
Under CIDRA, Miss B had a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. To assess  whether  or not Miss B took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation I have to look to see if Admirals question was clear.  
Admiral have provided me with the online questions  from their application  form from 
September 2015. The relevant question asks: Have you had any motor  accidents, 
claims or losses  in the past 5 years, no matter who was at fault or if a claim was 
made? But the relevant  application was the one Miss B made in September 2017, 
not 2015. Because its in relation to that application that Admiral suggested that Miss 
B made a misrepresentation. But Admiral  havent  provided me with the questions 
asked in September 2017. 
Assuming that the question  in September 2017 was the same as that in 2015, I dont 
think it was clear. Because  the question asks have  you had any motor accidents 
It doesnt ask have you or a named driver had any motor accidents I also take 
into consideration the fact that a few months before  the September  2017 application, 
Miss B specifically asked  Admiral whether she was expected to disclose the named 
drivers accident in future applications  and she was told by Admiral that she didnt  
have to. So I think it was reasonable  for Miss B to rely on that advice.  So I don't think  
that Miss B made, whats referred  to in CIDRA  as, a qualifying misrepresentation. 
That would mean that Admiral  didnt have any of the remedies available  to them 
under CIDRA.
I have been told by Admiral that the policy taken  out in September  2017 was 
cancelled in December  2017. But its not clear by whom the policy was cancelled by. 
If the policy was cancelled by Admiral, I intend to require them to correct  the 
insurance database record to show that the policy was cancelled by Miss B. I also 
Ref: DRN00207613intend to require Admiral to calculate  Miss Bs premium on a pro-rata  basis  for the 
time she was on cover  between September and December  2017  on the basis of 
the original premium, not the amended premium that included  the additional 
premium. If any amount is owing to Miss B that should be refunded  to her and 
Admiral should add simple interest  to any refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
she paid it until she is refunded. And finally, I am aware that this matter  has been a 
source of great distress and inconvenience  to Miss B and has been ongoing for 
around 18 months. To address that, I intend  to require Admiral to pay miss B 
compensation of £400. This amount is in addition to the £65 Admiral have offered to 
pay.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Admiral didnt make  any comments. 
Miss B said the following:
Admiral breached data protection rules.
She asked Admiral to cancel the policy on 8 November 2017, however  it appears that 
it wasnt cancelled until December 2017.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Miss Bs additional comments as follows:
Any concerns  Miss B has about  any alleged breaches of data protection  rules  should 
be raised with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Their official website is 
as follows: https://ico.org.uk/
The date of the cancellation  is important  given it may potentially  have a bearing on 
the refund  Miss B may be due once Admiral  does a pro-rata calculation of her time 
on cover.  Once Admiral calculates  Miss Bs time on cover they should provide  Miss B 
with a letter clearly  setting out the dates the policy was active,  when it was cancelled 
and what Miss B was charged. If Miss B disagrees  with the date of the cancellation  of 
the policy, she can raise a further  complaint  with Admiral  if she feels its appropriate  
to do so.
Ref: DRN00207614my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Correct the insurance database records to show that the policy was cancelled by Miss B 
(if appropriate).
Calculate Miss Bs premium on a pro-rata basis for the time she was on cover between  
September and the date it was cancelled  on the basis of the original premium, not the 
amended premium that included  the additional  premium. If any amount  is owing  to 
Miss B, that should be refunded to her with simple  interest at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date she paid it until she is refunded.1
Pay Miss B £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to her. This 
amount is in addition  to the £65 Admiral  have already offered to pay. This should be paid 
within 28 days of us telling them that Miss B has accepted my final decision. If they pay 
later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Miss B how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0020761