K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mr C says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr C aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  the 
policy to his card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Mr C applied for his card 
and PPI but FICL has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. 
Mr Cs application form had a separate section for PPI where  the option to take the policy 
has been selected. Mr C has told us the sales representative completed the form on his 
behalf, which I dont  think would be unusual. But Mr C has signed the application  in 
agreement with the selections made on it, and as Mr C was agreeing to an important 
financial agreement I would have  expected  his to have read over the document before 
signing in agreement with it. With this in mind I think  its likely FICL made it clear that the PPI 
was optional and that Mr C chose to have  it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI knowing  the other means he had of making  his 
repayments which he says included sick pay and savings. Although when we asked for 
further evidence  of the sick pay and savings nothing further was provided, so I am unable to 
say with certainty how much sick pay and savings Mr C had. In any event the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mr Cs sick pay and protected his savings  to be used towards 
any other essential expenses he may have had. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN02329222Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0232922