K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about repairs  to his car by Covea Insurance plc when he made  a claim on 
his motor insurance following an accident.
background 
Mr R insures his car with Covea. He was involved in an accident and his car was taken in for 
repair by Coveas authorised repairer. 
When the car was returned to him, Mr R wasnt  happy. He said the car made a noise when 
accelerating, which  wasnt present before  the accident. So, he said,  either the car hadnt 
been repaired properly  or it had been  damaged during the repairs. 
The authorised repairer initially  couldnt  hear any noise, but then agreed  that there was a 
noise just audible  at higher revs.  It arranged  for the car to be inspected by an approved 
dealer for that make of car. The dealer inspected the car but couldnt say for sure what was 
causing the noise or whether it was related to the accident. It said the next step would be to 
replace the exhaust flexi pipe.
Covea said the exhaust flexi pipe was unrelated to the accident or repair. It said there was 
no evidence the noise was caused by either.  
Our investigator asked  Covea to instruct an independent engineer to examine the car, which 
it did. 
The independent engineer described the noise  as a slight  noise resonance, only audible 
after several tests at speed. The engineer concluded it did not appear to be a serious  or 
impending fault and a minor fault, with several possible causes. When  asked for further  
clarification, the engineer could not definitively say whether it was caused by the accident  or 
not.
Our investigator said that Covea had done  enough  to investigate the noise, and there  was 
no evidence it was caused by either the accident  or a problem with repair.  Mr R didnt agree. 
He said the noise was coming  from the same  area as the repair,  and it wasnt  there before 
the accident, so must be a result of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the evidence of all the parties who looked at the car  the authorised 
repairer, the dealer, and the independent engineer. But theres no definitive resolution  to the 
problem of the noise Mr R hears.
Its clear from all three that the noise is faint and not always easy  to hear. Its only heard  
when the car is accelerating at high revs.  Theres no definite cause, but theres  also no clear 
fault thats causing it, and nothing to suggest  that the car is undrivable or at any risk.
Mr R says the noise  wasnt there  before the accident. Its not possible to prove that, of 
course. On the one hand, he is clear in his recollection about that. On the other, it does  
Ref: DRN06657152seem to be a faint noise,  only detectable  in certain  driving situations.  And, no doubt, after the 
car was returned to him following the accident  he was more  aware  of the possibility  of things 
going wrong than he was before. 
Its also true that the car has done  almost 80,000 miles in five years, which  would result in 
wear and tear to the engine  and components.  While the repairs  were  in the same part of the 
car as the possible sources of the noise, they werent  directly  impacted. Covea isnt 
responsible for general wear and tear caused by age and use of the car  its only 
responsible for damage caused  by the accident,  and the quality of the subsequent repairs.
I do understand Mr Rs strength of feeling about this. But none of the expert evidence, 
including that of the independent engineer, has suggested that the noise was caused by the 
accident or the subsequent repairs. They dont rule it out  but they dont rule it in either.  And 
Mr R hasnt provided his own evidence, from for example his own engineer, suggesting that 
the noise is caused by a fault with the engine or that any fault was caused  by the accident or 
the repairs.
Covea has tried to find the cause  of the noise.  The car has been  inspected by the approved 
repairer, and by an independent main dealer and an independent expert  engineer. None of 
them has found  a significant fault with the car, or found any evidence that the noise was 
caused by the accident  or the repairs. I think Covea has taken reasonable steps to try to find 
out what the cause is, and whether its related to something Covea is responsible for. As 
theres no evidence  of that, I dont think I can fairly  ask it to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0665715