K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr P was given ten loans  by Satsuma between March 2015 and October 2016. Each of the 
loans was due to be repaid in weekly or monthly instalments. Mr P successfully repaid the 
first nine loans, but a balance remained outstanding  on his final loan when he made his 
complaint to Satsuma.  A summary  of Mr Ps borrowing from Satsuma is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Agreed 
Term
1 15/03/2015 28/04/2015 £   100 13 Weeks
2 29/04/2015 30/04/2015 £   100 3 Months
3 30/04/2015 13/05/2015 £   100 3 Months
4 14/07/2015 16/07/2015 £   100 13 Weeks
5 17/07/2015 24/07/2015 £   100 13 Weeks
6 27/07/2015 03/08/2015 £   200 13 Weeks
7 07/08/2015 23/10/2015 £   140 13 Weeks
8 14/11/2015 25/11/2015 £   100 13 Weeks
9 30/11/2015 25/10/2016 £   260 52 Weeks
10 28/10/2016 - £   600 47 Weeks
Mr Ps complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think Satsuma 
had been wrong  to give the first five loans to Mr P. But he didnt think  the remaining loans 
should have been agreed. So he asked Satsuma  to pay Mr P some  compensation.
Disappointingly Satsuma  didnt respond to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mr P accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN02071492But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr P. It asked him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. It gathered  data from credit  reference agencies about other 
credit repayments that Mr P would need  to make over the coming months.  And it then used 
this information  to calculate  how much  disposable income Mr P had left over each month. 
Satsuma also used  the credit reference  agency checks to gather some more  information 
about Mr Ps financial situation  at that time.
The credit checks that Satsuma did failed to show any information that might have 
suggested Mr P was having problems managing his money. The repayments  that were  
shown by the credit check didnt  appear unaffordable based  on what hed said about his 
normal income and expenditure. And the checks didnt show any other concerning  
information such as a reliance on other short term loans, or a significant number of 
delinquent or defaulted  accounts. 
Ref: DRN02071493The repayments that Mr P had agreed  to make  on his first five loans were relatively modest 
compared to the income that hed declared to Satsuma. And, even after allowing for his 
other borrowing, the repayments appeared to be easily affordable. So given these 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mr Ps circumstances at the time, and his 
borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma  to 
ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending was 
unsustainable before  agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr P asked  for loan 5, that Satsuma should  have  realised that it 
couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances.  I think it should 
have taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Ps true financial position.  We asked 
Mr P for copies of his bank statements so we could  see what better checks  would have 
shown Satsuma. He didnt provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks 
would have shown  Satsuma that it shouldnt  have given loan 5 to Mr P.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Satsumas  lending history with Mr P I think  by loan 6 the 
lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And so Satsuma should  have realised that it shouldnt  provide any further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Mr Ps sixth loan request in just over four months. Each  of the loans 
Mr P has taken  had been repayable  over a period of around three months. But Mr P 
regularly paid those  loans off far earlier than planned, but borrowed a similar amount 
very shortly afterwards. I think that pattern of frequent  borrowing  and repaying  early 
should have indicated to Satsuma that Mr P was most  likely having significant  
problems managing his money.  
By the time Mr P asked for loan 6 hed been  borrowing  from Satsuma for a lengthy 
period and he wasnt making  any inroads  to the amount  he owed the lender. Loan 6 
was by far the largest  loan hed taken to date. 
From  loan 6 onwards  Mr P was provided  with a new loan typically  within a few days  
of settling a previous  one. So Satsuma ought  to have  realised  it was more likely than 
not Mr P was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ps indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
I think that Mr P lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ps 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So I dont  think Satsuma  should have agreed to lend to Mr P from loan 6 onwards. Satsuma 
needs to pay Mr P some compensation.
Ref: DRN02071494putting things right
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to lend to Mr P after, and including,  the loan that 
he took on 27 July 2015 (loan  6). So for each of those loans Satsuma  should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr P on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 9, and loan 10 once  it has been fully 
repaid, should  be removed  from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
If Mr P still owes Satsuma  any of the principal  balance he borrowed on his final loan, 
Satsuma may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments Mr P has made  on that loan as though they were  applied against 
the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Provident Personal Credit  
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0207149