K822xcomplaint
Mr Ss complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited  incorrectly recorded an enforced  
cancellation against his commercial vehicle  insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agent.
background 
Mr S contacted Ageas in 2018 after his insurer checked a shared database and found hed 
had a policy avoided  (which means  cancelled from the start as though it never  existed). 
Ageas initially said it had cancelled the policy rather than avoided  it. But then accepted Mr S 
had cancelled the policy himself. It said it had incorrectly recorded the information on the 
shared database.  Ageas  apologised to Mr S and said it had now amended  the information 
on the database so it was accurate.
Mr S remained unhappy.  He said Ageas error  had led to his new policy being ultimately 
cancelled. He said his new insurer had cancelled his policy and then reinstated it when 
Ageas confirmed it had incorrectly  recorded  the cancellation. But his new insurer  had 
cancelled the policy again for administrative reasons. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. He said £90,000 was a fair and reasonable amount for 
Ageas to pay his compensate for his distress and inconvenience. He said his premiums  had 
increased since having his policy cancelled and hed struggled to get affordable insurance. 
He said hed also lost earnings as he hadnt been  able to work without insurance. 
Our investigator accepted Ageas had made a mistake and thought £250 was a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for it to pay Mr S for his distress and inconvenience. 
She didnt  think hed shown that his other policy had been ultimately cancelled  due to Ageas 
error or been able to evidence the financial losses he said hed experienced.
Ageas accepted the investigators  recommendation but Mr S didnt. He said Ageas shouldnt 
have cancelled his policy in the first place. He said hed lost the deposit hed paid to his new 
insurer and had to pay more for his other  policies.  He said insurers  would have been able to 
see hed had a policy cancelled and charged  him more. He asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss made a number  of detailed points and I hope  he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that 
Im going  to focus on what I see as the main  issues of this complaint.
Ageas said Mr S hadnt told it about  pending convictions when he bought the policy in 2014 
but in an effort to resolve things it said it would pay the claim hed made  at the time and 
cancel the policy afterwards. Ageas then let Mr S cancel the policy  himself.  I understand     
Mr S doesnt  think Ageas  should have tried to avoid or cancel  his policy  but I dont think I 
need to make a finding on this. Thats because Mr S ultimately decided to cancel the policy 
himself. And even if I accepted Ageas shouldnt have forced him to cancel his policy Id only 
be asking it to remove any record of the cancellation and consider any financial losses that 
Ref: DRN08687452have resulted from the cancellation as well as considering compensation, which is what  Im 
already considering here. 
Theres no doubt Ageas made a mistake in how in recorded the cancellation on Mr Ss 
policy. It said its already changed the record so its now accurate. So that means I only need 
to consider any financial losses Mr S suffered as well as his distress and inconvenience.
Insurers base their quotes on the answer a customer gives when buying  the policy. So while 
the database would have  incorrectly shown  Mr S had a policy  cancelled  other  insurers 
wouldnt have quoted using this information. Mr S didnt know about  the cancelled  policy  until 
his new insurer told him about it in December  2017. As he wouldnt have declared it before 
then Im satisfied any premiums up to that date wouldnt have taken account of him having 
had a cancelled  policy.
Mr S thinks  Ageas  is responsible for his new insurer cancelling his policy. I accept that his 
new insurer initially cancelled it because Ageas had made an error. But Ageas provided  the 
correct information  and the new insurer reinstated the policy.  I understand the policy  was 
then cancelled due to administration issues. While I appreciate Mr S might not have been in 
that position if his new insurer hadnt  cancelled the policy  in the first place, I dont think  I can 
reasonably hold Ageas responsible for what happened when his new insurer  needed  to 
validate the new policy, as it wasnt a direct  consequence of Ageas error.  I understand Mr S 
also lost his deposit with this insurer but I dont think thats Ageas fault as the ultimate  
reason for cancellation wasnt due to Ageas error. If Mr S is unhappy with the actions of this 
insurer hed need  to take that up separately. 
Mr S has provided details of other policies he said cost more as he had to declare a 
cancellation. He also said his quotes had increased when looking for policies. I think  this is 
likely but I havent  seen anything to show this is only due to the policy Ageas incorrectly  
recorded as being cancelled. Ive seen one policy from May 2018 that says Mr S had a 
cancellation on his record. He does have a cancellation  but thats due to his new insurer  
deciding to cancel  his policy following administration issues  rather  than Ageas error. So I 
dont think Ageas needs to compensate Mr S for that. 
Mr S also said hed lost earnings  due to not being  able to afford insurance but I havent  seen 
anything other than his comments to support  this. Its not entirely clear how long Mr S wasnt 
able to work for. In one of his emails to us he said hed turned down bookings for a day and 
a half but wasnt  able to evidence this. While  Ive no doubt that it must have been  disruptive 
for him not to have  had use of his van I havent  seen enough to persuade me Mr S has lost 
earnings. So Im not going to ask Ageas to reimburse  him. 
I do however think Ageas  has caused Mr S distress and inconvenience in its error. I 
appreciate Mr S doesnt think £250  is enough to cover what the error has cost him. But I 
havent seen anything other  than his comments to show what  those losses are. For that 
reason Im satisfied £250 is a fair and reasonable amount for Ageas to pay Mr S to 
compensate him for his distress and inconvenience as its in line with similar  awards our 
service makes for cases of similar seriousness.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance  Limited  to 
pay Mr S £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN08687453Ageas should  pay this with 28 days of us telling it Mr Ss accepted my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it should  add interest to the compensation at 8% simple per year from 
the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If Ageas considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0868745