K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in with a credit 
card in 2006. Mr W says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr K says that he thought that the PPI was compulsory, and that he applied  for his card in 
store. M&S has provided information  that shows that Mr K applied for his card through the 
post  this was after M&S  wrote to him in 2005 to say that it was no longer  going to be using 
Visa for its credit card scheme, but was switching to MasterCard. It invited Mr K to apply. 
Mr K was already a customer of M&S, so its likely that hes recalling his Visa card he took 
out with M&S when  he says he took it out in a store. This card has already been  looked in to 
by this service.
M&S has provided a copy of Mr Ks application form. On this I can see that PPI is presented  
as an optional product,  and has been selected  with a tick. Mr K has confirmed the selection 
with his signature. This is separate to his signature for the card.  
So taking everything in to account,  I think M&S  made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take 
out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  
this as it was so long ago.
M&S didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr W got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information M&S gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But M&S has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
M&S  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  M&S didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN07357852Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold think the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back  to Mr W any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0735785