K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  plcs system issues prevented him from accessing his bank  
account online for six weeks. He said he spent hours on the phone  trying to resolve the 
issue, and incurred financial  costs.  He also complains that he recommended his wife switch 
to TSB and was due the £75 incentive   but he didnt receive this until a year later.
background
Mr S complained to TSB in May 2018. He explained that TSBs online issues had greatly 
affected him and caused him to waste a lot of time and suffer  stress.  TSB looked into Mr Ss 
concerns, and offered him £126  for the financial costs he incurred and £150 for the impact  
the matter had on him. 
The adjudicator agreed with TSBs offer and also asked it to pay Mr S the £75 switching 
inducement. 
It took a number of months for TSB to eventually pay the £75, so Mr S said he didnt think  
the compensation he had been  paid was enough.  He thought  that the compensation he had 
been paid for TSBs system issues was separate to the hassle of having  to chase the £75 
payment. So he thought  he should  receive  compensation for the delay in receiving that 
money, as well as the compensation  for TSBs system issues. 
The adjudicator didnt agree and thought TSB neednt do anything more.  As there  was no 
agreement, the case  was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ss comments. I can see that he has asked for an additional £200 
compensation for the delay in paying  him the £75 fee he says he was entitled to. 
TSB has said that there are some doubts  as to whether  Mr S and his wife were in fact 
entitled to the switching  fee. It said that had their account qualified for the incentive, it 
wouldve been paid automatically. However, regardless, it has decided to pay the amount to 
Mr S without investigating his eligibility  further.   
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr S was entitled to the £75. So Im satisfied that it took far 
longer than it should have  to pay it to Mr S. 
The question is, therefore, whether  TSB ought  to compensate Mr S for the stress  and 
inconvenience he says he experienced as a result of this delay.
When our adjudicator wrote to both parties  in August 2018, he asked TSB to pay Mr S the 
£75 as well as the compensation it had already offered to pay. TSB paid the compensation, 
but failed to pay the £75 and Mr S contacted our service again in June 2019 to complain that 
this hadnt happened.   
In putting matters right, this services  approach  isnt to punish businesses or over 
compensate consumers. Its to put to the consumer back in the position they wouldve been  
Ref: DRN05569292in had there been no error. Not all errors by a business will mean that a consumer is entitled 
to monetary compensation. Sometimes, putting the error right is sufficient to remedy any 
injustice which has been caused. 
I can understand why Mr S considers he is entitled  to additional compensation, but Im not 
persuaded that would  be fair. I say this firstly because asking TSB to pay Mr S £200 would 
put Mr S in a much better position than he wouldve been had TSB simply paid the £75 in 
2018. 
But Ive also taken into account Mr S didnt contact  this service until June 2019 to query the 
missing payment  which indicates to me that the matter didnt cause him undue stress  or 
inconvenience during that time.  And once he did get in touch, the matter was resolved very 
quickly. 
Im therefore  satisfied that in paying  the £75 to Mr S, TSB has put matters right and neednt  
do anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSBs  offer of £276  (which includes £126 for costs  incurred)  is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  consider it needs to make a further payment for the delay in crediting 
Mr Ss account with the £75 switching incentive. I understand this payment has already been 
made to Mr S and therefore I dont require TSB to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0556929