K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about Scottish  Widows  Limited.  Hes unhappy  that the proposed  transfer of 
his pension plan to a Qualifying  Recognised  Overseas Pensions Scheme (QROPS) is 
subject to the overseas transfer charge even though he made the request to them  before the 
charge came  in to effect  on 9 March 2017.
background
On 16 February 2017 Scottish Widows received  a request for the transfer of Mr Bs pension 
plan to a QROPS. They wrote to Mr B on 2 March 2017 to explain that they required 
additional documents completed to process  the transfer.
New legislation came  in to effect  on 9 March 2017 that meant  transfers to QROPS  requested  
on or after this date would be taxed at a rate of 25% - subject to various exclusions. This is 
known as the overseas transfer charge.
Scottish Widows  received documents from the receiving scheme on 5 April 2017. These 
were signed  and dated 12 and 29 March 2017.
Scottish Widows  emailed  the receiving scheme on 7 and 26 April 2017  explaining HMRCs  
APSSS263 document had been  revised as of 9 March  2017. They  said they needed  this 
new document to be completed to allow them to proceed with the transfer.
Mr Bs adviser subsequently  contacted  Scottish Widows about the transfer. He was unhappy  
that they were  requesting the completion  of HMRCs  new form as this could  result  in 
potentially higher charges  the overseas  transfer  charge  for Mr B. A complaint was 
registered at this point.
Scottish Widows  didnt  uphold the complaint. They said, after receiving  the transfer request 
on 16 February 2017, there wasnt enough time for them to carry out their due diligence 
checks and receive the correct paperwork  before the deadline of 9 March 2017. And so, as 
they hadnt received all the required paperwork by this point, they had to adhere to the 
legislation in place  when all of their requirements  would  be met. 
The complaint was referred  to our service.  One of our investigators looked  in to the matter 
but he didnt think  the overseas transfer charge  should be applied. He said the request was 
made before 9 March 2017 and that the guidance published by HMRC, in respect of 
transfers to QROPS, made it clear that these werent subject to the charge. And that the 
guidance doesnt suggest it should  be applied as a result  of Scottish Widows requirements 
not being met by 9 March  2017.
Mr Bs pension  plan wasnt transferred and he told us that this was as a result  of the dispute 
about the 25% charge.  Our investigator thought  that had it not been for him being wrongly 
told that the charge would be applied, the transfer  wouldve  gone  ahead.  So he 
recommended that Scottish Widows cover the cost of the overseas transfer charge (if it 
applied). He also thought  £100 should  be paid to Mr B for the inconvenience this matter  had 
caused him.
Scottish Widows  disagreed with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to 
review.
Ref: DRN07784602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The HMRC  guidance  explains that transfers  requested before 9 March 2017 are not liable to 
the overseas transfer charge. I understand Scottish  Widows  dont dispute  Mr B made his 
request before this date. But rather they dont consider Mr Bs request was one that required 
them to take action, in such that they didnt have  all of the documentation required to allow  
them to process a payment (transfer) under the terms of the plan. And so because  of this, 
they dont think  the proposed transfer is excluded from the overseas transfer charge as it 
wasnt binding on them before 9 March 2017.
Ive carefully considered  what Scottish Widows has said but I dont think  the overseas 
transfer charge  was applicable to Mr Bs transfer request. Ill explain why.
The HMRC  guidance,  on whether the transfer is taxable, directs  scheme administrators to 
see 2.22 for the meaning of date of transfer request. It says:
A transfer  request is when a member has made  a substantive request to the scheme 
administrator of their pension scheme on which the scheme administrator is required  
to take action in relation to the transfer.  This means an instruction from the member  
to transfer £X or X% of their pension funds  to a named overseas pension scheme. A 
casual enquiry is not a transfer request.
Ive considered the transfer request made by Mr Bs QROPS provider on his behalf and Im 
satisfied its more than a casual enquiry. I say this because  it specifically asks for Mr Bs 
pension plan to be transferred to the new scheme.  And it refers  to documentation attached 
including HMRC forms, which it appears were required for the transfer to take place. It also 
goes on to say:
We hope all is in order to proceed with the transfer.  If you require any further  
information about this client please  do not hesitate to contact  us via email  or 
telephone.
So it appears to me that it met the definition of a transfer request set out in section 2.22 of 
the guidance as it specifically asked  Scottish  Widows to take action in relation to the 
transfer. Taking all of this into account I think its fair and reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of this case to interpret this as a transfer request.
Ive also taken in to account that the HMRC guidance, under section 3.1 to 3.8, divides the 
process of transferring from a registered pension  scheme or a QROPS  into eight stages. 
The first is:
1.Member requests  transfer.
Further stages include:
2.The scheme administrator/manager tells the member what  information they need 
before they can make  the transfer.
4.Due diligence  checks should be completed by the scheme administrator/manager 
before making the transfer.
Ref: DRN077846035.The scheme administrator/manager establishes  if the transfer is liable to the 
overseas transfer charge.
I consider the above makes a clear  distinction  between a member requesting a transfer and 
the actions of a scheme administrator. Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair to 
interpret take action  in relation to the transfer as the point at which  a transfer  could be 
completed. I think its reasonable to conclude  that actions required of a scheme 
administrator include  those to facilitate the transfer,  such as due diligence checks and the 
request for documentation, as outlined in the eight stages of HMRCs  guidance.
Im therefore  satisfied Mr B made his transfer  request before 9 March 2017.  The HMRC 
guidance, under section  2.21 and 3.17, says that transfers requested before this date arent 
liable to the overseas transfer charge. And so, while the transfer may not have been able to 
proceed at that point,  it wasnt  subject to the overseas transfer charge. 
Mr B has confirmed  that he still intends  to transfer his pension  plan to his QROPS.  I 
therefore consider  Scottish Widows should  pay any overseas transfer  charge, if now 
applicable; to ensure  Mr B isnt disadvantaged by what has happened.  I also think  the £100 
recommended by the investigator for the trouble this caused  Mr B is fair, so this should  also 
be paid to Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Scottish Widows  Limited should pay any overseas transfer charge, if applicable, to the 
transfer of Mr Bs pension  plan to his Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pensions Scheme. 
They should  also pay him £100  for the trouble  this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0778460