K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 1998. Miss H says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Miss H didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that 
it was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover   which wouldve paid out for 
longer than her sick pay if shed  successfully made a claim.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Miss H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss H.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because Bank  of Scotland  
didnt tell Miss H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said. But these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN04469642my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0446964