K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about how Hopwood Ash Limited  dealt  with Mr R and Ms Ws attempts to 
replace a buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgage with a residential mortgage in 2018.
background
The complaint has its origins in a much broader complaint that Mr R and Ms W brought 
against Hopwood  Ash in connection  with their acquisition  of the property they own and 
currently occupy. 
In a decision dated 13 November 2019,  I confirmed why the Financial Ombudsman Service 
had no jurisdiction to consider  the circumstances that led to Mr R and Ms W having a BTL 
mortgage on the property that is their home. I also explained why the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service had no jurisdiction to consider the circumstances that led to Mr R having a County 
Court Judgement against him. All I could look into was how Hopwood  Ash handled two 
attempts during 2018 to find them a residential  mortgage to repay the BTL.  I do that here.
In the summer  of 2018, Mr R and Ms W contacted Hopwood Ash about  re-mortgaging on a 
residential basis; as part of that contact,  Mr R provided Hopwood  Ash with a copy  of his 
credit file. At this stage, however, there  was a problem  with affordability.  They tried again  in 
December 2018,  and this time Hopwood Ash said they faced a bigger problem with getting  a 
residential mortgage. 
Apparently, unbeknownst  to him, Mr Rs former employer had taken legal action over a 
salary dispute and had obtained a county court judgement (CCJ).  Alongside that, Hopwood 
Ash said theyd failed  to disclose a monthly car payment  in Ms Ws name. 
Mr R and Ms W say theyre now forced to look to non-mainstream lenders, whose rates  are 
much higher  than the best available  for consumers with good credit records. They  blame 
Hopwood Ash for this, largely for reasons arising from the sequence of events we have no 
jurisdiction to look into. 
But they also say Hopwood Ash was negligent  in failing  to notice the CCJ on Mr Rs credit 
file when it first received  it in the summer  of 2018. They say if Hopwood Ash had drawn 
Mr Rs attention to it immediately, he could have settled the debt and satisfied the judgement  
in time to have it removed  from his credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The complaint that I actually have the 
power to consider is much simpler than its been made to look.  
I appreciate Mr R and Ms F feel aggrieved  that Hopwood Ash had Mr Rs credit file in its 
possession for about six months before noticing and informing him of the CCJ. Thats 
unfortunate, but its not the reason Mr R and Ms W are limited  to non-mainstream lenders for 
their re-mortgage.
Setting aside the CCJ for a moment  (I will come  back to it) the first attempt to re-mortgage 
failed because Mr R and Ms W couldnt  show they had the income to satisfy  prospective 
Ref: DRN05683182lenders that the amount  they wanted  to borrow would be affordable. That wasnt down  to any 
mistake or shortcoming on Hopwood  Ashs part. 
Meanwhile the second attempt failed because, when Hopwood Ash asked  Mr R and Ms W if 
they had any other  existing credit liabilities, they both said no. Unfortunately, that wasnt  
quite true, as Ms W had a finance agreement for the supply of a car. It was only £89 a 
month, but the amount  wasnt the problem. Rather, it was the failure to disclose it. It may be 
have been a simple  error or oversight,  but it seems prospective lenders didnt see things that 
way. That might seem harsh,  but again  it wasnt down to anything Hopwood  Ash did, or 
failed to do.
I said Id return to the question of Mr Rs credit  file. Arguably, Hopwood Ash should have 
noticed the CCJ earlier than it did, but I think its also fair to say that Mr R should have done 
so too. After all, this was his credit file, and he supplied it to Hopwood Ash in the first place. I 
cant fairly take Hopwood  Ash to task for being  slow to tell Mr R about a piece of information 
that was in his hands  the whole  time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0568318