K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2009.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ds account when  he completed an online application form for a credit  card.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  because  I dont  think Barclays gave  him clear 
enough information about the policy. Ill explain why. 
Barclays didnt recommend the sale.  But Barclays still had to provide Mr D with enough 
information for him to decide  whether the policy was right for him. The terms and conditions  
that likely  apply to Mr Ds policy say that he wasnt able to claim for any condition  he knew  
about or saw a doctor about in the 12 months  before the sale.  And Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest Mr Ds attention was drawn  to this limitation.
What I need to think about  is whether  Mr D wouldve bought the policy  if hed been  given  the 
right information  not whether or how long Mr D took time off for his condition. Mr D told us he 
suffered symptoms related to his medical condition in the 12 months before the policy  was 
taken out. He says that this caused  him to take some time off work. Thinking about the nature of 
the condition and everything  hes told us, I think its likely that it wouldve been at the forefront of 
his mind when deciding if he might want cover  to protect his card payments  in the event he was 
unable to work. 
So I think Mr Ds medical condition wouldve played an important role in his decision on 
whether to purchase a policy including accident  and sickness  cover.  And given the nature of 
Mr Ds condition, I dont think that he wouldve bought the policy if hed been told  as he 
shouldve done   he wouldnt be able to claim if he couldnt work because  of it. I dont think 
Mr D wouldve bought  the policy if hed been  provided with clear  enough  information.  So, I 
think Mr D has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong.
Barclays says theyve  seen no evidence that Mr D would have to take more than 28 days  off 
work for this condition.  But just because Mr D had not taken prolonged period of time of work 
in relation to this condition in the past doesnt  mean  this would always  be the case. For the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think he wouldve bought the policy  if it had been made clear 
he wouldnt  be able to claim  for this condition. So this doesnt change  my decision.
fair compensation
Ref: DRN05756962Im intending  to say that Barclays should put Mr D in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  
taken out the PPI. So Barclays should:
A.find out how much  Mr D would  have owed when he closed his credit card account  if the 
policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr D owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.add simple  interest on the difference  between what Mr D would have owed  when he 
closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.also pay simple interest  on the extra Mr D paid - if when Barclays  works out what  Mr D 
would have owed each  month  without  PPI he paid more than enough to clear  his 
balance. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr D wouldve owed  
Barclays something  on his credit card. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
D.tell Mr D what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint  and say that Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mr D redress as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0575696