K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Insurance Factory Ltd mis-sold her a car insurance policy,  as it didn't
tell her she would be unable to add a partner as an additional driver at a later date.
background
Miss B bought  a car insurance policy through Insurance Factory. She included her parents 
as additional drivers  on the policy when she bought it.
She tried to add her partner onto the policy at a later date but was told that this wouldn't  be 
possible, as the policy only allows the policyholder's  parents to be added  as additional 
drivers. She cancelled the policy  and was charged  a £40 cancellation  fee.
Miss B complained to Insurance Factory on the basis she'd been mis-sold the policy. She 
said she always intended to add on her partner and wouldn't  have taken  out the policy  if 
she'd known this wouldn't be possible.  She also said she shouldn't  have been  charged a 
cancellation fee.
Insurance Factory  didn't uphold the complaint. It said Miss B should have explained that she 
intended to add on her partner  when  she bought  the policy. It said it couldn't be expected  to 
explain all the criteria for adding extra drivers  at the point of sale.  It also said its cancellation 
fee was standard and couldn't be refunded. Miss B wasn't happy with the response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and upheld the complaint.  He said that, as it is 
unusual for the policyholder to only be able to add their parents as additional drivers.
Insurance Factory  should have made this clear from the start. He thought  Insurance  Factory 
should refund the cancellation fee and pay Miss B £100 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Insurance Factory  disagreed with our investigator's  view and asked for an ombudsman's 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 July 2019. In the findings  section,  I said the following:
The rules  all insurers operate under and good  industry practice means  insurers  should 
provide enough information to enable customers to make informed decisions about the 
policies they are selling. This includes making customers  aware of the main exclusions  and 
limitations of a policy at the point of sale. The rules  go on to say that the information required 
will depend  on the knowledge, ability and experience of a typical  customer. So insurers need 
to ensure they outline what most customers will need to know  about, in order  to make an 
informed decision.  General principles for insurers also requires them to provide information  
that is fair, clear and not misleading while treating their customers fairly. So I need  to decide 
if Insurance Factory  have  met these obligations  when it sold Miss B her policy.
Miss B says Insurance  Factory should  have made it clear that she wouldn't be able to add 
her partner to the policy when she bought  it. Insurance Factory  said that the fact the insurer  
concerned limits who can be added as additional  drivers, isn't an exclusion or limitation. It is 
instead part of the criteria the insurer uses when  making a decision about whether they will 
allow the policyholder to add an extra driver. I think this is an important distinction. The 
criteria used by insurers covers a much broader range of factors and can change at their 
Ref: DRN04547252discretion. This makes it much more difficult for businesses selling insurance  to highlight 
them.
It is also important to consider whether the fact that only parents can be added  as additional 
drivers is something that would need  to be highlighted to most  of Insurance  Factory's 
customers, in order  for them to make an informed decision. As it isn't a term of the policy, I 
don't think  it is. This is because I don't think  it is a factor that would affect most people's 
decision. I therefore don't think Insurance Factory needed to mention this criteria when it 
sold Miss B her policy.
If Miss B had said that she intended  to add her partner as a named driver at a later date, 
then I think Insurance  Factory's would have  needed to explain this wouldn't  be possible if 
she went ahead with the policy. Otherwise it wouldn't have been treating Miss B fairly,  as it 
would have known  she was agreeing to buy a policy that she would later find out she'd need 
to cancel. However, without Miss B volunteering the information. Insurance  Factory  was only 
required to provide information that would be necessary for most customers  to make  an 
informed decision.
I have also considered the information that Insurance Factory  did provide when it sold the 
policy. It gave information about the main limits of the policy  including a key facts document  
that offered  a concise version of the limits  and exclusions. I therefore think  the information  it 
provided was clear,  fair and not misleading and would have given most customers  the 
opportunity to assess if the policy was right for them. So I am satisfied it met its obligations 
when it sold Miss B her policy.
It is also relevant to bear in mind that Insurance Factory didn't recommend the policy.  It 
therefore didn't  need to check the policy  was exactly right for Miss B to make  a 
recommendation, but just to provide enough  information for her to make  this decision 
herself. As I've already said, I think it did this.
I have also considered the cancellation  fee, as Miss B said Insurance Factory should refund 
this. Insurance  Factory  has said this is a standard charge  and it is common practice for a fee 
to be charged for prematurely cancelling a policy. In this case, as Miss B wanted to have her 
partner as a named driver, it had no option  but to cancel the existing policy, as she didn't 
want to continue it without  adding him. I have considered the fee and I think  £40 is a fair 
amount based  on standard  charges in the industry. It is also highlighted in Insurance  
Factory's terms and conditions. I therefore don't think  Insurance  Factory have been  unfair  by 
charging a fee so it wouldn't be fair to ask it to refund it.
In summary,  I think Insurance Factory met its obligations when it sold Miss B her policy  and
was entitled to charge the cancellation  fee when it cancelled  her policy. This means  I don't
think Miss B's complaint  should be upheld.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
I gave both parties until 26 August 2019 to respond  to my provisional decision. 
Insurance Factory  has said it has nothing further  to add. 
Miss B has responded to say that she doesnt  agree. Shes  said she didnt  think it was fair to 
be limited to only being able to add her parents as additional drivers, when she may wish to 
Ref: DRN04547253add someone at a later date. She says that if she had known about the restriction, she 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss B feels she has been treated  unfairly and I can appreciate it would be 
frustrating to find out she cant add on her partner to the insurance policy. However, after 
considering her points,  I still dont  think Insurance Factory has acted  unfairly. 
As I outlined  in my provisional decision,  businesses  that sell insurance are required to 
ensure they outline what most  customers will need  to know  about a policy  in order  for them 
to make an informed decision.  I think Insurance Factory provided enough information about 
the policy in order  for Miss B to do this. Therefore, Insurance Factory met its obligations  and 
I cant say it treated Miss B unfairly.  Therefore my view remains  the same as I outlined in my 
provisional decision. And I still dont think its appropriate for me to uphold  Miss Bs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Miss Bs 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman manager
Ref: DRN0454725