K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund disputed cash  withdrawals made  from 
his account.
background
Between 20 and 23 January 2018,  a range of cash withdrawals were made using Mr S 
credit card. The total value of the withdrawals was £1,903.50. Mr S says that these 
withdrawals were not carried out or authorised by him.
On 20 January he made a card payment of £88.84 in a local off licence.  The period of 
disputed account  activity started  a few hours later the same  day. He only noticed this when 
he received a text message from Lloyds and discovered that his card was missing.
Mr S complained to Lloyds who declined to refund the transactions.  Its evidence  showed that 
each transaction  had been with the genuine  card and the personal  identification  number 
(PIN) was used each time. Mr S said that he hadnt written the PIN down. He also said that 
he doesnt think anyone  observed him entering  his PIN in the off licence. He also said that, 
after making this payment, he put the card in his shirt pocket. 
Mr S told Lloyds  that he hadnt  left the house during the period in which these transactions 
were carried  out and so they couldnt have been carried out by him.
Lloyds said it wouldnt refund the transactions  and so the complaint was referred to this 
service. It was looked at by an investigator  who thought that Mr S carried  out the withdrawals 
or authorised someone else to do so on his behalf. She felt it was extremely  unlikely that his 
card couldve  been stolen without Mr S noticing  given that it was kept in his shirt pocket. And 
even if it had been stolen or perhaps  fallen  out of his pocket, it wouldnt explain how the PIN 
had become known  to the person that acquired the card.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He pointed out that there were attempts made 
to use the card after hed called Lloyds  to report the transactions,  which shows  it cant  have 
been him. He also said that he thought Lloyds ought to have noticed this unusual pattern of 
activity on his account and blocked  his card. Because Mr S disagreed  with the investigators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The basic  position  is that Lloyds can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.  For 
each transaction,  Lloyds  has been able to provide evidence showing that the genuine card 
was used, the chip was read and the PIN entered correctly. But that isnt enough on its own 
for it to hold Mr S liable.
I also need to consider  whether Mr S consented to these transactions.  And as I cant  know  
for certain  what happened when these withdrawals were made,  I need  to consider the 
Ref: DRN08235632evidence on the balance of probabilities and decide whether its more  likely than not that Mr 
S consented to them. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr S liable for them.  
Mr S told us that only this credit card was taken  (and not his other bank card) and that they 
were kept in his shirts breast pocket. It seems far-fetched that the credit card (and only the 
credit card) couldve been taken from here without him noticing. Im also mindful of the fact 
that he says there was no record of his PIN with the card and he doesnt  believe he was 
observed entering the PIN when he made a payment at the off licence. Even if the card had 
fallen out of his pocket,  it would be of little use to someone  unless they also knew his PIN. 
Overall, as I cant  see that there was any opportunity for the security of his card to be 
compromised by a potential fraudster, I dont think its likely thats what happened here.
Ive considered what Mr S has told us about where  he was when  these withdrawals were  
made. When he initially reported them to Lloyds, he said that it was impossible for him to 
have carried them out because he hadnt left the house during that period. But in later 
conversations with this service, he said that he had been to visit his parents who live nearby. 
He told the investigator  that he regards his parents house as home because he lived there 
for such a long time. But when he spoke with the business, he said Ive not been  out the 
house  I think the meaning of that phrase is clear. Im reluctant to attach much weight to Mr 
S recollections in the light of this inconsistency.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not that Mr S authorised  the 
disputed payments and it follows that Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for them. Mr S 
argued that these  transactions  were  out of character.  He thinks  Lloyds shouldve  spotted the 
pattern and blocked the card. I agree that they were out of character. But since  Ive found 
(on balance)  that he authorised them, I cant say that Lloyds  ought  to have taken steps to 
stop them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0823563