K820x#14complaint
Miss T and Miss D have  complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) packaged bank account to them in 2008.  
background
Our adjudicators looked at Miss T and Miss Ds complaint and didnt think  BOS had mis-sold  
the URCA.  Miss T and Miss D disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Miss T and Miss Ds complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Miss T and Miss D. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Miss T and Miss D were given a clear choice in taking this 
account. At this point,  I should explain that I have to make my decision based on what  I think 
is most  likely  to have happened. When the parties to a complaint disagree about what 
happened (such  as here) and theres a lack of evidence  from the time,  I have  to think about  
what I have been  provided with, what  I do know and the wider  circumstances at the time. 
In other  words, what l have to do, in this case,  is decide what  I think is likely to have 
happened having weighed up what both Miss T and Miss D and BOS have been  able to 
provide me with.  
Miss T and Miss D upgraded  to a fee paying URCA from a free account theyd had for a 
couple of years. So I think Miss T and Miss D wouldve known that BOS  did free accounts 
and they couldve  had one of those  if thats  what they wanted. Miss T and Miss D say they 
were told they had to have the URCA to get a credit  card and improve their credit  rating.  But 
that they were  refused a credit card. 
I dont know what Miss T and Miss D were told. But theyve said that their credit  card 
application was refused.  So I think that they wouldve known that the URCA might not have 
helped their credit rating. And while Ive thought about what  theyve said about being  told 
that the account would help them get a mortgage,  as Miss T and Miss D didnt get a 
mortgage with BOS, their actions in keeping the account despite this dont support their 
argument that they were misled in the way they say they were.  
Overall having thought  about everything  Ive seen, I think its likely  Miss T and Miss D were 
given a clear choice on taking the URCA. I think its most likely  they agreed  to the URCA as 
they, at the time at least, thought the benefits  package as a whole might prove useful to 
have.  
Ref: DRN09382862Having looked  at everything provided, I havent seen anything  to suggest BOS  carried out an 
assessment of Miss T and Miss Ds demands and needs before selling the URCA, which is 
what shouldve happened if the account had been  recommended. So I dont  think that the 
URCA was recommended to Miss T and Miss D. And this means  BOS  didnt have to check  if 
the URCA was right for Miss T and Miss D - it was up to them to do this instead. But BOS 
did have to give Miss T and Miss D clear enough  information to do this. 
When Miss T and Miss D were sold their URCA, the main benefits  included were travel  
insurance, breakdown  cover and preferential overdraft terms. It looks  like Miss T and Miss D 
were relying  on the travel  insurance. And they used  the breakdown cover too. The 
information Ive seen indicates they had an overdraft they used  and as a result they 
benefitted from the preferential overdraft terms. So I think that they had a need for these 
benefits and found having them useful.
I accept Miss T and Miss D might not have needed all the benefits on the URCA.  For 
example, Ive seen  what theyve said about  not wanting  or needing home emergency cover  
and that they couldnt  use the mobile  phone insurance. But it wasnt possible to have some 
of the benefits  without  also having the others too. And Id also point out that not needing all 
the benefits doesnt mean the account was mis-sold. 
I think Miss T and Miss D used some of the benefits  on the URCA and they were  eligible for 
and couldve  used  others too. So while Im open  to the possibility  Miss T and Miss D werent  
told everything they needed  to know about  each and every  one of the benefits,  I think  they 
most likely received enough to know what they were  agreeing  to. And as I havent seen 
anything in their circumstances to suggest  they wouldve  been  affected by any of the main 
limitations or exclusions on the insurance  benefits  (at the time the account was sold), I dont 
think clearer information wouldve stopped them from taking  the URCA in the first place. 
Miss T and Miss D may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think  they shouldnt  have 
upgraded. And given what they mightve  read or heard  about  packaged accounts in general, 
I can understand why they believe their URCA mightve been mis-sold. But I think that         
Miss T and Miss Ds actions suggest  they chose to take the URCA having an appreciation of 
what it included. So I want to reassure  Miss T and Miss D that having  looked at the 
information provided and thought about  everything  theyve said, I dont think the URCA was 
mis-sold to them.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss T and Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask                            
Miss T and Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0938286