K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr G was given four loans  by Lending  Stream between April and October 2017. Each of 
the loans was repayable in six monthly  instalments  and they have all been  fully repaid. 
A summary  of Mr Gs borrowing from Lending Stream is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 06/04/2017 29/09/2017 £ 560
2 24/08/2017 28/02/2018 £ 600
3 23/09/2017 31/01/2018 £   50
4 15/10/2017 28/02/2018 £ 400
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought  that the checks 
Lending Stream had done before agreeing the first three loans had been sufficient. And 
although he thought that Lending Stream should  have done more  checks  before giving Mr G 
the final loan,  he thought  that better checks would still have suggested that the loan was 
affordable. So he didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether 
Mr G could afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, and his lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks Lending  Stream had to do.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr G. Before agreeing 
each loan it asked  him for details of his income,  and his normal  monthly expenditure. And it 
checked Mr Gs credit score before each loan too.
Each of Mr Gs loans was repayable in six instalments. So the amounts that Mr G needed  to 
repay each  month were  smaller  than if hed taken a normal payday  loan.  But of course he 
was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. And Mr Gs loans 
overlapped too. At the time he asked  for his final loan, he hadnt repaid loans 2 or 3. So 
when Ive looked at the repayments Mr G needed  to make each month Ive considered the 
combined amounts  he would need to pay to Lending Stream.
Ref: DRN00502642I think the checks that Lending  Stream did before agreeing the first three  loans were 
proportionate. The repayments that Mr G needed to make appeared to be easily  affordable 
based on what hed said about his disposable income. These loans  were  at the start of 
Lending Streams  relationship with Mr G and it had little indication that his finances  were 
under pressure. I think the fact that Mr G started  taking additional borrowing before repaying  
his earlier  loans might  have caused  some  concerns to Lending Stream. But on balance  
I think it was reasonable  for Lending Stream to base its checks on the information  Mr G 
provided. And that suggested that he could afford  the loans.
But I think Lending Stream  should  have done more  before agreeing the final loan. This was 
now Mr Gs fourth lending  request  in the space of six months.  And when he asked for this 
loan he still had a number of repayments outstanding on his second  and third loans. I think  
this should have suggested  to Lending  Stream that Mr G might  be experiencing some  
financial pressures. Although I still think it was reasonable  for Lending  Stream  to base its 
affordability assessment  on information that Mr G provided, I think it should have asked him 
some very specific questions about  any other  short term loans that he was already 
committed to repaying.
But although  I dont  think the checks Lending Stream  did on the final loan were  sufficient, 
that in itself doesnt mean that Mr Gs complaint should succeed. Id also need  to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown 
Lending Stream that Mr G couldnt sustainably afford the loans. So Ive looked at Mr Gs 
bank statements, and what  hes told us about his financial  situation,  to see what better 
checks would have  shown  Lending Stream.
As I said earlier I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream  to use what  Mr G said about his 
disposable income as the basis for its affordability  assessment. When he applied for the 
fourth loan Mr G told Lending Stream that he had £1,900 left over each month. After 
considering what  hed said Lending  Stream reduced that disposable income  to reflect  
general statistical data about normal expenditure. So Lending Stream  concluded Mr G had 
just over £1,700  disposable income each  month.
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Gs bank  statements  from the time. And I can see that he was also 
borrowing from another short term lender at the same  time as he took these loans from 
Lending Stream. But when he asked  Lending Stream  for the fourth loan he was only 
committed to repaying just over £100 to the other  lender. And so since  his highest combined 
repayment on loans  2 to 4 would  be just over £430 I think it would have  been  reasonable for 
Lending Stream to conclude this was affordable even if it had done the better checks  Ive 
described.
I appreciate that Mr G says his financial situation was far worse than what  Ive described 
above. But that wasnt something  that he told the lender at the time he asked for the loans. 
I think Lending Stream was entitled  to base  its assessment on the information Mr G 
provided. And even  if it had taken account of the additional short  term lending  expenditure at 
the time of the final loan, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream  to conclude  the loans 
were affordable for Mr G.
Ref: DRN00502643my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0050264