K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the service hes received from National Westminster  Bank Plc 
(Natwest). 
background
In January 2019 Mr G received a letter and a tax form to return in the post. It looked like it 
had come from his bank, Natwest. But Mr G had concerns about  the authenticity of the letter. 
He says this was because the letter had numerous  errors which  included a website address 
which did not exist.  He was concerned the letter  might be part of a fraud or scam.
So, on 3 January 2019 Mr G called Natwest on a number  he knew  to be genuine. Natwest 
apologised. They confirmed to Mr G that the letter had come  from their tax department, 
wasnt part of a scam and that they were  aware  of the errors.  They  advised him to call the 
number on the letter (which was correct). 
The call handler explained  that their tax department  is on a different system and she isnt 
able to help with any enquiries  beyond  confirming the letter is genuine. She wasnt able to 
transfer him to tax department as the call was in the evening, after that department  had 
closed. It was also explained to Mr G, that if he was still concerned he could go into a branch 
and they would confirm the letter was genuine.
The following  day Mr G called the tax department.  He again highlighted the errors on the 
letter. The call handler again explained  they were  aware of the errors  and confirmed  the 
letter was genuine.  Mr G is advised  to call the number displayed on his debit card and ask to 
be transferred to the tax operations department  if he still has concerns. 
It is also explained that it isnt mandatory  to complete and return the form, so Mr G isnt 
obliged to take any action. The call handler explains banks are required to report  the tax 
status of all their customers to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs  (HMRC). And if Mr G 
didnt want to complete  the form, they would  report based on the information  they already 
held. 
Mr G made  further calls to Natwest in relation to this matter.  He isnt happy  with the service 
he received and also said he was promised call backs that never  happened   so he 
complained. Natwest  responded and accepted that overall the service theyd provided 
couldve been better. They offered a total of £100  compensation and £10 towards Mr Gs call 
costs. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this and referred  his complaint to our service. He wants  Natwest to 
contact HMRC on his behalf and accept responsibility for him not completing the form. He 
would like £250 compensation  and a written guarantee that a situation like this wont occur  
again. 
One of our investigators  thought the compensation Natwest had already offered  was fair. So 
he didnt recommend that they needed to do more. As he still disagrees, Mr G has asked for 
an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
Ref: DRN00849752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint or asking 
Natwest to take any further action.  Let me explain why. 
I think Mr G was very prudent in contacting Natwest on 3 January 2019 when he received 
what I agree  appears  to be a suspicious letter. This was a sensible course  of action, 
particularly using a number for Natwest  that he knew  to be correct,  not the one on the letter 
in the first instance.  
But within the first few minutes  of the call, he had been advised that the letter  was genuine, 
and been provided with further options for even more confirmation such  as going  into a 
branch. Natwests inability to put him through  to the tax department  is understandable given 
it was closed at the time of the call, which was around 7pm. Further to this it was explained 
to Mr G during his call with the tax department the following  day that he wasnt obliged to 
return the form and could ignore it if he wished. 
I think Mr G ought  to have known the letter  was genuine following his first call to Natwest on 
3 January 2019. Natwest have explained that there  is no consequence to Mr G failing to 
respond to the letter. But even if there were, I think that responsibility would sit with Mr G, as 
it had been confirmed to him the letter was genuine.
Natwest accept both that their letter had errors and that the service  provided during the 
multiple calls Mr G made to them in relation to this matter fell below the standards  they aim 
for. So all that remains  to decide is what should  be done to put things right. I can quite 
understand why Mr G was initially concerned. And why he was upset that he wasnt  called 
back as he expected. But looking at the complaint  as a whole,  I think  the £110 that has 
already offered is fair compensation.  So Im not going to require Natwest  to do anything  
further. If this compensation hasnt already been  paid, I recommend Mr G contacts Natwest  
to arrange this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0084975