K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  them  two payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out two loans  with BoS. At the same time they bought PPI policies which  
wouldve covered  the repayments on their loan for up to a year at a time if Mr M was made 
redundant, and for up  to five years  at a time if Mr M was too ill to work.  
Mr and Mrs M say they dont remember applying for the PPI. They say they didnt know 
there was an extra  cost for the PPI. 
The adjudicator thought  that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr and Mrs M 
disagree, so the case has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when looking at Mr and Mrs Ms case. Having done so, Im not upholding 
their complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached  this decision.
Mr and Mrs M took a number of loan with BoS.  Im looking only at those taken in 2001 and 
2003. Essentially  the method of sale and Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances were the same for 
both the loans, so I shall deal with them both together.  
Mr and Mrs M say they dont remember applying for the PPI. Mr M appears to allude to a 
conversation he had about  the PPI, but he indicates that he thought the cost was included  in 
his interest payments and there wouldnt  be anything more to pay. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs M might  not have  clear  recollections given that so many years 
have passed since the sales. BoS has been  able to provide both the credit  agreements and 
the PPI applications in each sale. The optional nature of the PPI was made  clear,  and Mr 
and Mrs M elected to take it both times. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M bought the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it. And Im satisfied they also understood there  was an 
additional cost,  as this is clearly  set out. 
BoS say it advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the policies. This means BoS had a duty to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policies were  right for them. Looking at their 
circumstances at the time of each sale I think that the PPI was suitable for them. I say this 
because:
Mr M, whom the policies covered, was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been 
affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more  difficult  for him to make a 
successful claim,  such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment;
Ref: DRN03019072Mr M didnt have any contractual sick pay entitlement  or savings.  So if he hadnt  
been able to work due to ill health I think the policies  wouldve offered  a useful 
benefit. The loans were  secured against  their home,  and were  for a significant sum 
each time. If Mr and Mrs M hadnt  been  able to keep up their repayments  their home 
could have been at risk;
Mr M hasnt told us of any contractual redundancy entitlement.  At the time of the first 
sale Mr M had only worked for his employer for three or four years, so I dont think 
hed have had a significant  statutory  redundancy package  available. Again, the 
policies wouldve offered a useful benefit  if he was made  redundant;
The cost of the policies was comparable  to other  similar policies  on the market at 
around the same time. It was clearly  disclosed on each  occasion. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest the premiums  were unaffordable for Mr and Mrs M;
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they paid a single premium for each  of the policies, with 
the intimation  that the cost was added to the loan and they paid interest on it. But 
looking at the agreements it is clear that the policies  were  paid by a regular premium. 
This couldve been cancelled at any time without a financial penalty.
Its possible that Mr and Mrs M didnt get all the information  about  the PPI they ideally  
shouldve done.  But I dont think more information  wouldve  changed their minds  about 
buying the PPI. I think it wouldve just demonstrated that the policies  were  suitable for them 
in the way Ive described. So I dont think Mr and Mrs M lost out as a result of anything  BoS 
mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, so it follows that Bank of Scotland plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
S Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0301907