K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) mis-sold him 
loans without carrying out adequate affordability  checks.
Background
Mr T took out 10 instalment loans with Sunny between October 2016 and July 2017.
Mr T wants Sunny to refund the interest and charges that he paid together  with interest  on 
the refund.  Mr T wants Sunny to remove any negative  information about the loans from his 
credit file.
The adjudicator recommended Mr Ts complaint  be upheld in part. The adjudicator  thought 
that Sunny should not have agreed loans five to ten.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove any negative information about  loan five 
from Mr Ts credit file. The adjudicator  asked  Sunny to remove loans six to ten entirely from 
Mr Ts credit file. The adjudicator also recommended  that Sunny refund the interest and 
charges that Mr T had paid on the affected  loans.
Sunny disagrees  with the adjudicators view. It says that it offers customers the chance  to 
manage their finances by allowing them  to borrow up to four loans at a time.
Sunny says the fact that Mr T repaid  a number of loans early  indicated that they were 
affordable for him.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN03146672the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr T could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
As Mr T hasnt objected to the adjudicators recommendation not to uphold his complaint  
about loans one to four, I wont say anything  further about these and instead will concentrate 
on the loans that remain  in dispute.
Loan five
When Mr T took out loan five, Sunny could see a history of him taking out a new loan  each 
for £350 - within a few days of repaying  the previous loan. I think  the fact that Mr T had been 
taking on new debt without any real break, should  have indicated  to Sunny that Mr T was 
having problems  managing his money. 
I consider that Sunny  shouldve  seen  that Mr T was unlikely  to be able to sustainably repay 
loan five. In the circumstances  I dont think that Sunny  shouldve  agreed loan five. It follows  
that I uphold  Mr Ts complaint about loan five.
Loans six to ten
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr T, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  
have given Mr T any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
six. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Ts borrowing  suggested that hed become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
Ref: DRN03146673Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr T had taken out in just over four months. And Mr T took 
out loan six on the same day that he repaid loan five.
I think this pattern of lending was an indication that Mr T might  be having difficulties 
managing his money and was using short term loans for everyday  living  costs rather  than 
one-off expenses. 
Mr T went on to take new lending that overlapped with a previous loan. And he took out a 
new loan on the same day as repaying an earlier loan. Rather than Mr T using the loans in 
the flexible way that Sunny suggests, it seems more likely that Mr T needed to borrow  more 
to try and fill the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances.  
Although the amounts that Mr T borrowed sometimes fluctuated, he sometimes had two 
loans open at the same time.  So Mr T wasnt  making any real inroads into what he owed 
Sunny and his indebtedness was being  prolonged. This meant that Mr T had been paying  
large amounts of interest  to, in effect;  service  a debt to Sunny over a long period.
The fact that Mr T might  have repaid some  loans early doesnt automatically mean that he 
did so in a sustainable way  that is without borrowing elsewhere. And Sunny will know (or 
should know) from previous decisions that there are cases where this service considers  the 
overall lending  pattern  and not just the affordability of each  loan.
I think that Mr T lost out because Sunny continued to lend money from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
As there were almost no breaks in lending, I consider it fair to uphold  Mr Ts complaint about 
loans six to ten as well as loan five.
I understand that there is an outstanding balance on loan nine. Mr T has had the benefit  of 
the money lent to him, so I consider its fair to allow Sunny to apply the refund to any 
outstanding principal balance if it chooses.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr T paid on loans five to ten;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan nine;  
if it chooses to, apply the refund  against  any outstanding principal balance  on loan nine 
before paying  remaining balance (if there  is any) to Mr T**; and
Ref: DRN03146674remove any negative information  about loan five Mr Ts credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to ten is negative.  So all entries about  loans six to ten should  be removed from Mr Ts 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  principal  balance, it must do so after deducting  
tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  Sunny of 
its obligation to treat Mr T reasonably and sympathetically if he puts forward any repayment 
proposals.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314667