K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Ms H say the Nottingham Building  Society  (Nottingham  BS) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr T and Ms H bought  the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for only for Mr T for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £300 a month  towards Mr T and 
Ms Hs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £16.70  a 
month. 
Mr T was at the time he took out the policy employed as a HGV Driver. He has told us he 
was entitled to more than six months sick pay and would have got some redundancy pay. 
Ms H was also working and they say they had some savings of around £4,000.  Mr T has 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
I have also noted  the salary  indications provided  by Mr T and Ms H from their recollections. 
However, these are substantially less, in particular for Ms H, than the amounts recorded, and 
evidenced from their employers, when the mortgage and PPI applications were made. This 
was over 20 years ago and memories  can fade, so I am satisfied  the records  made  at the 
time are more likely  to be accurate.
Nottingham BS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed  in 
November 2004.
Mr T and Ms Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr T and Ms Hs representative says:
Nottingham BS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr T and Ms H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr T and Ms 
Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nottingham BS 
should have told Mr T and Ms H about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN07937892The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nottingham BS should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr T and Ms H 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr T and Ms H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr T and Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr T and Ms Hs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr T and Ms Hs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN07937893Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nottingham  BS at the time.  So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  
and these other publications  into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr T and Ms Hs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nottingham BS was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr T and Ms Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nottingham BS gave advice, whether it advised Mr T and Ms H with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nottingham BS gave  Mr T and Ms H sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN07937894misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr T 
and Ms H, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent Mr T and Ms H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr T and Ms H 
and Nottingham BS, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr T and Ms Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr T and Ms H know they had a choice?
Nottingham BS had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
I can see that that mortgage  application  provided was signed and dated  by both Mr T and 
Ms H in September  1999. The mortgage  was in joint names, and from the information  
recorded Mr T and Ms H were  both working,  although Mr T was the higher income  earner, 
his income being  over three times more than Ms H.
The PPI was only taken  out to cover  Mr T and a choice about who was being covered, or 
whether there should be a joint policy had to be made. Also, the level of benefit had to be 
selected. The PPI application is a separate application form, and this has been  completed 
for cover only for Mr T, the amount of benefit wanted  is stated and this form has been signed 
by Mr T in October  1999.
The date this PPI application was signed  suggests that the PPI information and the 
application form were  provided to Mr T and Ms H, probably at the time they applied  for the 
mortgage. But it was almost a month after the mortgage application was signed,  Mr T signed 
and returned the PPI application form to Nottingham  BS. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its most  likely that Mr T and Ms H knew  the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. I am also satisfied they 
chose to cover only Mr T.
did Nottingham BS provide advice?
Nottingham BS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr T and Ms H say they cannot 
remember whether they were advised and if the policy was recommended.    So taking 
account of this information  from both parties, and as there is no clear  evidence advice was 
provided by Nottingham  BS, Im not persuaded that Nottingham BS provided advice.
This means  Nottingham BS didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr T.  Instead,  it 
had to give Mr T and Ms H sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  them  to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Ref: DRN07937895Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr T and Ms H were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr T 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr T and Ms H would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
The PPI application  form Mr T completed  clearly  sets out how much  the benefit  would be on 
a monthly basis. But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nottingham 
BS gave sufficient  information about  the actual cost or any detail about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr T and Ms H agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Nottingham BS gave Mr T and Ms H sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr T and Ms Hs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr T and 
Ms Hs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr T and Ms Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr T and Ms H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr T and Ms Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr T and Ms H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nottingham BS ought to have done either. 
what effect did Nottingham BSs shortcomings  have on Mr T and Ms H? To what 
extent did Mr T and Ms H suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nottingham BS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr 
T and Ms H. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
T and Ms H would have  still taken  out the policy, had Nottingham BS done things properly. 
Ref: DRN07937896Mr T and Ms H say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. They  also say they would not have  
taken out the PPI only to cover Mr T on a joint mortgage. Ive considered the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr T and Ms H had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr T being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr T and Ms H chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr T and 
Ms H thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr T and Ms H have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
The information Mr T and Ms H were given  about  the benefit was clear. But the information  
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear 
as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr T and Ms H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I havent seen any evidence to show  that Nottingham  BS told them 
the exact premium  at the point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr 
T and Ms H would have  been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with Nottingham BS at the time,  
or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr T and Ms H would  have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr T and Ms H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that occurred within  12 
months of the start date of the policy that Mr T knew about or ought to have known 
about before  the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr T and Ms H pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr T and Ms H from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr T and Ms Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr T was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
Ref: DRN07937897cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr T 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr T didnt have  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think they had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr T and Ms H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Nottingham BS may not have told Mr T that any claim  he made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what Mr T and Ms H expected  and might  have  
hoped for. But 12 months  was a longer period  than Mr T would  have received full sick pay 
for and his statutory  redundancy  entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr T and Ms H would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr T be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Ts sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr T and Ms H would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr T was made  redundant,  or unable  to work through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr T and Ms 
H would  have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr T and Ms Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr T and Ms H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr T and Ms 
Hs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr T 
Ref: DRN07937898and Ms H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr T and Ms H believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr T and Ms H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nottingham BS should  pay Mr T and Ms H compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr T and Ms H think Nottingham  BS misrepresented the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI.  While  I accept  there is a possibility a court might 
conclude some of Nottingham  BSs statements  misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  
the reason why Nottingham BS failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it 
did or didnt  say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information 
Nottingham BS gave Mr T and Ms H, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  the standards 
I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1999 when providing  information 
about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr T and Ms Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nottingham BS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr T and Ms H 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Nottingham  BS had been in 
breach of its duty of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what  I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr T and Ms H in a better  position  than 
if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 October  2020.
Christine Fraser
Ref: DRN07937899ombudsman
Ref: DRN0793789