K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  their mortgage application to HSBC UK Bank  Plc. Theyre  
unhappy that the mortgage adviser mis-calculated  the size of the mortgage  theyd need, and 
that HSBC wouldnt  use the solicitors they had appointed.
background
Mr and Mrs J had a mortgage  with HSBC and were  moving house.  On 14 November 2018  
they met with the HSBC mortgage  adviser  to arrange their new mortgage; they were porting 
their existing mortgage product and then needed to borrow extra on top. Unfortunately, the 
mortgage adviser mis-calculated the extra amount theyd need  as he didnt take into account 
the fact the existing mortgage would need to be repaid. This led to the application  being  for 
about £100,000 less than it should have been.
Mr and Mrs J say they noticed the error  but despite  repeatedly querying the figures they 
were told it was right, and in the end became confused so had no option but to trust the 
mortgage adviser. Once the error came to light, they had to change mortgage products  as 
the one theyd chosen wasnt  available  for the higher amount of borrowing they needed, and 
meant they also needed to extend  the mortgage  term and thus the associated life assurance  
policy for budgetary  reasons.
Mr and Mrs J had already appointed  a solicitor to carry  out the legal work for their sale and 
purchase. As the solicitor  wasnt on HSBCs  approved  panel  theyd need to pay extra  for an 
approved solicitor to act for the lender. They say this is against anti-competition law. A few 
weeks later Mr and Mrs J decided to stop using their solicitor and appointed a solicitor  that 
was on HSBCs panel so that firm could act for both Mr and Mrs J and HSBC.  Mr and Mrs J 
say they incurred about £1,000 in abortive fees from their original solicitor.
HSBC considered Mr and Mrs Js complaint. It apologised and offered them £250 for the 
error with the loan amount  but said it hadnt done anything wrong with the choice of 
solicitors.
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer to pay Mr and Mrs J £250 in recognition of its error
was fair. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mrs J have set out their account  
of events in considerable detail. I trust they wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed 
their complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute resolution service,  and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr and Mrs J. But although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial 
between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this means is that we 
dont represent  either  party, and I dont  act under eithers instructions or take directions on 
how a complaint will be looked at.
Ref: DRN00507212the loan amount
HSBC has already admitted it made  a mistake, so I dont need to make a finding  on what  
happened, or why. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a 
mistake, mistakes do happen. In this case it was simple human error.
Mr and Mrs J didnt lose the property,  so I cant consider those what ifs. Buying a house is a 
stressful time and its understandable to want it to go as smoothly  as possible. HSBC has 
accepted it let Mr and Mrs J down here and has apologised for that.
Mr and Mrs J say theres been no explanation of how HSBC will prevent this happening 
again to other customers. Were  not the regulator and its not within  my remit to tell HSBC 
what it should do to prevent  anything similar happening again.  We look at each complaint 
individually and what may - or may not - happen  in the future  to other  customers  isnt 
something I can consider  here when deciding Mr and Mrs Js complaint about what  
happened to them.
Its not our role to fine or punish  a business  and our awards arent punitive. Clearly  no 
amount of compensation can change what happened;  all I can do is consider the impact  of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. HSBC has offered £250 and having looked  at all the 
evidence  and keeping in mind the level of award we normally  make  I consider that offer 
to be fair and reasonable.
solicitors
Its clear that Mr and Mrs J had already instructed their solicitor before they applied for the 
mortgage with HSBC.
Mr and Mrs Js submissions about  when  they were  told about the issue with the solicitor  
have been contradictory. Mr and Mrs J sent us two emails on the same day, in the first they 
said:
Having reviewed paperwork from HSBC  and regarding  my complaint about  HSBCs failure 
to adequately and transparently inform  me of their approved solicitors the only evidence  I 
can find of them informing  me of conveyancing  costs was on 23 Jan 2019 after my 
mortgage had already  been approved. The initial mortgage meeting  was in October 2018 
where I believe this matter should have been discussed. 
I have submitted a picture of the evidence. I can find no other evidence of communication  
in writing on this subject and it was never  discussed  verbally with me in any meeting or 
phone conversation. I consider that this information  was provided too late to be of any 
use to me as I instructed solicitors in November 2018 and neither can it be considered 
transparent. This is even  more relevant when you consider that we had planned  to 
exchange contracts on the 31 Jan 2019. 
And in the second email they said:
I must apologise. In regard to my statement below on reflection its not quite factually  
correct. To be clear about this HSBC at no point  informed me in writing until the 23 Jan 
19 as evidenced  below. 
Ref: DRN00507213I was advised  over the phone about  it 2 days after the mortgage meeting but not in an 
articulate or transparent way. I was left confused and unclear about how to proceed and 
what the cost I would incur would  be. Any attempt to clarify these issues  was largely 
ignored by HSBC until the correspondence  below was received. I had already advised 
Everyman Legal and signed an engagement letter at this point. 
This is contrary  to the mortgage advisers statement, which  was:
The client  visited me to arrange his mortgage on a purchase. During this meeting  I made  
him aware  of the requirement for approved solicitors and the potential costs  of not using 
one. The client had already instructed his solicitor  for the sale of his property and 
informed me he would be using them for the purchase also. Client went  ahead  with his 
instruction. 
In any event I can see Mr and Mrs J complained about this at the time and HSBC  responded 
to that complaint, in writing, on 22 November. In that letter  HSBC  said:
You do have the right to choose your own solicitor, as do we. If you choose one of our 
panelled solicitors,  they can work on behalf  of both of us with you paying all fees.  We 
dont charge you for not choosing one of our solicitors.
However, if you do choose your own solicitor,  we still require  one of ours to complete the 
legal work  on our behalf and you are liable to pay the fees for this directly to them. As we 
cannot predict how much work they will have to do, we give you an indication  to the 
standard conveyancing  fee, currently £295. Should  any additional work be required for 
your mortgage our solicitor will contact you directly.
So, its clear from this that Mr and Mrs J were immediately told verbally that HSBC  couldnt 
use the solicitor already  appointed, and this was then confirmed in writing on 22 November 
which was just eight  days after their mortgage application.
In response to our investigators assessment Mr and Mrs J said:
In regard to the communication of conveyancing  the boxes might have been ticked  to say 
I had been informed of matters, as they were  to confirm the correct mortgage advice had 
been given which turned out not to be the case,  so really this proves  nothing  other  than a 
box was ticked.  I dont think this can be admitted as evidence because  it not factually 
correct as has been proven, its literally a box ticking exercise unless the financial advisor  
did not also tick the box to say accurate  and impartial advice had been given.
As Ive explained above, this wasnt just a tick box, we have a statement from the mortgage  
adviser and a letter responding to Mr and Mrs Js complaint at the time. When  considering  
any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs J are the ones  bringing the complaint against HSBC, 
to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Js version  needs to be more likely than HSBCs version; 
not just as likely. Having considered everything  I cant say Mr and Mrs Js version is anything 
more than just as likely, which  isnt enough for me to uphold this part of their complaint.
Finally, for completeness, Mr and Mrs J said early  in the complaint:
As all this was happening [Mr and Mrs Js solicitor], who handled the house sale 
contacted me and informed me the mortgage to be paid back was in the order  of £99000. 
Why were we paying this back, were porting it and why £99000? There  could only be one 
Ref: DRN00507214answer. Early repayment charges that were supposed to be waived for the porting had 
been added  by mistake.
They point to this being another mistake  by HSBC. But theyre wrong. The redemption  
statement HSBC sent to Mr and Mrs Js solicitor said:
As the customer has one or more loan where an Early Repayment Charge may be 
applicable, please see section 4.0 about  Early Repayment Fees.
Section four says:
If your customer is taking a new fixed rate mortgage on repayment of this loan:
If the customer is transferring the fixed interest  rate to a new HSBC Bank mortgage then 
the Early Repayment  Fee wont apply provided  that the new loan is drawn down at the 
same time as the existing loan is repaid and is for at least  the same  amount  and 
repayable over the same term as the existing loan.
The figures were set out - with an effective date for the day of completion - as:
Principal balance: £95,253.14
Accrued interest to date:        £69.05
Early Repayment Fee:  £3,153.58
Redemption statements are standard documents that are automatically generated based on 
the mortgage contract, not on what a consumer may have said they intend  to do. Lenders 
dont personalise them for each individual scenario, as things can change. For example, just 
because Mr and Mrs J applied to port their HSBC mortgage doesnt mean theyd do so. They  
could also have applied  for a mortgage  with another lender  or had other  means to complete 
the purchase. 
So, if HSBC  issued a redemption statement without the early  repayment charge on it, on the 
assumption Mr and Mrs J would  complete the port, it could be caught out if Mr and Mrs J 
then didnt complete  on the new purchase. Its much safer for the redemption statement to 
include the early  repayment  charge, with an explanatory note covering the different 
scenarios that may apply.
This is fairly  normal in the mortgage  industry for mortgages that are being  ported and Im 
surprised Mr and Mrs Js solicitor didnt know that. In any event, even if the solicitor hadnt 
come across  this scenario before it would have been clear,  upon reading that redemption 
statement, that the early  repayment charge wasnt due and so only £95,322.19 had to be 
paid (not £98,475.77).
Ref: DRN00507215my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense that I consider HSBC  UK Bank  
Plc made a fair offer in its response to Mr and Mrs Js complaint. I leave it to Mr and Mrs J to 
decide if now  on reflection  they want to contact HSBC directly to accept that offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 January  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0050721