K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that AWP  P&C SA unfairly turned down a claim on his mechanical
breakdown insurance  policy.
background
Mr S bought a policy on 15 March  2018. AWP said the policy has a delayed start date of 30
days to ensure theres no pre-existing faults. This meant Mr S policy  started on
14 April 2018.
Mr S said he noticed a problem with his car and took it to the garage on 3 April 2018  to
diagnose the reason for the mis-fire. The garage replaced the low pressure fuel sensor.
Mr S car then mis-fired again a week later so he took it back  to the garage who advised
further repairs were needed.
Mr S claimed from AWP for these repairs, but AWP said they werent covered because the
faults were pre-existing.  It said the cars  ECU showed that the fault had occurred on 3 April.
Mr S didnt think this was right and brought his complaint to us. He said he bought the policy
as he had three cars and hadnt used  this one for a while. He said he had a few long drives
coming up and wanted  to ensure he was covered  for any problems. He thought  the second
fault was different to the one diagnosed  on 3 April as the car hadnt experienced any
problems for a week.
AWP said the faults were  present on 3 April which was before the policy started. It said Mr S
garage noted that they would try to replace the fuel injector first and then try other things if
the problem persisted. It also thought  Mr S had given an incorrect  mileage when he bought
the policy to benefit from a cheaper  premium. Mr S said hed continued to pay his premium 
since making the claim, so didnt think it was fair for AWP  to say he wasnt covered.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 April 2020. In that I said:
The terms and conditions  of the policy say AWP wont cover  pre-existing faults.  AWP said
this means faults  that exist before the policy starts.  But the policy  doesnt define  this, and I
think it could also mean faults  that are apparent before the sale of the policy.  Where a term
is ambiguous, the meaning should be applied thats  most favourable  to the customer, which
is this case is that the fault wasnt pre-existing when Mr S bought his policy.
Even if that wasnt the case. Ive thought about  the purpose of this term. And I think  its to
prevent a policyholder taking out a policy when they already know  theres a fault with their
car. AWP  told us the policy includes this term to ensure its not immediately used after being
purchased, which supports my view.
Having considered the information available, I think its most  likely Mr S didnt  know about
the fault when he bought the policy  on 15 March.  Mr S said he wasnt  aware  of the fault
when he bought the policy.  And this is supported by AWPs final response letter to him which
says, the fault occurred on 3 April. There doesnt  seem to be anything to show the fault
occurred before 3 April.  So, I dont think the fault was apparent before Mr S bought his
policy.
AWP said the repairs Mr S has claimed for are the same as that diagnosed  on 3 April. This
seems likely given the ECU  said the fault occurred  on 3 April. Also, Mr S garage said they
Ref: DRN06917082would replace the fuel injectors in the first instance, which suggests they thought  it might  not
fix the problem.  But I dont think this matters, because I dont think  the fault diagnosed on
3 April was pre-existing when Mr S bought  his policy. So, I think  Mr S has a valid claim on
his policy.
However, AWP thinks Mr S received a more favourable  premium  by providing the incorrect
mileage when buying his policy.
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) Mr S
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when buying his policy.
And for AWP to take any action it would need  to show that he didnt do that and made  whats
known as a qualifying misrepresentation.
AWP pointed out that Mr S said his car had done 59,995 miles  when he bought the policy. It
said his MOT in August 2017 showed  the mileage as 59,921. And on 3 April the key reader
showed a mileage of 63,932. It thought Mr S had given incorrect  information about  his
mileage when he bought his policy to get a more  favourable premium.  Mr S said hed barely
used his car over the winter and had done a couple  of long journeys in the weeks  between
buying the policy and the car breaking  down.
I accept its unlikely that Mr S had done  less than 80 miles between  his MOT in August 2017
and when he bought the policy  in March 2018. I say this because the key reader shows that
he would  then have  done over 3,500 miles in the three weeks between  buying the policy  and
his car breaking down.  Ive asked Mr S for evidence of the journeys  he took in this time. He
said he no longer  has the credit  card he used to buy fuel but can show that he made
payments from his bank  account to his credit  card. I dont find this persuasive as it doesnt
show the payment  from his credit card only the amount he paid off it.
On the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely  Mr S provided the wrong mileage when
buying his policy.  AWP has shown that if hed provided the correct  mileage  the policy would
have cost more  than it did. I appreciate Mr S has offered to pay the extra.  But where  a
policyholder deliberately makes a misrepresentation CIDRA allows the insurer to avoid the
policy (which means cancel from the start as though  it never existed), keep the premium
(unless it would  be unfair to do so) and turn down  a claim.
However, I also need to consider whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. And in
this particular case Ive taken account  of the fact that AWP didnt avoid the policy and
instead continued to collect Mr S premium each month. I understand that might  have been
because AWP only identified the misrepresentation when Mr S brought  his complaint to us.
But I dont think it would  produce a fair and reasonable outcome  if I allowed AWP to both
turn down Mr S claim and avoid his policy and keep  the premiums,  due to the time this has
been ongoing.
So, I think the fair outcome here is for AWP to either return all the premiums  Mr S paid if it
decides to avoid his policy, or to accept the policy remains in force and pay his claim,  adding
8% simple  interest from the date of the claim to the date it makes payment. AWP should  let
me know which its decided to do by 21 April 2020.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision, but AWP didnt respond.  
Ref: DRN06917083my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received  no further comments,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. AWP didnt  respond.  But upon  Mr Ss acceptance of the final decision it should 
either return all the premiums Mr S paid if it decides  to avoid his policy,  or to accept the 
policy remains in force and pay his claim, adding 8% simple interest from the date of the 
claim to the date it makes  payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to either return all 
the premiums Mr S paid if it decides to avoid his policy, or to accept the policy remains  in 
force and pay his claim, adding 8% simple  interest  from the date of the claim to the date it 
makes payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr S a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0691708