K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that the advice Pro-Synergy Wealth & Tax Management Ltd (PS) gave to 
him to invest  in a Business Renovation  Allowance (BPRA) scheme in 2012 was unsuitable.
background
The scheme Mr P invested  into is an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). 
This particular scheme allowed Mr P to become a partner in a limited liability partnership (the 
LLP). It would  be funded  initially  by the partners contributions and in this case  an interest  
free loan from the developer of the partnership. Those investors who utilised the interest free 
loan intended  to pay it back through the tax relief they would receive  on their income tax as 
the LLPs spending was intended  to qualify  for BPRA.  Once they received the tax relief they 
would pay off the loan to the developer. The idea was for the investment not only to provide 
tax relief but also produce a regular income.
On 28 March 2012 Mr P (amongst other  potential clients) met with PS. The following day he 
received an email from PS introducing the scheme.  Mr P says it wasnt  until 3 April 2012 that 
he met with PS alone and completed an application form. But Mr P says he didnt complete a 
fact find at that stage  and no risk assessment was completed.
Mr P agreed to invest £78,000  into the scheme  in April 2012. Initially  the whole investment 
was due to be funded  by way of an interest free loan provided by the developer   but in fact, 
the loan he received was only for £72,209.20 and he needed put £3, 700.80 from his own 
pocket. He was asked to sign a waiver  confirming that he would pay the developer back  as 
soon as he received  the tax rebate from HMRC.
The partnership encountered problems  between 2013 and 2016 as it hadnt  received all 
subscriptions from partners. At the same time HMRC began  investigating the partnership  
and its considerations  focused mainly around  whether its expenditure qualified for BPRA. As 
a result Mr P received an accelerated payment  notice (APN) in February 2015 seeking a 
return of £38,676.40. While Pro-Synergy did provide Mr P with an appeal letter (which was 
prepared by the LLPs solicitors) which disputed the APN  the appeal overall was 
unsuccessful. So Mr P paid the sum due which was £38,676.40.
The LLP went into administration  in August 2016  and dissolved following liquidation in     
April 2018. So Mr Ps representative complained to PS about the advice he received to 
invest, it said:
Mr P should never have been introduced to the scheme as he didnt fulfil the 
necessary criteria.
PS failed to apply an affordability  test to see how Mr P would cope if the scheme 
failed.
PS used high pressure sales techniques  which were incorrect  and misleading.
Mr Ps risk profile was not assessed  pre-investment and the fact he was a cautious 
investor was ignored. Overall meaning the advice was unsuitable.
PS failed to understand the nature of the scheme and the associated risks. And when 
PS were aware there  were problems with the scheme it didnt fulfil its duty of care to 
Mr P.
PS didnt agree. To summarise it said it did carry out due diligence and following this, on    
29 March 2012,  it sent an email  to Mr P and other potential investors outlining how the 
Ref: DRN06381772scheme worked. On 3 April 2012  the advisor at PS met Mr P to discuss financial planning  
arrangements. PS says Mr P confirmed he wanted to invest  and completed the relevant 
paper work. He also provided a recent payslip so the calculation  could be completed  to see 
how to maximise tax relief.  By signing the subscription agreement, Mr P had confirmed he 
had received, read and understood the terms of the agreement prior to completing  the 
agreement. So PS says he confirmed he had the financial  ability  to bear the economic risk of 
subscribing to the partnership.
PS accepts the suitability report was sent to Mr P after he had subscribed to the investments 
but the risks in the report were explained to Mr P verbally in the meeting which took place 
prior to him investing. Overall it has said Mr P did meet the investor criteria for the scheme,  
and the scheme  was designed to be tax efficient with risk that HMRC  could challenge the tax 
relief claimed. PS denies advising  Mr P there were no risks and has pointed  out the risks 
were clearly outlined in the investment  memorandum (IM) and other  documents. Overall it 
has said it cant be held responsible for the lack of planning and management of the project.  
The scheme was supported  by a detailed IM, projections and documents drafted by a 
reputable professional.
As the issue  wasnt resolved, Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into the case and concluded  the advice PS provided was unsuitable. In summary,  
she said:
PS promoted  the scheme before it had established if Mr P was a suitable  investor  
and suitability wasnt assessed in retrospect.
No attitude  to risk (ATR) assessment was completed and it had limited information 
regarding Mr Ps knowledge, experience and financial  situation.
With that in mind she said PS hadnt done  enough to fulfil its obligations under COBS.
But she went  on to explain,  even if a fact find and ATR had been completed prior to PS 
promoting the scheme she didnt think the advice to invest was suitable. She explained she 
had seen evidence  from 2012 to demonstrate Mr P was a cautious investor and this scheme 
involved more risk than Mr P was willing to take. She went  on to explain why the nature of 
this particular scheme was risky and felt PS didnt  do enough to demonstrate it was aware of 
those risks.
She concluded that she had seen no evidence to demonstrate  that Mr P would have 
invested into the scheme (or any other  UCIS) if he hadnt been introduced to it by PS. As a 
result of the unsuitable  advice she said PS should pay Mr P £78,000. Also simple  interest  at 
the rate of 8% should be added to £3,790.80 from 5 April 2013 to the date of settlement. 
Plus interest at the same  rate added to £38,676.40 from 23 September  2015  to the date of 
settlement.
The investigator went on to explain it was likely that HMRC will apply interest and charges to 
the clawback.  So upon receipt of proof, PS should pay those amounts to Mr P as follows:
For any that have  already been  paid, simple  interest at 8% per annum  should  be 
added to the amount paid from date of payment  to the date of settlement.
Interest and Charges required after date of settlement, interest  would not be payable 
by PS. But PS should  give an undertaking to pay those amounts within  one month of 
being presented  with the evidence of the amounts being  charged. 
Ref: DRN06381773She also said PS should  pay £150 for the trouble and upset it had caused Mr P.
Mr Ps representative responded and accepted the investigators findings. But PS disagreed 
and raised further  points.  In summary this is what it said.
Analysis of whether  the scheme  was suitable should  be based on what a reasonably  
competent IFA would  have known after conducting  due diligence and reading the IM 
in 2012 and what was known about  HMRCs policy on BPRA schemes  in 2012. PS 
said that prior to July 2013 BPRAs were widely viewed both by HMRC, tax advisors 
and IFAs to be a legitimate source of tax relief. Therefore it has said it couldnt have 
foreseen the issues the scheme faced. 
PS felt that more  consideration needed  to be given when looking at what  it ought to 
have known and why the scheme  had failed. It said the scheme failed not because it 
was fundamentally  flawed but because there was a substantial funding  gap.
PS wasnt able to foresee  that HMRCs stance would change  or that the LLP would 
have issues receiving  funds from investors. The failure of the scheme was not a 
result of unsuitable advice but the administration of the scheme.
PS said it was aware that HMRC hadnt issued  a closure notice in respect of the 
scheme and so there has been  no  evidence to suggest Mr P  will have  to pay the 
entire 100% of the tax relief back.   It would  clearly  be extremely unjust  if PS were 
ordered to make  a payment which could not then be recouped in the event that the 
investors succeed in recovering  some  of the tax relief  with reduced interest. 
It was unhappy  that the investigator awarded 8% interest as it felt it didnt put Mr P 
back in the position  he would have  been  in had he not invested.  
The investigator responded to the further  points raised by PS, but didnt consider they made 
a difference to her opinion. She thought that regardless of why the scheme failed, the key 
issue was whether the scheme itself was suitable  for Mr P. She didnt consider it was. And 
so even if the scheme still had been inforce,  she would have reached the same conclusion   
although her recommendations for putting  things right would have been different. Because  
PS didnt agree the case has been  passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
read and considered both parties detailed  submissions in their entirety.  However, the 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my decision is to 
set out my conclusions and reasons  for reaching  them.
promotion of the scheme
PS met with Mr P and other  potential  investors  on 28 March  2012 and sent an email  to Mr P 
the following  day introducing the scheme.  And while PS has said it carried out due diligence 
and discussed  financial planning with Mr P, I have seen no evidence  to suggest that Mr Ps 
financial circumstance, investment objectives,  experience or knowledge were discussed 
prior to PS meeting with him on 28th March 2012  or 29 March  2018. 
I can see theres been some discussion around  whether or not the scheme shouldve been  
promoted to Mr P at all. I agree  with the investigator  that given the particular circumstances 
of this case, the scheme shouldnt have  been  promoted to Mr P. I say this because PS 
Ref: DRN06381774promoted the scheme to Mr P before it knew about  his circumstances and, therefore, before 
it was in a position to establish if the scheme  was suitable for him. 
But I think the key issue in this complaint is the suitability of the scheme itself  and so thats 
what Ive focused  on in my decision.
Advice
PS believes the important question to consider (in establishing if its advice was suitable) is 
why the partnership failed. But I dont agree. The key issue is whether this type of scheme is 
suitable. In other words,  whether  investing in this scheme represented a level of risk which 
Mr P was willing and able to take,  as well as whether he had sufficient knowledge and 
experience to understand how the scheme worked.  
Im also not persuaded by PS that the reasons  why the scheme failed were unforeseeable.   
I think there were numerous risks which PS was aware of when it advised Mr P, including:
The value of the property bought and renovated by the LLP could fluctuate in value.
Investors needed to keep their interest in the LLP for a minimum of seven years   if 
not; any tax relief received would be clawed back by HMRC.
Interests in the LLP wouldnt be quoted on any stock market  or other recognised  
investment exchange; so it couldve  been  difficult for Mr P to know  how much  his 
investment would be worth at any given point in time in the future.
The LLP would still be liable for ongoing  costs of the property if it remained vacant at 
any time, as well as the loan. If the property remained vacant, or the tenant became 
insolvent, in order  to avoid the loan being  called  upon the members  of the LLP may 
be required to service  the loan.
Problems in the development of the property, including  delays or variations to the 
planned layout  of the development could  have an impact on the BPRA  claim being 
made.
There was no guarantee that all the expenditure incurred by the LLP would be
            accepted as qualifying  for BRPA by HMRC   this means that the indications Mr P                                
was given about  how much he could receive in tax relief  was estimated.
So with that in mind I think there were a number  of inherent risks in the scheme  which Im 
satisfied ought  to have been  foreseen at the outset. Its one of the factors that meant the 
scheme itself carried a high risk of capital loss  in addition to the fact that there  were  a 
number of reasons  why any relief paid by HMRC  might need to be repaid by Mr P. And I am 
not persuaded that the regulatory changes PS has referred to werent foreseeable.  HMRC 
was simply clarifying the rules that already existed. And one of the key issues  was a court 
case decided by the Supreme Court in 2011. I think it wouldve been reasonable for a tax 
specialist firm to have  been aware of the case and how the rules applied. 
As already mentioned  at the time of the advice COBS  required  PS to provide suitable  
advice. This meant PS needed to establish  Mr Ps knowledge and experience, financial 
situation and investment  objectives.
Ive reviewed the suitability report which was dated  5 April 2012 (but not sent to Mr P until 2 
May 2012). I am satisfied  that PS did establish that Mr Ps investment objective was tax 
planning and tax mitigation. And I can see some  discussions had taken place regarding     
Mr Ps salary.  But having considered the risks involved and the amount of money Mr P 
Ref: DRN06381775intended to invest, I would have  expected  PS to have established Mr Ps attitude  to risk and 
explored in more detail whether he was able to financially bear any investment related  risk.
Mr P has said there was no risk assessment  completed during his meeting on 3 April 2012. 
And he hadnt seen  the IM until it was sent to him after that meeting. Hes said he didnt read 
the IM as the email said for your information  only, so he assumed it was just a glossy 
brochure. He said prior to the BPRA scheme  he had no other  investment experience. He 
also wasnt willing to take on any risk and the only reason he invested  was due to PS advice  
that it was low risk.
 
One balance,  Im persuaded by Mr Ps testimony. I say this because having considered the 
suitability report,  under Attitude to Risk it says that investment risk does apply in this case  
and goes on to say Mr P must read the risk warnings in the report and in the IM. But the 
suitability report doesnt explain  what level of risk Mr P was willing to take, nor does it 
mention if the BPRA scheme being  recommended matched his attitude  to risk. Given  the 
background discussions, the nature of UCIS schemes and the significant risks Ive outlined  
above, I think this was a very significant  omission. 
Ive also seen evidence  to suggest that the advisor at PS carried out a risk assessment with 
Mr P in May 2012, after the investment, and this concluded that Mr P was a cautious  
investor. So with that in mind I am satisfied that if PS had assessed Mr Ps ATR at the time 
of the advice he would have been  categorised as a low or cautious  investor, as he was one 
month later.
As I have mentioned  above, PS has focused on the merits of the scheme itself, and the 
reasons why it failed.  But regardless of whether the scheme failed or not, Ive considered 
whether the advice to invest into the scheme  was suitable.  And I dont agree it was. There 
were a number of inherent risks attached to the scheme which meant that it wasnt  suitable 
for Mr P given his likely attitude  to risk, knowledge  and experience.
Im also satisfied that the way PS promoted  and explained the investment led Mr P to believe 
it was a safe or low risk investment with very little probability of it causing  him any losses.  I 
say this because  I have seen email exchanges between PS and Mr P (including  other  
potential investors) which makes the scheme sound  very worthwhile and relatively risk 
adverse, with no mention of potential risks or issues relating  to BPRA  schemes. Ive also 
considered the information in the risk assessment completed in May 2012,  and it is 
acknowledged Mr P has limited investment experience.  If more had been done to explain 
the risks associated with the scheme I am persuaded Mr P wouldnt have invested.
Overall I am satisfied the investment  wasnt in line with his attitude  to risk, and Im satisfied 
that if he had been  given  suitable advice, he wouldnt have invested in this scheme.
Its clear that Mr P has now suffered a very significant loss as a result of this unsuitable 
advice. 
putting things  right
Ive considered very carefully PS and Mr Ps comments on how to put things  right. But Im 
not persuaded to change the investigators  recommendations. I think  what  Ive outlined 
below puts Mr P as far as possible  back in the position he wouldve been in but for PS 
unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN06381776I appreciate PS has raised points relating to Mr P mitigating  his losses  at the time.  In short,  it 
has said that Mr P couldve challenged HMRCs assessment of the BPRA scheme. But I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Mr P to have challenged HMRCs 
demands. I say this bearing mind  that challenging HMRC would have meant Mr P would  
incur further  costs without  any real prospect of success. I think its reasonable for Mr P to 
accept the validity  of HMRCs demands. 
PS has also said it feels the award of 8% interest  on relief Mr P had to pay back to HMRC  is 
too high and doesnt put him back in the position  he would have been in if he hadnt invested  
in the scheme.  I understand why PS thinks that our award of 8% interest on the relief  Mr P
has had to pay back to HMRC is too high. But that award is meant  to compensate  Mr P for 
being deprived of his money for a period of time. And its reasonable to assume that having 
to pay back this money from his own funds  has caused Mr P financial difficulty, and likely  
had an impact on a range  of decisions around  his spending and borrowing at the time.
As it isnt really possible to quantify  what this has meant for Mr P, our service uses the 8%
per year simple rate in the majority  of similar cases.  
Mr P invested £78,000 into the scheme  and as the scheme has failed he wont be getting 
anything back.  In addition, HMRC has confirmed  that it will be clawing back  100% of the tax 
relief it provided to Mr P. This means  that although Mr P has currently only been  asked to 
pay back some of the relief, its likely hell be asked to pay the rest. 
So bearing all the above in mind,  in order to put things  right,  PS should  pay Mr P 
£78,000 which is the original investment amount. Within that amount PS should add 
8% per year simple  to be added to £3,790.80 Mr P had to pay to the LLP from          
5 April 2013 to the date of settlement. And 8% per year simple to be added 
£38,676.40 (what he has already paid back to HMRC) from 23 September 2015  to 
the date of settlement.
Its likely  Mr P will also incur interest  and penalties as a result  of the above, some of 
which he may have already settled with HMRC, and some  of which  havent  yet been 
demanded. So, for those charges which Mr P has already had to pay, Mr P should  
provide a statement from HMRC which shows the interest and penalties he has paid. 
And on receipt of that evidence, PS should:
Reimburse those  amounts to Mr P.
Pay 8% per year simple interest
On any future interest and charges applied by HMRC, no interest will be payable  as Mr P 
has not yet been deprived of that money. But PS should give an undertaking to pay those 
amounts within  one month of being presented with the evidence of the amounts being 
charged. 
Having reviewed several emails from Mr P asking PS for updates and advice  on how to 
resolve the matter,  and often not receiving  communication  back  from the advisor, I am 
satisfied that Mr P would  have experiences  some  distress and upset during that time. And 
while I appreciate  Mr P has said he spent time and money on bringing the complaint to our 
service, I dont  think this is above  or beyond what I would expect. So I agree with the 
investigator that PS should pay Mr P £150 for the trouble and upset it has caused.  PS will 
pay this within 28 days of when we tell it Mr P has accepted this final decision.
Ref: DRN06381777Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance. It isnt clear  whether the future  interest and charges which HMRC  might  apply 
will mean that the total money award will be over £150,000. If it is, I recommend PS pay the 
full amount. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint about Pro-Synergy Wealth & Tax
Management Ltd.
My decision  is that Pro-Synergy Wealth & Tax Management Ltd must pay Mr P the 
compensation Ive outlined  above, including the £150 trouble  and upset award  up to a 
maximum of £150,000, plus any interest Ive said is payable.  
In this case, its possible the compensation due to Mr P could in future  exceed  £150,000.  So 
I recommend that Pro-Synergy Wealth & Tax Management  Ltd pay Mr P the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Pro-Synergy 
Wealth & Tax Management Ltd. It is unlikely that Mr P can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting independent  legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision,  bearing in mind the uncertainty  around 
HMRCs future interest and charges. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0638177