K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains about problems making  direct  debit payments to his credit  card account with 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc.
background 
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on the 7 January 2020.  A copy of this is 
attached below and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out the background to this 
complaint, and I explained why I thought it should be upheld. I said I felt M&S should pay 
Mr J a total of £400 compensation  to take into account the impact of its errors here.  
Both parties  confirmed they received my provisional decision and said they didnt have any 
further comments or information  to provide. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has offered anything new for my 
consideration, Ive reached the same  conclusions that I did in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc should pay Mr J a total of 
£400 compensation to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06969842copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr J complains about problems making  direct debit payments to his credit card account with  Marks  & 
Spencer Financial Services Plc.
background 
In July 2016  Mr J was offered an M&S credit  card. He says he opted to pay the credit  card by direct  
debit each month  as this seemed an easy  and convenient  way to manage it.
A number  of direct debits payments to M&S were either not made, or returned  unpaid. Mr J was in 
frequent contact with M&S to try to solve this problem, and set up the direct debit again  several times 
- both online, over the telephone and in branch.  Each time he was told it was now working. But the 
problem persisted.  
When he contacted his bank  it said that it hadnt received a direct  debit mandate  from M&S. And that 
without this it couldnt  make payments to it.
In July 2017  Mr J was contacted by an M&S advisor who looked into the problem  for him in detail.  The 
advisor told him to contact  his bank again and ask it to remove  any historic direct debit instructions 
from M&S.  Mr J did this and notified M&S. And M&S said it had now set up a new direct debit and 
refunded Mr J the charges  hed incurred  for previous late payments. But the problems continued. And 
Mr J says M&S were logging this on his credit report, which adversely impacted his credit rating.
Whilst this was on-going  Mr J was in the process of buying a house. Some  of his mortgage 
applications were rejected. And his financial advisor  told him that this happened because of the 
issues with the payments  to his M&S credit card. M&S then amended the information on Mr Js credit 
file, at which  point he had a mortgage application accepted. But he complained it was too slow to do 
this. 
M&S sent Mr J a letter on 24 November  2017 apologising  for the upset and inconvenience caused.  It 
said it had sent a request to amend his credit file, but the time taken  to update this was outside of its 
control. It also credited  his account with £50 compensation.
Mr J wasnt  happy with this response  so he brought his complaint to our service.  He says he was told 
by an M&S advisor that the problems  with the direct debit payments stemmed from the fact it had mis-
spelt his name  on some  of its records. So he feels it should take responsibility for what  happened. He 
wants M&S to compensate  him for the financial loss hes suffered as a result of not securing two 
earlier mortgage offers which had more favourable interest rates.  And to compensate him for the 
distress and impact this has had on him and his family. 
Our adjudicator looked  into what  had happened  and felt that M&S  should compensate Mr J further for 
not taking more steps  to understand why the direct  debit  kept failing. They recommended  that it pay 
him £250 compensation for the trouble and upset the matter had caused.  And asked it to remove all 
adverse information from his credit file and refund any late payment charges that hadnt already been 
reimbursed.
Mr J didnt accept this view,  and so the case has been passed to me to decide. Our service is also 
looking into a separate complaint Mr J has brought against his bank in relation to this same matter. 
My decision  here only focuses on the actions of M&S.
Ref: DRN06969843my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I do agree M&S  made some errors here. 
Ive looked carefully at Mr Js payment  history and the contact he had with M&S, as well as a log M&S  
has given us detailing  the direct debit history.
M&S says that Mr J didnt actually ask to pay his credit card by direct debit when he first opened the 
account. And its shown us a copy of the application he made that confirms  this. I can see Mr J 
provided his bank details on the application. And I appreciate he may have thought  this meant a direct 
debit would be set up. But he didnt complete the separate direct  debit payment application 
underneath this section on the form. So I think M&S acted  correctly  by not setting  up a direct debit at 
this time.  And as a result  I dont feel I can fairly  hold it responsible for the payments Mr J missed  
between July 2016 and November 2016. 
I can see that on 6 November 2016 Mr J did make an online request for a direct debit to be set up to 
pay the full balance of his account each month. M&S sent him a letter confirming that this had been 
done. This letter asked him to continue to make payments as normal until a message appears on 
your credit card statement  advising you of when the Direct Debit will be claimed.
On 13 November  2016  M&S  sent Mr J a statement advising that the direct debit would  be collected  
from his bank  account on 8 December  2016.  However  on that date Mr J contacted M&S  to let it know 
that hed cancelled the direct  debit.  He asked it to set one up to take the minimum  monthly payment 
going forward  instead. And in the meantime made the payment due on that day using  its automated 
service. Ive listened to this call and I can hear that M&S told him it would set this direct debit up the 
following day and that no further action was needed  from Mr J. 
M&S has acknowledged that it didnt in fact set up the new direct debit at this time. But its also 
pointed out that there wasnt a message  on Mr Js next statement telling  him that a direct debit was 
set up. So it feels he ought to have been aware  he still needed to make a manual  payment. 
I accept Mr J has a responsibility to manage payments to his account. And that had he studied his 
statement more carefully he might have realised there wasnt a direct debit in place  at this time.  But I 
do also think  it was reasonable that he believed this had been taken  care of given  the assurances he 
was given  by M&S over the telephone.  
M&S contacted Mr J about his account  on 24 January 2017 following the missed payment earlier that 
month. Mr J was understandably  unhappy that his direct debit hadnt been collected.  M&S took a 
manual payment for the arrears on the account,  and reinstated his direct debit to claim the minimum 
amount. I can see Mr J was sent a letter confirming this shortly afterwards.
Mr Js next statement, dated 12 February 2017, advised that a direct debit was set up to claim  by 9 
March 2017. But this payment wasnt made. M&S says this is because it received an expiry 
instruction on 14 February 2017.  I can see M&S  made further attempts to reinstate the direct debit  in 
June 2017 and July 2017 at Mr J s request. But again the instructions were  cancelled shortly after. 
M&S has explained  the instructions were coming  back with reason codes advising  theyd been 
cancelled by Mr Js bank. And so it feels it wasnt responsible for this. However, looking at the direct 
debit log M&S  has given  us I can see the original direct debit that Mr J cancelled in December  2016 
was marked  with ADDACS reason code 0. And so it wasnt possible for M&S to reinstate it. M&S  
needed to send Mr Js bank a new mandate in order to establish a new direct debit.  
I understand why M&S might  not have initially realised this. Mr J had told it hed cancelled the original 
direct debit himself. And in other situations  this couldve meant M&S was able to reinstate the 
instruction. But given the length  of time this issue went on for and the number  of attempts  M&S  made  
Ref: DRN06969844to reinstate it, I do think it should have further investigated the problem. And that it ought reasonably 
to have realised what was going wrong and taken steps to try and resolve  the issue sooner that it did. 
It wasnt until 25 July 2017 I can see M&S asked Mr J to check with his bank and ask it to remove any 
historic direct debit  instructions from M&S. M&S said it would do the same at its end and set up a 
brand new direct debit. Mr J contacted  it a few days later and advised  his bank had done this. M&S 
says it then set up a new direct debit instruction  in August 2017.  
I havent seen any evidence of the actual instruction it sent. But I can see Mr Js statement dated  13 
August 2017  said Thank you for paying by Direct Debit. Your payment f £111.57 will be collected  on 
07/09/17 from your bank  account. So I think its likely that it did send this.
Mr J continued to experience  problems  with his direct debit being collected. I appreciate why this 
wouldve been  so frustrating  for him. But I cant see any evidence that this was specifically due to an 
error by M&S at this time. 
I do sympathise  with the difficulties Mr J encountered. Its clear this issue caused him a great deal of 
inconvenience. And Ive explained why I think M&S shouldve done more  to try and resolve the 
problem sooner.  I think it would be reasonable for it to pay Mr J a total of £400 compensation  to put 
things right here. I understand M&S has credited Mr J with £50 to date. Which  means a further £350 
compensation would be due. 
I think  it would be fair for M&S to pay this amount because  of the errors it made  and the length of time 
these problems  persisted.  Ive also taken into account the fact I think  some of the late payment fees 
Mr J was charged could have been avoided if M&S hadnt made  mistakes.  And that at times it gave 
Mr J incorrect and misleading  information. On one occasion it told him the direct debit had failed  
because it had been  cancelled  by one if its advisors   which wasnt what had happened. And on 
another it suggested the problem was due to the spelling  of his name  on the direct debit request, 
which its now said wasnt the case. 
Mr J provided us with a copy of his credit report, and I can see that late payment markers were  
recorded on his account  in November 2016, June 2017 and October 2017. I understand Mr J feels  
this impacted his mortgage  applications. 
I know Mr J will be disappointed, but I dont think I can fairly ask M&S  to compensate him for not 
securing a lower interest  rate on his mortgage. I understand his frustrations. But I do think  he could 
have taken greater steps to ensure payments were maintained to his account. M&S has shown us 
evidence of letters it sent him each time payments were missed and arrears  began to accrue. And I 
dont think Mr J always contacted it as promptly as he could have done to bring his account  up to 
date. There were also times where  I think it ought to have been clear  from his statements  and the 
direct debit confirmation letters he was sent by M&S  that there wasnt a direct debit in place for that 
particular month. And I note the first late payment  marker was applied following the missed payment 
in October 2016, which happened before  Mr J first asked M&S to set up a direct debit  in November 
2016. 
M&S says it applied these late payment markers correctly, and I agree  that these reflect  the conduct  
of the account.  However on 28 October 2018 it requested that the late payment markers  for June 
2017 and October 2017 be removed  from Mr Js credit file as a gesture of goodwill. I think  this was 
helpful, but this doesnt M&S made an error when  it recorded them in the first place. I know Mr J 
doesnt feel they were  removed from his credit file quickly  enough, but it is normal that there would be 
a delay  before credit  reference agencies updated the information on his credit report. So I dont think  
M&S made  an error in this respect. 
Ref: DRN06969845my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should pay Mr J a total of 
£400 compensation to resolve  this complaint
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0696984