K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the service they got from Target Servicing Limited  when they 
applied to redeem  their equity loan. They would  like to be compensated for their loss.
background
Mr and Mrs S owned a property they bought with the help of an equity loan administered by 
Target. When they went to sell the property their solicitor wrote  to Target for a redemption  
figure on 21 May 2018. As this is an equity loan, Target has a process  to go through 
including getting  a valuation. Target seems to have opened a file and then closed it and 
didnt respond  to the request. Mr S said he kept chasing Target for a response  but couldnt  
get through.
On 2 July 2018 Target got a further letter from the solicitor  and Target then responded to 
Mr and Mrs S confirming  the process  to be followed. Target says that the email  to 
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor  should have been sent in May rather than July. Mr and Mrs S say 
that they were  heavily  inconvenienced and distressed  by the delay and a process  which 
should have taken a couple  of months  took much longer. This took place when Mrs S was 
pregnant and the delay upset their plans  to quickly move house.  They  ended  up in 
unsuitable accommodation and have been  forced  back to renting and off the property ladder.
Target wrote  to Mr and Mrs S on 25 September  upholding part of the complaint that that 
Mr and Mrs S had difficulty  making  contact with Target but didnt accept that it was 
responsible for any delays  in the redemption  process. Target offered £75 compensation. I 
noted that the letter was sent to the address of the property  that Mr and Mrs S had just sold.  
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with the offer but Target wrote again on 7 November 2018 and 
didnt change its decision. Mr and Mrs S brought the complaint to this service.
Target then reviewed the complaint and offered  to increase its compensation to 
Mr and Mrs S to £350. Target  believed it should  increase  its offer for its service failure to 
£300 including for the delay in the starting  the redemption process and £50 for not getting a 
new correspondence address for Mr and Mrs S knowing  they had moved home.  Our 
adjudicators view was that the complaint should be upheld. Due to the level of distress  
suffered by Mr and Mrs S, our adjudicator felt more appropriate compensation would be 
£500. Target disagreed saying in particular that the evidence  didnt warrant our adjudicators 
view that Mr S had made numerous attempts to get through to Target between  21 May 2018 
and 14 June 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint surrounds a number of administrative failures by Target. Critically after 
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor  initially contacted  Target  for a redemption  figure  it seems  to have 
opened a case  file and then for some unexplained  reason closed it. This meant  that the 
request wasnt dealt with although presumably Mr and Mrs S and their solicitor  would  have 
assumed that it was being dealt with and made  plans accordingly. 
I have noted that in its letters to Mr and Mrs S of September  and November, Target doesnt 
accept that it caused any delay. I consider  that this failure to be open and transparent must 
Ref: DRN02339982have increased  the hurt that Mr and Mrs S obviously felt as a result of this delay. It was only 
when Mr and Mrs S brought  the matter to this service that Target  grasped  the significance  of 
that failure and offered compensation for it.
The other issue is the difficulty that Mr and Mrs S had in getting  through to Target. In his 
complaint form Mr and Mrs S say that They would not answer the phone (Up to 3 hour call 
cues). On the phone  which was automated kept saying you are more than 9th in the cue. On 
one occasion  I got down  to second  and then went straight back  up to over 9th. Mr S says he 
was ringing daily and tried email and still got no response.
Mr S sent an email on 14 June to Target  I have been trying  to reach you to do the 
settlement and valuation but your lines are rammed  and I can never get through.  Can 
someone please call me so I can get this paid and booked so I can finally  move  out. Mr S 
left his phone number but Target didnt respond  to that urgent request. On 19 June Mr S 
urgently emailed again. He said that he had phoned and had nine people in front of him in 
the queue  for over an hour. He stressed the urgency  of the situation but nobody responded 
to his request  although he left his phone number and obviously his email  address. 
Again Target  didnt  respond. Target says that it was experiencing  higher call and email  
volumes than expected  and that We agree that its unacceptable that you were unable  to 
get through to an executive  and that you did not receive a reply to your email. 
Like our adjudicator, given the absence of financial information in relation to this complaint I 
do not believe that a monetary award is warranted.  I note that Target offered to consider that 
if such information had been forthcoming. But I have to recognise that moving house with a 
child due must be a very stressful time.  In this case there have been failures by Target  both 
in delay and in communication which increased  that stress. The long wait in call cues  must  
have been very frustrating. Target could have  assisted.  It could  have answered  the calls or 
returned them later or answered the emails  but it didnt. It could also have admitted and 
apologised at an early  stage for not processing the initial  request.  My view is that   
looking at the complaint  as a whole £500 is appropriate compensation and so I uphold  the 
complaint on that basis. I note that Target has already paid Mr and Mrs S £75 so I shall 
make an award for the balance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Target Servicing  Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs S £425.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0233998