K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Automobile Association  Insurance Services Limited  (AA) didn't  
update its system when  he renewed  his breakdown cover.
background
Mr W had breakdown cover with AA which renewed  in January 2019. A couple  of months 
later Mr W broke-down and called AA. AA said he wasn't covered. After  Mr W got home  he 
confirmed that hed paid to renew  his cover  in January. He complained. AA said that owing 
to a system error it initially  thought  that Mr Ws membership had expired, which is why its call 
handler told Mr W he wasn't covered.  It also said that when it initially responded to his 
complaint it sent a letter saying that his complaint  was resolved when that wasn't the case. 
To put things right it offered Mr W £30 compensation. It also said he could cancel his policy 
and receive a refund of his renewal  premium if he wished.
Mr W didn't think  that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ws complaint. She thought AA had done  enough  to put things 
right. Mr W didn't agree so his complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr W had renewed  his breakdown  cover  so AA should  have updated  
its systems to reflect that. But, because of an error,  that didn't happen.  So when Mr W 
phoned it AA told him he wasn't covered. I can understand  Mr W found that confusing as he 
knew hed taken out cover. But I note that during  the same call AA offered to renew Mr Ws 
membership and if he'd accepted that offer then AA would have sent out someone to help. If 
hed done so he could have used  AAs service at the time and AA could have issued any 
refund for dual payment  of cover later. But Mr W didn't accept that offer and didn't call AA 
back. So while I can understand  that Mr W would  have found it confusing  and frustrating  at 
the time of his initial call AA did offer to help, so it didn't  leave him stranded. And AA offered 
Mr W £30 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  arising  because  of its mistakes.  I 
think thats a reasonable response in the circumstances.
Mr W said that hes lost faith in AA as a result of this incident. But I note that AA gave him 
the option of cancelling  his policy for a full refund if thats the case. And I also think  that was 
reasonable response as he could then take his custom elsewhere. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0573636