K822xcomplaint
Mr L says TSB Bank plc gave him incorrect advice and made mistakes when he tried to pay 
a utility bill.
background 
Mr L was trying to pay his water bill. He went to a branch of TSB during the period  when  it 
was experiencing technical problems. He was told that he couldnt make  the payment in the 
usual way by bank giro credit.
Instead TSB arranged for Mr Ls payment to be made through its Faster Payment system.  
But this didnt work properly because Mr Ls details  werent completed correctly  and so the 
payment was returned.
Mr L has a number of concerns  about  what happened.  For example,  he says the missed  
payment meant he went into arrears  on his account with the company providing his water 
services. He says this caused  him a lot of inconvenience to put things right which  he 
couldve done without  especially as hes been  diagnosed with a serious health condition.
TSB accepted that it had got things wrong and it offered Mr L £25 for the trouble  and upset it 
had caused. Mr L didnt think this was enough. The investigator thought  TSB should 
increase the award to £100. Mr L disagreed  and so his case has come  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  While Im upholding Mr Ls case, Im not 
increasing the award recommended  by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres agreement TSB didnt provide the service  to Mr L that it shouldve.  The 
disagreement is about how it should put things right.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint, Ill think  about whether it's fair to award  
compensation for trouble  and upset. This isn't intended  to fine or punish a business   which  
is the job of the regulator. But when something's gone wrong, a business's  recognition  of the 
emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
We're all inconvenienced occasionally  in our day-to-day lives, including in our dealings  with 
other people, businesses and organisations. For me to award compensation, I need to 
decide that the impact of TSBs actions in this case  was greater than just a minor 
inconvenience or upset.
Mr L received incorrect advice from TSB and then his instructions dont appear to have been  
executed properly. I can see he was worried about the impact of his missed bill payment. 
This caused him some embarrassment and he had to put matters in hand  to sort things out.
TSB recognised it should say sorry by making  a payment of £25 to Mr L. But in the 
circumstances the investigator thought this wasnt enough. He thought  £100 was more 
appropriate. Having  looked at everything, I agree with his recommendation.
Ref: DRN09832502my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. I require TSB Bank plc 
to pay Mr L £100  in recognition of the trouble  and upset it caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0983250