K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined a claim and voided her home  
insurance policy.
background
Mrs M had a home insurance  policy with Aviva which  she bought in October 2017.
In 2018, Mrs M made a claim after a water leak from her bathroom. Aviva  declined the claim 
and voided Mrs Ms policy.
They said shed made a misrepresentation when she bought the policy  because  she said no-
one to be insured  had a criminal  conviction.  Mrs Ms husband, who was the joint owner of 
the property, was convicted  in 2016 and sentenced  to several years in prison.
Mrs M complained to Aviva. She said shed in fact been separated from her husband for 
several years before his conviction and shed not intended that he would be covered by the 
policy.
Aviva maintained their position, so Mrs M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought  it should  be upheld.
She said Aviva should reinstate the policy and consider the claim. She thought  they should 
also remove any record of the policy being voided.
Her view was that when  she bought the policy,  Mrs M didnt provide inaccurate information  
knowingly, recklessly or carelessly.  And so Aviva  werent entitled  to void the policy.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  Because I disagreed 
with our investigators view, I decided  to issue a provisional decision before I make  my final 
decision. This allowed both parties to comment on my thinking  before I make my final 
decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services  last word on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision, I have to take into account the relevant legislation  in 
particular, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA).
CIDRA says that if a consumer provides inaccurate information when buying or 
renewing a policy,  the insurer  will be able to take certain actions if that 
misrepresentation was either: (a) deliberate or reckless; or (b) careless.
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  the insurer can void the policy 
and refuse  all claims and need not return the premiums, unless it would be unfair to 
the consumer  to retain them.
Ref: DRN01657092If the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can do the following:
If they wouldnt have  provided the insurance on any terms, they may void the 
policy and refuse  all claims, but they must return the premiums.  If the insurer 
would still have  provided the insurance but on different terms (other than terms 
relating to the premium)  the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on 
those terms if the insurer so requires; and
If the insurer would still have provided  the insurance but charged a higher 
premium, they may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim 
where the misrepresentation was discovered as a result of a claim.
This is reflected in Mrs Ms policy document (in the general conditions  section).  This 
says the policyholder:
must take care to provide complete and accurate answers to the questions  we 
ask
It goes on to say that if the information provided isnt complete  and accurate, Aviva  
may cancel  the policy and refuse  to pay any claim.
When they declined  the claim and voided  the policy, Aviva said they thought Mrs M 
had made  a careless misrepresentation  to them in not telling them  about her 
husbands conviction, rather than a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. So, they 
returned her premiums back to the date of inception  of the policy.
They say Mr M has an insurable  interest  in the insured property,  because  hes the 
joint mortgagee.  And theyve provided evidence in the form of their underwriting 
criteria to show they wouldnt have  provided the policy had they known about Mr Ms 
conviction.
So, I have to decide whether Mrs M was careless  in not disclosing her husbands 
conviction. If she was, Aviva are entitled to void her policy and decline her claim.
In making that decision, I have to consider the particular circumstances of the case  
and I have to look at exactly what Mrs M was asked  when  she completed her 
application for the policy.
When Mrs M made her application, she was presented with a series of assumptions 
Aviva were  making. She was clearly asked  to consider these assumptions and state 
whether they were  correct to the best of her knowledge and belief.
One of those assumptions was:
No person to be insured  has ever had criminal convictions, police cautions  or 
have any prosecutions pending.
When Mrs M accepted the subsequent quote  from Aviva she was sent a number of 
documents. These included a page headed The information provided by you. This 
said Mrs M had confirmed  that:
Ref: DRN01657093You, or any person to be insured by this policy, have  never  been  convicted of or 
cautioned for (or charged but not yet tried with) any criminal offence
There was a very clear  warning at the head of that page to say that customers  should  
check that all questions  had been answered to the best of their knowledge and belief.
In essence, Aviva say that if Mrs M had read those documents  and carefully 
considered what  she was being  asked,  she should have realised that she should 
disclose her husbands conviction.  He was clearly a person to be insured  because  
he was joint mortgagee for the property and had an insurable interest in it.
Mrs M doesnt  dispute her husbands conviction   or that he is the joint mortgagee  of 
the property. But she says she didnt think he was a person to be insured. They  had 
been separated  for some time, he wasnt living at the property, he didnt  have any 
possessions there, he wasnt named as a policyholder and he couldnt make  a claim 
under the policy.
I dont think there can be any dispute here that Mr M did in fact benefit from the 
policy. The property was insured. He is the joint owner of that property.
Mrs M says she didnt  think  about that  or didnt  think  it meant  he was a person  to 
be insured   when  she bought the policy.
I dont think anyone could  reasonably think the only person covered by a policy  is the 
policyholder. Mrs M is the only person named in the schedule, but she would have 
expected Aviva to pay out if her childs possessions, for example, were stolen or 
damaged by an insurable event.
If that werent in any case clear, the policy booklet  says that cover is provided for the 
policyholder, their domestic  partner, and any family members normally living with 
them.
If I am to accept Mrs Ms position in this case  that she wasnt  being  unreasonably 
careless when she said no-one to be insured  had been convicted  then I have to 
accept both that: (a) Mr M isnt in fact her domestic partner; and (b) it wasnt careless 
for her not to think about  his interest  in the house when she took out the policy.
Im not entirely convinced  that Mrs M is separated from her husband. Theres been no 
formal separation  they arent  divorced and theres  been no formally agreed  division 
of the property.
Mrs M originally told Aviva  her husband  hadnt  lived at the address for several years 
before his conviction in 2016.  It later come to light that he lived there  immediately 
prior to his conviction.
Mrs M says he did this because he needed a bail address and wanted to be with his 
children. Hed lived in another part of the UK for several years prior to that. And she 
said he lived in a caravan at the back of the property for this period.
Whilst that might provide  a possible and plausible explanation of the circumstances, 
Mrs M hasnt  explained  why her story changed only when Aviva  found out hed been  
living at the address prior to his conviction.
Ref: DRN01657094Mrs M also said in her policy  application  that there  were two adults living  at the 
property. Shes not suggested that anyone  else is involved.
And Mrs M also told the loss adjustor who visited her after she made  the claim that 
she and her husband lived at the property.
Mrs M says this was out of embarrassment at her husband being  in prison. Clearly, 
he wasnt there at the time  he was in prison  before Mrs M bought  the policy.
But Mrs M may have had it in mind  at that point that her husband  was in fact 
intending to return  to the property once his sentence is complete. This seems to me 
the more likely explanation for her giving the loss adjustor false  information and for 
her stating in her policy application that there were two adults living at the property.
So on balance I dont  think I can rely on Mrs Ms version of events   that she and her 
husband had been separated for a considerable amount of time before she bought 
the policy.
Whilst Mrs Ms version of events isnt inherently non-credible, she hasnt helped  
matters by changing her story several  times  during the course  of her dealings  with 
Aviva.
Even if I were to accept  what Mrs M now says  and assume she has been separated 
from her husband for several years  I would then have to decide whether she took 
reasonable care when  she didnt disclose her husbands conviction when she bought 
the policy.
If I were  to agree with Mrs M that she did take reasonable care, Id have to accept 
that she didnt  understand, when she considered the question about  previous 
convictions, that her husband was a person  to be insured. And that her failure to 
understand wasnt due to a lack of care on her part.
Im satisfied on balance  that Mrs M had her husband in mind  when she applied for the 
policy. As Ive already  said,  she said that two adults  were living at the property. And 
shes not suggested that theres anyone else involved.
Shes also told Aviva  and us  that she tried to get her husbands name off the 
mortgage. This suggests she knew he still had a claim  on half of the property and 
that he still joint-owned  the house with her.
So, its clear to me that when she applied for the policy,  Mrs M was well aware that 
her husband  jointly  owned the property. She was aware that she was insuring the 
property. And she was also aware  that she was insuring the house for its full value 
(not her half of it).
When I take all of that into account, I cant see how Mrs M could maintain that she 
took reasonable care when she said no-one to be insured had ever been  convicted of 
a criminal offence. I also bear in mind  that if Mrs M was in any way unsure  about the 
position, her duty to take reasonable care would imply that she should make further 
enquiries.
Ref: DRN01657095Ill summarise  my current position on this case.
Im not convinced that Mrs M and her husband have in fact been separated for as 
long as Mrs M suggests. This is primarily because Mrs M has clearly  given different 
versions of events at different times when it seemed to best suit her purpose. And 
she changed her story only when  it became  clear  that evidence  had emerged which  
contradicted what shed previously said.
Whether or not Mrs M and her husband are separated  and no matter for how long  
Im satisfied on balance  that Mrs M did not take reasonable care to provide  accurate 
information when  she applied for her policy with Aviva.
Im satisfied she had her husbands joint ownership of the house in mind when she 
bought the policy. And Im satisfied on balance  that if shed taken reasonable care 
she should have  realised this meant he was a person to be insured.
On that basis, Aviva  are entitled to decline Mrs Ms claim  and void her policy, in line 
with CIDRA and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
On that basis, I said I was minded not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Aviva nor Mrs M responded to my provisional decision. I cant assume they agree 
with it, but I havent  got any further  information  or evidence which might cause me to 
question the assumptions I made in coming to the conclusions  I did.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.  Im satisfied Aviva  werent  being  unfair  or 
unreasonable towards Mrs M when they decided  shed  made  a careless  misrepresentation 
to them  when she bought her policy. That being  the case, they were entitled to decline her 
claim and void her policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  set out above,  my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0165709