K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that a motorbike he got through a Hire Purchase Agreement  with FirstRand 
Bank Limited  trading as MotoNovo Finance (Motonovo) wasnt  fit for purpose.  He wants  to 
reject the bike, unwind  the finance  agreement,  have  a refund off the payment he has made   
less the one month he was able to use the bike  and be compensated for the loss of 
enjoyment.
background
Mr H says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with MotoNovo on 23 May 2018 for a 
brand new motorbike. He says within  a week of using the bike it kept cutting out. In August 
2018 the headlight fell off and there was a fuel leak.
He says in August 2018 the bike was still cutting out. The dealership had the bike for a 
month but, on its return, the cutting out continued and he said the clutch  was loose, the 
headlight wobbly  and there  was a scratch on the side panel.
He says as a result of an independent report he agreed to the bike being  repaired  not to 
rejection. But he says even after a repair the bike continued to cut out.
Mr H says the bike has now been  in for repair on numerous occasions  but the problem 
hasnt been solved. He says he has had minimum use of the bike only riding approximately  
300 miles.  The bike has been, and is, in storage  as he doesnt feel its safe to ride it.
MotoNovo said it arranged an independent inspection  which  noted the battery was in a 
discharged state  with the voltage  in the battery  perhaps being the reason why the bike kept 
cutting out. It said the dealer was entitled  to inspect the bike and replace the battery  if 
needed. It didnt  agree to rejection as it said the battery  was a wear  and tear item
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint.  He found  the independent inspection report  
concluded that the cutting  out issue was likely to have been developing at the point of sale.  
Unfortunately the fault persisted after repairs were carried out. He noted the bike had been 
returned to the dealership more than ten times. He felt the dealership  had had more than 
enough opportunities to try to repair the fault but hadnt been  able to do so. He felt it was fair 
to allow  rejection of the bike. He recommended that MotoNovo:-
-Refund Mr Hs deposit with 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
-Unwind the finance agreement and refund  all payments Mr H made less one months 
repayment to cover  the very short time when Mr W had use of the bike
-Compensate Mr H £250 for the distress  and inconvenience
-Ensure all information relating to this agreement be removed from Mr Hs credit file
Mr H accepted this view but MotoNovo didnt. It said Mr H had only provided details of the 
initial faults as shown on the independent  report. So it hadnt seen any evidence  that 
necessary repairs were completed, that they had failed  or what  the current  issues were. It 
also asked for an update  on the mileage on the bike.
Ref: DRN04189152A different adjudicator  who had taken  over the case considered these points but didnt feel 
the initial view should be changed.  He said the dealer should have provided evidence  of 
repairs and of the current faults. Mr W had previously requested  this from the dealer  but 
hadnt been able to get this He confirmed  the mileage was 368 miles.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr H has had problems  with the bike as soon  as he got 
it. I have  seen the Hire Purchase  Agreement Mr H signed. This confirms  that the agreement 
was for a new bike. We would normally expect vehicles to be fit for purpose with no issues at 
the point of sale. So I dont think Mr H should  have  expected to have any problems. All the 
more so as his bike was a new one.
I dont think that anyone is disputing that the independent report carried out in September  
2018 concluded that there was a problem with the battery which  might  be the cause of the 
bike cutting out.  The bike only started  when a booster pack was used and cut out when this 
was removed. The voltage on the battery was noted  as only 6.7 not 12. The conclusion  was 
that this would have been a problem developing at the point of sale.
In these circumstances we would normally allow one attempt to repair. I cant  find any 
evidence of what, if any repair was, being carried out. There  is no reference  to this in the 
customer notes that MotoNovo has given us. The notes refer to initial problems by the 
dealership relating to over filling of the fuel tank,  the cutting out issue which it couldnt 
replicate and rectifying a faulty indicator.
MotoNovo has rightly pointed out that Mr H hasnt given us any evidence  of ongoing issues  
after the independent report.  
I accept Mr H hasnt given  us any job cards, invoices to details from the dealership. But I 
dont think that is for want of trying. Mr H has given us a detailed  record  of the numerous 
times he took his bike in to be looked at  I think our adjudicator noted he did this at least  ten 
times  and of the conversations he had.
Mr H has also given us a text screen  shot of texts between himself  and the dealership in 
January 2019   so after the independent report had been carried out. In these Mr H is asking 
for evidence  of all the work that has been  carried out on the bike. That included  asking  for 
information about the repair to the battery  after the independent report  recommendations.
As the texts support  Mr H lengthy written statement of the issues  he has had it leads me to 
believe that his account is credible. I doubt  he would have been actively  pursuing evidence if 
none were to be found.
So I do believe him that the cutting  out problem either wasnt resolved  by a repair after the 
independent report  (Mr H says the bike was taken in to be repaired in October 2018) or if the 
bike was repaired it wasnt done  so successfully.
Its also clear Mr H has had limited  use of the bike. When the independent  inspection  was 
carried out the odometer showed 313 miles (on 26 September  2018) and our adjudicator has 
Ref: DRN04189153evidenced the current mileage is 371.15. Mr H has told us the bike has been  in storage as 
he didnt feel it was safe to ride. I think if the bike were fit to ride Mr H would have done so.
Based on the fact Mr H could have expected a new bike to be without faults, an independent 
report concluded there was an issue which would have been developing at the point of sale 
which could have been the problem  and the fact the issue  has continued despite being taken 
in for repair I do think its reasonable to allow Mr H to reject the car..
In addition to rejecting  the bike I agree with our adjudicators recommendation to refund all 
but one of Mr Hs monthly payments. As far as I can tell he has only had use of the bike for a 
month or so. I also agree compensation along the lines our adjudicator  has recommended is 
fair as I do believe Mr H has been  put to a lot of inconvenience and has certainly had little 
enjoyment of his bike.
my final decision
In full and final settlement  FirstRand  Bank  Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance
-Take back the bike at no cost to Mr H
-Unwind the finance agreement and show the agreement as settled on Mr Hs credit  
file
-Refund Mr Hs deposit with 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
-Refund all the monthly  payments Mr H has made with the exception of one payment 
to reflect  his usage of the bike with 8% simple  interest added to the total sum 
refunded
-Compensate Mr H £250 for the distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0418915