K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC. He is unhappy about the way it has 
reported his SIPP pension income  to HMRC. 
 
background
Mr C holds a self investment personal  pension (SIPP) with Barclays.  
Mr C takes an income from his SIPP. He did this through capped  drawdown and switched to 
flexi access drawdown  in 2016. In May 2018  Mr C questioned how his pension  income  was 
taxed as he received  only dividend  income  from the SIPP. He was told that all income from 
the SIPP was treated  as earned  income and subject to tax as pay as you earn (PAYE).
This was relevant  as the dividend payments were below the annual  tax threshold for 
dividends. Mr C said the income could be described  as dividends and so should be tax free.
Barclays explained that when dividend payments entered the SIPP  they were not subject to 
tax but were taxed as income when paid out of the SIPP. Barclays  insisted that the income 
payments had been taxed in line with HMRC  rules.
Mr C contacted HMRC. It said that SIPP income  for 2017/18  had been  described as PAYE 
income and if it was income  from a pension it had been taxed  accordingly.  HMRC said that if 
it was dividend income then an electronic amendment could be completed to inform  them  
and a tax refund could be made.
But Barclays  insisted that all payments to HMRC  had been reported  correctly and that they 
couldnt change  the way they are reported. They also said they were  unable to contact  
HMRC directly as they couldnt discuss individual client accounts. Barclays  explained that 
any overpaid tax could be reclaimed from HMRC by completing an online application  P55. 
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint but paid Mr C £150 in recognition  of the delay in dealing 
with it.
Mr C said that he had only become aware  of the P55 application when he received Barclays  
final response to his complaint and he felt that he could have been  told earlier.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by an investigator. He 
didnt think that it should be upheld. He explained  that income from a SIPP is subject to tax 
as PAYE. So Barclays wasnt  wrong  to report the income to HMRC as it had done. It may be 
possible to get a tax refund and Barclays had explained this in messages to Mr C both in 
November 2018  and January 2019  before it sent its final response.  The investigator also 
explained that he felt the offer of £150  for the delay was fair.
Mr C responded and said that he didnt agree that he had been  told about the P55 form 
before the final response.
The investigator provided a copy of the relevant message from November 2018 which did 
refer to the P55 application and the method to reclaim tax paid.  The investigator also pointed 
out that the SIPP terms and conditions were clear  in setting out that Mr C had sole 
responsibility for his tax affairs  and that Barclays would not provide  tax advice.
Ref: DRN05442772Mr C remained  unhappy and asked  for a decision from an ombudsman.  As no agreement  
has been reached the case  has been referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator and with his reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint.
I agree,  and I think Mr C has accepted, that the payment of £150 was a fair payment for the 
inconvenience caused by any delay by Barclays  in dealing with the complaint.
I think the crux of this complaint  is whether  Barclays dealt with Mr Cs SIPP  income correctly 
for tax purposes. Im satisfied that they did. Income  from the SIPP should, in the first 
instance, be treated  as PAYE income  for tax purposes. Tax would be deductible subject to 
Mr Cs personal  allowance  and tax code.
I appreciate that the underlying source  of the income was dividends, but the payments  from 
the SIPP should have been  treated  as income payments. Mr C may be able to claim a tax 
refund from HMRC as the income  from dividends didnt meet the annual  threshold but that 
is, in effect, a matter  between him and HMRC.
Im also satisfied that Mr C was informed of the option to claim a refund with form P55 in 
November 2018.  Whilst he was told of this option,  Im also satisfied that Barclays wasnt 
under any obligation to advise him on his tax affairs or wider tax liabilities.  The terms and 
conditions of the SIPP were clear  in stating that Mr C retained  sole responsibility for his tax 
affairs and that Barclays would not provide tax advice.
I can appreciate that claiming tax refunds personally is much  more inconvenient for Mr C 
than the automated refunds that had taken place  before and that he had been used to. But I 
dont think Barclays is responsible for that, or that it has done anything  wrong  which should 
justify my upholding  this complaint or making  any award. Its accepted  that it delayed in 
dealing with the complaint  and paid compensation for that. I dont make any further award.
Essentially, Im satisfied  that Barclays reported  the pension income correctly  for tax 
purposes and it was not under any obligation  to provide tax advice. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0544277