K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  that British  Gas Insurance Limited wont cover  the damage  to her 
property. Mrs L believes  that the damage  wouldnt have  occurred  if British  Gas engineer had 
done his job effectively.
background
The tenants living at Mrs Ls property reported a leak coming  from the ceiling of one of the 
bedrooms. Mrs L contacted British Gas and it sent an engineer  the same day. The engineer  
inspected the loft area and water tank and said that there was no leak. He suggested that 
the water  may have  come through a leak in the roof during recent  bad weather.
The next evening  the ceiling collapsed in on the bedroom, causing damage to the room.  A 
third party engineer was called  out who replaced  the water tank. Since then the leak has 
stopped.
Mrs L also says that a roofer attended  the property and could find no evidence of a leak from 
the roof.
British Gas agreed to pay for the cost of the replacement  tank and £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill, accepting that the engineer couldve investigated the root cause of the leak further.
But it said in terms of the damage caused to the room, the contents of the room, repairs  and 
the clean-up needed, this was caused due to a failure of the system and not its 
workmanship. So it was deemed consequential  loss which  it doesnt  cover.
British Gas pointed  to its policy which states:  
Were not responsible  for any loss of or damage to property, furniture or fixtures as a result 
of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused it. For example 
damage caused by water  leaks.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She felt that 
British Gas was responsible for the ceiling collapse. She asked  Mrs L to confirm the costs 
she incurred. Mrs L told us that she had incurred costs of £840 plus she also wished to claim 
for damage  to the bed which she hadnt  yet replaced.
Mrs L provided invoices  for all the costs bar the redecoration but the investigator said it was 
reasonable to assume redecoration wouldve had to have taken place.
In terms of the damage to the bed which was considered later, after looking at the photos  I 
felt that it would be repairable for £50 and Mrs L accepted this.
British Gas stance remained that the damage  was caused by the failure of the system and 
not its workmanship so it wouldnt accept responsibility for it. And that Mrs L should be able 
to claim on other insurance for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00477552Having done so I agree with the outcome  our investigator reached  and for broadly the same  
reasons.
British Gas is relying on the policy terms to say its not responsible  for the damage.  
Essentially British Gas appears to be saying that as its engineer didnt  do anything to the 
water tank,  he cannot be responsible for its failure. The wording used is unless we caused 
it.
A British Gas Engineer  visited the property one day before the ceiling collapse and could  find 
no leak from the water tank and attributed the water  marks on the ceiling to an issue with the 
roof along  with recent bad weather. The tenants  were already of the belief that the problem  
was with the tank before the ceiling collapsed, a roofer could see no issue  with the roof and 
a third party engineer  saw that the water tank was leaking and replaced it. Since the tank 
has been repaired there has been  no further  leak. 
From the evidence provided, it seems likely that a problem with the water tank caused the 
ceiling to collapse. British Gas seems  to accept that its engineer  couldve done more  but 
says it didnt cause  the ceiling collapse. However, I disagree, I think  on the balance of 
probabilities the engineers mis-diagnosis of the leak did cause the ceiling to collapse. Had 
he noticed the leak, I think its repair wouldve meant  that the ceiling collapse wouldnt have 
happened. So I think British Gas did cause  it.
Mrs L has provided us with a breakdown of her costs  with invoices for most of it. And I think 
the costs she is claiming are reasonable and realistic.
Mrs L also asked whether she could claim for a new bed, having looked a picture  of the 
damage caused to the bed, I thought it looked  like it could be repaired and suggested that 
£50 should cover this. Mrs L accepted this and so Ive also added this to the award the 
investigator recommended. This brings  the total claim to £890.
British Gas has said Mrs L ought to be able to claim on other  insurance  but I think she is 
entitled to claim under  this plan, so whether or not she has other insurance that may cover 
the claim isnt relevant.
So it follows  that I uphold  this complaint, British Gas are responsible  for the damage caused  
to Mrs Ls property and should meet her claim for £890.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint  against  British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mrs L £890 for the damage caused to her property.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ref: DRN00477553Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0047755