K821x#15complaint
Miss E is unhappy with how The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society Limited 
(NFU) has dealt  with and settled her claim on her car insurance  following an accident.
background
Miss E was involved in a car accident  in July 2017.  NFU said her car was a total loss and 
valued it at £1,000. It also found the car had previously been written off, so deducted a 
further 20% from its valuation to reflect  this. After deducting her excess of £100,  NFU paid 
Miss E £700 to settle her claim. Miss E was unhappy with this settlement.
Miss E also said it took her longer to register her car as off road (SORN) than it shouldve 
done because  of NFUs delays  in dealing with her claim,  so she had to pay an extra  months 
road tax. Finally, she was unhappy her cover  was reduced to third party fire and theft for a 
period of time and also asked for clarification about her premium refund and no claims 
discount after the accident.
When Miss E complained  to NFU it partially upheld her complaint. It said it hadnt  followed 
the correct process  when  it cancelled her policy following its decision to write  off her car. So 
it recalculated her premium and arranged for her to be refunded £165.25.  But it didnt uphold 
Miss Es other complaint  points. So Miss E brought her complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Miss Es complaint upheld it in part. Looking  at the industry 
guides, she said £1,800 (and not £1,000) was a fair value  for the car. But because  it had 
been written off previously, she thought it was fair of NFU to deduct  20% from this valuation, 
bringing the fair value down to £1,440. She then deducted the policy excess  of £100  and the 
settlement amount of £700 that NFU had already  paid Miss E. She said NFU should pay 
Miss E a further £640 to settle her claim. 
Our investigator didnt,  though, uphold any of Miss Es remaining complaint points. She 
didnt think NFU was solely responsible  for the delays  in dealing with Miss Es claim  and so 
didnt award Miss E any compensation for the road tax and insurance premiums  she had to 
pay in this period.  She also didnt think NFU had made a mistake in reducing  Miss Es cover 
to third party fire and theft in the relevant period.  And she thought  NFU had calculated    
Miss Es no claims bonus correctly.
NFU disagrees with our investigators findings  and so Miss Es complaint has come to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Es complaint in part. Like our investigator, I 
dont think NFU has acted fairly  and reasonably  in valuing her car.
My starting point here is Miss Es car insurance  policy. This says if her car is damaged, the 
maximum NFU will pay is the market  value of the car or the value shown on Miss Es 
insurance schedule,  whichever is less. Miss Es insurance schedule  shows the value of the 
car as being  the market  value not exceeding £75,000. Market value is defined in the policy  
Ref: DRN00735412as being the amount it would cost to replace the car with one of the same  make,  model, 
specification, age and condition as Miss Es car.
I should say my role in looking at this aspect of Miss Es complaint isnt to place a value on 
her car. Instead, its to decide  if NFUs  offer was within a fair and reasonable range. We think 
the fairest way for an insurer to decide  the market value  for a car is to look at the main  motor 
industry guides. We think these are persuasive, largely because their valuations  are based 
on nationwide research  and likely  sales figures  rather than, for example, advertised prices.  
But we also accept  there are fluctuations in the valuations  these  guides  give, because  
placing a value on a vehicle isnt an exact  science.
When NFUs  engineer inspected Miss Es car, he placed a value on it of £1,000. When our 
investigator asked to see on what basis hed made this valuation,  NFU sent her a screenshot  
showing three similar cars for sale on the open market. Theres  no evidence  NFUs engineer  
consulted the main industry guides  to get valuations, as I wouldve expected. When  our 
investigator looked at the main industry  guides, she thought the fair value was £1,800.
NFU agrees  the industry  guides show an average of £1,800. But it says that, when Miss E 
applied for her car insurance,  she gave  it an estimated market  value of £1,100. It says she 
insured it for £1,100 and the insurance premium she paid reflected  this. So it says that to 
value her car at £1,800 amounts either to betterment or means the car was underinsured.
I dont agree. I dont  think its fair and reasonable or in line with good industry practice for 
NFU to rely on the value Miss E declared  for her car in assessing its market value. It would 
be very difficult for Miss E to get an accurate market value for it unless she used the main 
industry guides. In the screenshot Ive seen, she was only asked to estimate the current 
market value and Ive seen no evidence she used  any industry guides to arrive at the 
estimate she gave. And its based on the market  value  of her car at the time she bought her 
insurance cover that her premium wouldve been  calculated. 
So I think its fair and reasonable and in line with good industry  practice for the market value 
of Miss Es car to be calculated at £1,800.  But I also think its fair for NFU to deduct 20% 
from this figure because the car had previously  been  written  off (it seems there may have 
been two previous write-offs although Miss E says she was only aware  of one of them). I 
also think its fair for NFU to deduct Miss Es excess of £100 and the settlement amount of 
£700 that its already paid out. And so, like our investigator and for the reasons Ive given, I 
think NFU should pay Miss E an additional  £640  in settlement of her claim. NFU has raised a 
number of other points  on this aspect of Miss Es complaint but, although Ive considered all 
of them,  I should  say Ive only dealt here with what I think are the main  ones.
Ive also looked  at Miss Es other complaint  points  and Ive decided  not to uphold them. 
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think NFU was at fault for the delay in Miss E making the 
SORN declaration  it seems NFU was, more often than not, trying to get in touch with    
Miss E to find out what she wanted to do with the car. I also think  its calculated her no 
claims discount fairly and, while it was waiting to see if Miss E wanted the car returned to her 
rather than sent for salvage, I think it was right to reduce her cover to third party  fire and 
theft.
Ref: DRN00735413my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Miss Es complaint in part and direct  The National 
Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  to pay her an additional £640 in settlement 
of her claim. 
The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss E accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation  from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
* If The National Farmers Union  Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  considers its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss E how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss E a tax certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0073541