K821x#15Complaint
Miss C has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly continued  to 
apply interest, fees and charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background 
Miss C complained that Halifax  had unfairly  charged  her overdraft fees when she was in 
financial difficulties. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Halifax  
hadnt treated  her fairly  and reasonably  and needed to rework  Miss Cs account  to remove 
the effect of all the interest fees and charges added to her overdraft from the point that she 
got in contact to say she was in financial difficulty in November 2017. 
Halifax accepted  our adjudicators view. But Miss C disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax  has already  agreed to
do to put things right for Miss C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain  why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where  a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business  to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong  hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit  they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business continued  to allow a consumer to use a credit facility  which  it should  
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt  paid any further  interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit  
from the point the lender ought  to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were  paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, as I understand it Miss C may have  since cleared her overdraft.  But even if she 
hasnt and shes been left with an outstanding balance any credits to Mis Cs account  will 
have been factored in and she will have  been refunded all of the interest,  fees and charges 
applied. So while Miss C may be left with a balance on her overdraft and she might be 
unhappy with this, Halifax will have  done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said,  we do look at each case individually and on its own particular  merits. And while 
we have a general  approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit  it shouldnt have (such as here),  we can and will tell it to do 
something different  and/or something  more if theres  a strong reason to say thats  what  
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances  of that individual case.
I understand that Miss C doesnt want the overdraft to be removed or her account to be 
passed to collections. Ive thought about what Miss C has said. But all the interest, fees and 
Ref: DRN00574032charges Halifax shouldnt have added will have been removed from the overdraft. So what  
Miss C might  be left to repay are the funds which she used and benefitted from and I think  
its perfectly fair and reasonable to expect Miss C to repay these funds and for the overdraft 
facility to then be removed given all parties agree it is unsustainable. So I dont think that 
Miss Cs unhappiness that the account might  be passed to recoveries, even after her 
complaint has been upheld,  is in itself a compelling  reason for me to depart  from our usual 
approach here.
Halifax has also agreed to set up an affordable payment plan for Miss C should a balance 
remain at the conclusion of her complaint.  So Halifax will take into account what, if anything, 
Miss C is able to repay when setting up this payment plan.  Bearing  in mind all of this, Im 
satisfied that what  Halifax has already  agreed  to do to put things right for Miss C is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
As this is the case, I leave it up to Miss C to decide whether she wishes to accept Halifaxs 
offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring  it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0057403