K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited did not carry out weekly door 
collections for six weeks following a change of management. He says this put his account 
into arrears and he wants the outstanding loan balance written off and an apology for the 
inconvenience.
background
Mr T borrowed £400 from Provident on 5 August 2016. The loan, plus charges, was due to 
be repaid through weekly doorstep collections of £12 per week for 63 weeks.  The collection 
process continued, with few issues, until July 2017 when Provident failed to collect the 
money from Mr T for six weeks. £12 payments  resumed for the last two weeks of August 
2017, but Mr T then paid £2 per week, and then £1 per week for the remainder  of 2017. 
These lower  repayments then continued into 2018 so that, by the beginning of May 2018,  
Mr T still owed £143.
Mr T complained to Provident  on 11 August  2017 because he says an Early Settlement 
Balance (ESB) he was given by a previous agent  was no longer available to him. He says it 
initially acknowledged his complaint on 16 August 2017 and, on 6 September  2017, it told 
him he should receive a response  within 28 days. Provident finally sent its response on 7 
December 2017,  after a further three letters acknowledging the ongoing delay.
Provident responded to say that it couldnt see Mr T was given an ESB and it wouldnt be 
able to stand by an earlier ESB figure,  as this changed on a daily basis  due to interest. 
Therefore, it said, it was not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T says this was not his complaint. He says the reason he was unable  to pay the original 
ESB was because hed had no doorstep collections for six weeks.  He adds that he was 
aware that other customers  had had the same issues with a lack of doorstep  collections and 
had their loans written off.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She explained that, on 
balance, she didnt  have  enough evidence to say that Provident  should allow  Mr T to pay the 
lower ESB.  She clarified that Provident  had no information to show  an agent  had given Mr T 
a settlement figure  and that ESBs change  over time due to interest. She added that Mr T 
had also not shown he would have had the available funds to pay the ESB in early July 
2017.
Mr T responded, in summary, to say, he did not provide a bank statement for July 2017  as 
the funds he was using to repay the loan were a gift and did not go through his bank 
account. He added that the only reason he didnt pay the ESB at the time was because 
Provident stopped visiting for six weeks. He says he considers that Provident are, therefore, 
in breach of contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN00915012Mr T says that when the agent visited on 3 July 2017 he was given an ESB of £1,457  for all 
his loans, plus one belonging  to his partner.  I accept that Provident says it has no record of 
such a figure  being given  to Mr T, so I have considered  whether I find that figure  reasonable.
Provident says the ESB in early  July 2017  would  have been £1,060.24 for Mr Ts four loans. 
When Mr T called on 11 August 2017, the equivalent figure  was £1,131.08 and he also 
needed to pay £481.21 to settle his partners account.
Mr T says that he had been given £1,500 on two prepaid credit cards to settle the original 
£1,457 ESB.  However, as the new ESB came to £1,612.29 he couldnt  then afford  to settle  
all five loans. So, Mr T says he paid off his partners loan and three  of his four loans.  He 
maintains that had the agent  visited the week after giving him the original ESB he would 
have cleared all five loan accounts  in full.
As the figure  Mr T says he was quoted seems reasonable  to me, I find it more  likely than not 
that Mr T was indeed given an ESB when the agent visited  in early July. I can only consider 
Mr Ts accounts  as part of this complaint, but I now need to decide  whether Im satisfied he 
had the funds available to repay all his loans the week  after he was given the ESB figure. 
Mr T says the money with which four of the loans  were settled was a gift from his parents. 
He said the funds were  loaded  onto pre-paid credit cards so the money did not appear on his 
bank statements. However,  Mr T has not yet provided any other evidence  to show  that the 
money was available to him in early July so Im not satisfied he would have settled the loans 
had the agent called  the week after Mr T was given the ESB.
I acknowledge that Mr T says that the lack of an agent visit for six weeks  was a breach of 
contract, but I cant conclude that is the case. Mr T received no penalty for the missed 
payments and Provident offers alternative payment methods if required. I also acknowledge 
that Mr T says other Provident customers have had loans written off for similar  reasons, but I 
can only consider  each complaint on its individual merits.
In this case, although I find it likely  that Mr T was indeed given an ESB on 3 July 2017, Im 
not satisfied he would  have settled the loans had the agent visited  the following week.  So I 
cannot conclude  Provident should write  off Mr Ts outstanding loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0091501