K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B through their representative complain  about the fees,  charges  and interest 
applied to their account  with Preferred Mortgages Limited. They  would like those charges 
reversed.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Preferred. The account had been in arrears  and 
Preferred added charges to the account.  Mr and Mrs B complain that these are excessive. 
Preferred said that it would review the charges in the period of six years before it received 
the complaint.  So, it reviewed the charges from April 2012. Preferred said that it would  raise  
arrears management  fees if the monthly  payments were received late or if there are arrears  
on the account and that its charges were in line with its tariff of charges.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and said that he could only consider those charges 
raised within the previous six years. His view was that Preferred shouldnt raise  an arrears 
management charge  where Mr and Mrs B paid the contractual monthly payment or a few 
pence below  it. He identified eleven instances  when that occurred. On that basis  our 
adjudicator believed that Preferred had overcharged  Mr and Mrs B. He recommended  that 
Preferred reverse those  charges amounting to £765  and associated  interest. Neither  
Preferred nor Mr and Mrs B responded to that view and so the complaint comes to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator has indicated that under our rules  we cannot consider any of the charges on 
Mr and Mrs Bs account that are over six years old. Preferred has accepted that point  and 
that we can consider the complaint about charges on the account from April 2012. I note that 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative doesnt  dispute  that. So, Ive looked  at those charges from 
April 2012. 
Arrears management  fees should be fairly  charged and should reflect the extra  work 
involved in managing an account in arrears. On the other hand,  if  Mr  and Mrs B reduce this 
work by meeting  the terms of an  arrangement  or making an effort to reduce the arrears that 
should also be taken  into consideration.  Ive noted  that Preferred raised arrears 
management fees in some  months although  from the contact notes there is no evidence  that 
it conducted arrears activity on Mr and Mrs Bs account. This should be reflected in a 
reduction in the arrears  management fees. I consider that our adjudicators view achieves 
the balance between those fees that are fairly  charged and those  that are not. So, I agree 
with him that Preferred  should reverse the charges  in those months that Mr and Mrs B paid 
the contractual monthly payment or a few pence below it. This amounts to a reversal of 
charges of £765 together with interest. So, I uphold this complaint on that basis.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Preferred Mortgages Limited to reverse 
the charges on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account listed in our adjudicators view of 29 
November 2018  together  with any interest applied to those charges.  
Ref: DRN02368602Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0236860