K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that their claim for damage to their home  under their home  
insurance policy has been declined by Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Mr and Mrs A bought their council  house  in 2006 having lived in it for nearly 20 years.  In 
2009 they noticed cracking and informed their insurance company. They were told the 
cracking was caused because  there was inadequate restraint  to the gable wall. The cracks 
were described as slight and Mr and Mrs A say they were told they didnt need  to do 
anything unless they noticed  the cracking gradually getting worse.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs A commissioned a chartered  building surveyor to assess  the damage to 
their home. The surveyor noted  vertical  and raking  (diagonal) cracks between the ground 
and first floor windows with other cracks to window heads and reveals.  Detail of one 
substantial crack was given  between the pantry window on the ground floor and the first 
floor window above. The crack was described as tapering from 1mm at the head of the 
window to 5mm at the window  above.  It was also noted that there were large mature  trees  
on the adjoining land, which were within influencing  distance. 
Comment was made  regarding RSAs previous findings of a lack of lateral restraint  in the 
gable wall. The surveyor was not persuaded this was correct  because he was aware of the 
first floor construction, which he considered gave good lateral restraint to the gable at 
mid-height. However, he did conclude some of the roof timbers  were inadequate,  given the 
span of the roof, and had become damaged because of it. 
Mr and Mrs A were  told the damage was being caused by roof spread and that the roof 
needed strengthening  and the cracks in the rear wall needed  to be reinforced  when  repaired.  
They were  in the process of arranging repairs when they became aware  of another nearby 
property that had similar damage. They  were  told by the owners of that property, the 
damage was due to subsidence. 
Mr and Mrs A reverted  to RSA and it arranged  for its loss adjuster to again inspect the 
property. This happened  in early 2017.  It was concluded that the damage wasnt caused by 
subsidence and RSA declined the claim.  
The inspection report produced by the loss adjuster in 2017 commented  on the 2009 loss 
adjusters findings  and those of the consumers building surveyor. It commented that the 
damage had happened  before RSAs policy was in place. The cracks and distortions were 
clearly longstanding and considered non-progressive. Whilst doors and windows were out of 
line the movement  that caused the damage to the property had probably taken place years 
ago. It was concluded the damage was not the result of subsidence  of the site and the loss 
adjuster was satisfied  RSA didnt have any liability under the subsidence peril.  The report 
went on to say the pattern of distress  was indicative of roof spread. 
Mr and Mrs A then commissioned  a firm of structural engineers to recommend a schedule of 
works. The engineer  said the previous diagnoses  of the cause  of the damage were wrong 
and the property was suffering from subsidence.  Some site investigations  were  undertaken 
and following this the engineer explained  that beneath the foundation of Mr and Mrs As 
home there was a 1.3 metre layer of soft sandy  clay, which  was on top of limestone bedrock. 
It said that the layer  of clay had compressed, which had caused the cracking.  It said there 
Ref: DRN00811832was subsidence  and that some underpinning was needed to support the property and stop 
the cracking. The cracks then needed to be stitched together.
In the late spring  of 2017 Mr and Mrs A provided  their engineers  comments and the 
investigation results  to RSA. RSA considered  this information and its loss adjuster concluded 
that when the house  had been built there had been some settlement.  This settlement had 
caused weaknesses  in the superstructure,  which  had led to the cracking Mr and Mrs A had 
noticed. The settlement movement  was historic (i.e. had happened before RSA insured the 
property). It also explained the pattern  of cracking wasnt  consistent  with movement of the 
foundations and for subsidence to happen, there  would need to be an external force to 
cause it. There was no evidence of any such external force. As such, RSA maintained the 
damage to Mr and Mrs As home was not covered  by the insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept these conclusions and RSA agreed to monitor the property for 
six months. Following this it concluded  the property was stable, there  was no subsidence 
and there  wasnt a valid claim under the policy. Mr and Mrs A were not happy with this and 
asked us to consider their complaint.
Our investigator considered the evidence in this case, but didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. She said that she wasnt persuaded the evidence showed the damage to Mr and 
Mrs As property  had been caused by subsidence.  As such, RSA was not wrong  to decline 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept the investigators findings. They said they accepted the property 
was no longer moving, but not that the damage hadnt been caused  by subsidence. 
During the course of our investigation Mr and Mrs A mentioned that Mr A had undertaken 
some repairs  to the cracks. He said that when  doing so it became apparent that the cracks  
were the full thickness  of the wall. However,  they dont have any photographs  or other 
evidence to support  this statement.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a 
provisional decision on 24 January 2020.  In that document I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
There are various different opinions about  the cause of damage  to Mr and Mrs As home. 
Indeed there  is more  than one opinion from RSAs expert alone. In the case of RSAs  
findings, I will take the most recent  conclusions as its position on the claim. When assessing  
different expert opinions  we take into account how well evidenced and explained the findings 
are; how persuasive  they are and the qualifications and experience  of the expert.
Ref: DRN00811833In this case both RSAs most recent  surveyor and Mr and Mrs As engineer have both 
disagreed with the earlier RSA findings and those  of Mr and Mrs As chartered  building 
surveyor. It now seems  to be agreed  that the cracking present in Mr and Mrs As home is 
due to downward movement of some kind. The disagreement is about what type of 
movement and when  it occurred. 
There is a technicality  involved in this case that I think  it would be of benefit  for me to explain 
to Mr and Mrs A. Two terms have  been used for downward movement of their home; 
subsidence and settlement.  Settlement is the process of compaction of the ground under the 
foundations of a building  caused by the weight of the building. It causes downward 
movement of the building and normally happens  within ten years of it being built.  Settlement  
is excluded under most policies as it is something that happens to most properties and 
insurance is there for unexpected,  fortuitous  events  rather than those  that are almost 
guaranteed to happen.
Subsidence, however, is the downward movement of the building caused  after initial 
settlement and due to a cause linked to ground conditions beneath the foundations. This 
could be the soil simply being weak, it washing away or the most common  cause is clay 
dehydrating and shrinking. 
RSA has said the initial settlement  caused weakness in the superstructure which  manifested  
in cracking. Settlement  can cause  cracking  so the basic concept is one that is plausible. 
However, the property  is thought to have  been  built around 1950. So any settlement process  
would have completed within that decade. However,  Mr and Mrs A have said the cracking 
didnt manifest until 2009,  arguably some 50 years after the settlement process completed. If 
there was a weakness in the structure  caused by settlement, it seems  a very long time for it 
to become apparent. 
In addition, RSAs  expert  hasnt explained  what the weakness in the structure was or how it 
affected the property.  No investigations were undertaken to evidence that such a weakness 
exists.  Nor has he explained  how he reached  this conclusion. 
RSAs expert has also said that all the damage  is longstanding. However,  Mr and Mrs A 
have said the cracking  became apparent in 2009. Given they had lived in the property for 
around 20 years before  buying it a couple of years  earlier, I think it reasonable that they 
would have known  when the cracking started. I see no reason to disbelieve  Mr and Mrs A 
when they say the cracks only appeared after they bought the house. As they were  insured 
with RSA from that point,  I am satisfied the cracking is damage that happened after the 
policy went into force, so there is damage  RSA is liable for. 
Mr and Mrs As expert is a structural engineer, so he is better qualified than RSAs  expert.  
He had investigations completed  and these showed  the house is built on soft clay that can 
be compacted.  The engineer also looked at the nature of the damage to the property and 
was satisfied it is consistent with that caused by subsidence. Given the nature of the soil 
beneath the foundations,  it is likely  the subsidence  has been caused because  of the poor 
quality/soft soil beneath the foundations compacting  for a period.
Having considered both of the opinions in this case,  I am minded to find that of 
Mr and Mrs As engineer more persuasive.  In light of this, my conclusion in this case  is that 
RSA should accept the claim for the damage  caused to Mr and Mrs As home that occurred 
after 2007.
Ref: DRN00811834The engineering report obtained by Mr and Mrs A changed the outcome of their claim. As 
such, I consider  it would be reasonable for RSA to reimburse them  the cost of the report  and 
the site investigations, plus interest from the date Mr and Mrs A paid for them to the date of 
settlement. 
I would, however, inject comment on the repairs  that RSA will need to complete to 
Mr and Mrs As home. Their engineer recommended underpinning to prevent  any future 
movement in the property. If the movement in Mr and Mrs As home is ongoing, RSA does 
have to stop it before it repairs the structure, but if the property is already stable, it doesnt  
have to do work to stop any future  movement occurring.
Mr and Mrs A accepted my conclusions  and asked that the cost of the repairs  they had 
already had completed be refunded.  Our investigator asked for details of the works done and 
proof of payment.  Mr and Mrs A provided  an invoice detailing  the works done  and evidence 
of a cheque for the relevant amount being  cashed  from their bank account. As the proof of 
payment Mr and Mrs A provided  didnt reference the payee, to ensure there would be no 
questions from RSA about the payment, the investigator checked with the builder and it 
confirmed the invoice had been  paid. 
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision, although I am satisfied it received it. 
Following Mr and Mrs As response to my provisional decision I considered  the evidence  and 
I concluded that it was reasonable that the money they had spent repairing their home be 
refunded by RSA.  We provided a copy of the relevant evidence to RSA and I confirmed that 
I was minded to require  it to refund the costs  incurred. I noted that the finish  to the wall being 
repaired had been completely removed  and replaced. I thought there was the possibility that 
RSA may have only completed patch repairs to the wall finish  if it had arranged  repairs,  
rather than replacing  it completely. In the circumstances, given how long the claim had been 
going on for I didnt  think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs A to have arranged for repairs  
and followed  the recommendations  made  by their builder for the format to those  repairs.  So I 
was satisfied the entire cost should  be refunded, even if it was more than RSA would have 
paid out. RSA was given  the opportunity to comment  further, but it did not.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further evidence or 
comment about the merits of the complaint, I see no reason to alter my conclusions.
I am satisfied from the evidence available that Mr and Mrs As home  suffered from 
subsidence damage and they have a valid claim. Also, my conclusion that RSA should  pay 
for the repair works Mr and Mrs A had done last year. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should:
accept the claim and complete any works  deemed  necessary;
refund  to Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid out for repairs in 2019 plus interest* from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
Ref: DRN00811835refund  the costs  associated with their structural engineer  and those of the site 
investigations. Mr and Mrs A will have to provide evidence  of payment of these costs  and 
simple interest* should be added from the date of payment  to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
*Interest should be calculated at 8% simple per annum.  If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
considers it is required to deduct  income  tax from the interest award,  it should  provide Mr and Mrs A 
with evidence that it has done so and the amount deducted  so they can reclaim it from HMRC  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN0081183