K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Clydesdale Bank  Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.  he  is 
helped in this complaint  by Ms S  but for ease, I will refer to all submissions as if made  by 
Mr P.
background
Mr P complained about some transactions on his credit card and his current account.  These 
all took place in early March 2016 and were all made using his original cards  and PINs.  The  
transactions were  all possible because cheques for substantial amounts were  paid into the 
accounts  and then returned  a week later as unpaid.   This left Mr Ps accounts in 
substantial credit  just under £40,000  on his credit card and just under £32,000 on his 
current account.
Mr P told Clydesdale that he hadnt  made  these transactions.   He accepted  he had paid the 
cheques into the accounts and said that this was for works he had completed.  He did not 
(and still has not) produced invoices or any other supporting evidence  for this work.
In relation to the transactions, he said his cards  and wallets had been out of his possession 
for approximately  eight days.  This  was because  they had been left in his jacket  on a site 
where he had been  working.  The owner  of the site had suddenly left the site locked  up and 
returned eight  days later.  At that point Mr P was able to retrieve his jacket with his wallet  
and cards still inside.
Clydesdale looked  into the transactions for Mr P.  It sent him a number of questions and 
whilst he answered the initial  ones, later queries were left unanswered.  So, in November 
2017 Clydesdale said it was going to close its investigation  as it had insufficient information 
from Mr P.  In  June 2018, it sent its final response letter giving Mr P referral rights  to our 
service.
Our investigator then looked into matters when the complaint came to us.  He  made  further 
enquiries of Mr P.  Mr P told him he had suffered a stroke and was in ill health now.  
Our investigator again asked for evidence of the provenance of the cheques  paid into the 
account.  Mr P was unable to provide  this.  He (the investigator) also asked a number of 
questions around  the compromise of Mr Ps cards  and PIN, dates of his hospital  admission, 
clarity on a previous comment  Mr P had made about  his PIN being stored with his card.   
Unfortunately no response  was received  so based  on the evidence he had seen, the 
investigator concluded Clydesdale did not have to do anymore.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, I have arrived at the same conclusion as the investigator  and for very much 
the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN03116922Im sorry  Mr P has not been well and this will be disappointing news  for him but in the 
absence of any further evidence, I cannot  say Clydesdale  has been unfair or unreasonable  
in holding him liable.
The starting point  for me in considering this complaint is the payment of the cheques into the 
two accounts.  I find it unusual practice to pay so many cheques into a credit card account  
and without any explanation as to why.  Equally, the cheques were all for considerable 
amounts of money  and for Mr P not to be able to evidence how he came  to be in possession 
of these cheques  is not helpful.   If they were  in fact for payment of works, I would expect him 
to be able to provide some evidence in support.  He has not been able to do that.
I then turn to the transactions.  Clydesdale is entitled  to hold Mr P liable for these 
transactions if the evidence suggests its more  than likely that he made  them.  But  
Clydesdale has to show Mr P consented  to the payments being made.  Its not enough to 
show his card and PIN were used.  In order to arrive  at this conclusion, it takes into account  
the evidence and circumstances as a whole.
The evidence is clear  that Mr Ps genuine  card and PIN were used.  He  has no plausible  
explanation as to how this was possible.   I know he says his wallet was locked away  from 
him for eight days  but that suggests whoever carried out these transactions  removed  his 
wallet, used his cards and then replaced them.  
Unfortunately for Mr P, this scenario leaves some  questions  unanswered.  How did the 
fraudster have knowledge of Mr Ps PIN and why replace the cards and wallet once they had 
finished using  them?   Why not discard  them.  There is also the issue of how the fraudster 
knew there were going to be sufficient funds in the account.  And finally, there is no 
explanation as to what action, if any, Mr P took upon being unable  to access his belongings 
for such a long period of time.  If they were  locked away from him, how did the fraudster 
access them?
Furthermore, Clydesdale spoke to someone  purporting to be Mr P when one of the large  
transactions was declined.  That  person confirmed the payment  was being made by him  
Mr P.  But  concerned it wasnt talking to the genuine Mr P, Clydesdale  asked the caller to 
attend a branch with identification.  I understand Mr P did that  and produced his driving 
licence.  This suggests that if it wasnt Mr P on the call, he was certainly aware  of it as he 
followed instructions  which  were given to him.
So, in the circumstances, I cannot see anything  which leads me to believe Clydesdale has 
been unfair in rejecting Mr Ps complaint   and it follows that I will not be asking that it does 
anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0311692