K820x#14complaint
Mr As complained about two high-cost short-term credit instalment loans he took out with 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP (trading  as Uncle Buck). He says Uncle Buck  shouldnt  have lent 
to him as he was already in a substantial amount of debt.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr A and Uncle Buck  had told us. And he thought 
that the checks Uncle Buck carried out before giving Mr A his loans were  proportionate. So 
he didnt uphold Mr As complaint.  Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr As complaint.  
Mr A was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Uncle  Buck 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Uncle Buck needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  
any lending  was sustainable for Mr A before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr A took out a first loan for £500 in July 2017. The loan was to be repaid  over a period of 
around three  months.  Mr A repaid this loan in October 2017. He returned  for a second  loan,  
a couple of weeks later, in November 2017.  This loan was also due to be repaid over a 
three-month term. 
Uncle Buck  says it agreed to Mr As application  after hed provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It says the information Mr A provided on his income and 
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr A and Uncle Buck have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that these loans were Mr As first loans  with Uncle Buck.  Mr A did take his second 
loan shortly after his first one. But I dont  think  that there was any established pattern in      
Mr As borrowing  needs  at this stage.  The information provided does suggest that Mr A was 
Ref: DRN03663752asked to provide  details  of his income  and expenditure.  Bearing in mind  the amount of the 
monthly repayment, the questions Uncle Buck asked Mr A and these were Mr As first loans,  
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Uncle Buck to rely on the information  Mr A was 
providing.
I accept that Mr As actual  circumstances  may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Uncle  Buck obtained. And Im sorry to hear 
that Mr A was struggling financially  and that hes been unable to repay loan two. But Uncle  
Buck could only make its decision  based  on the information it had available  at the time. And, 
at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve extended 
into Uncle Buck asking Mr A to evidence what he was declaring  and as such I dont think  
that it ought reasonably to have known  about Mr As gambling.  
Equally I can uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did something wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Uncle Buck did anything  wrong  in deciding to lend to Mr A - it 
carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information it mightve been 
provided with was inaccurate. Uncle Buck reasonably relied on the information provided  with 
and given the amount of the repayments involved and the overall  circumstances of Mr As 
loan history,  I dont  think it was unreasonable for Uncle  Buck to lend  especially as there 
wasnt anything obvious, in the information  it had, to suggest Mr A wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay  these loans.
So overall I think the checks Uncle Buck carried out were proportionate. As this is the case, 
Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I 
hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
I understand that Mr A may be having  difficulty paying back  loan two. So Id remind  Uncle 
Buck of its obligation  to treat Mr A positively and sympathetically should  it be the case that 
he is experiencing financial difficulty.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0366375