K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage in 1993.  The mortgage deal they chose included 
Mortgage Protection Cover (MPC) - this was what Nationwide called its PPI. It covered their 
monthly mortgage repayments in the event  that Mr F couldnt  work as a result of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint on the basis  that there  wasnt 
sufficient evidence to suggest that Nationwide had done enough to make  Mr and Mrs F 
aware that they may not have been  able to make a claim on the policy in all circumstances. 
Our adjudicator felt it was unlikely that Mr and Mrs F wouldve taken out the policy and 
mortgage if the exclusion for a pre-existing medical  condition had been drawn to their 
attention.
Nationwide disagrees.  It has raised a number of points in response to the adjudicators 
assessment and asked  for a review.  So this complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy limitations  meant that Mr F wouldnt have been able to claim for absence  from 
work as a result of a pre-existing medical condition.  Nationwide doesnt dispute that Mr F 
had a pre-existing medical condition when he took out PPI with his mortgage  in 1993. 
Nationwide mainly says that taking out its MPC was a condition  of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage 
and the policy limitations,  including  the exclusion resulting from pre-existing medical 
conditions, wouldve been brought to Mr and Mrs F's attention.  So if Mr and Mrs F hadnt 
wanted this particular mortgage deal with compulsory PPI they couldve looked for a different 
mortgage.
But I havent seen  enough information  to show how the policy  limitation was explained to 
Mr and Mrs F. Nationwide  cant say for sure how the mortgage and PPI were arranged. It 
accepts that Mr and Mrs F probably arranged  their mortgage at one of its branches  and that 
they wouldve  spoken to an advisor.  I agree that seems likely, based on what  Mr and Mrs F 
remember about this. 
Mr and Mrs F say it wasnt explained  that Mr F would be unable  to claim for anything  
resulting from his pre-existing medical condition. 
Ref: DRN03531452Nationwide was entitled to make PPI a compulsory part of the mortgage terms and 
conditions. But it still had to make sure it gave  Mr and Mrs F enough  clear  information about 
the policy so they could  decide if the overall mortgage deal with PPI was right for them.
Ive taken into account that Nationwide told us it gave the policy  leaflet to Mr and Mrs F when 
they applied for their mortgage and the policy document was sent to them later on. 
Nationwide says that the leaflet explained that claims  resulting from pre-existing medical 
conditions werent  covered   as wouldve also been explained by its representative. 
But, I dont know how or if the advisor wouldve explained that Mr Fs health condition  meant  
that hed have only limited benefits  under the policy. And I cant  be sure that Mr and Mrs F 
did get these documents,  particularly as Nationwide cannot confirm how it sold PPI to 
Mr and Mrs F.
And even  if Mr and Mrs F were given the leaflet and/or  the policy document Nationwide  has 
referred to, my view is that it didnt sufficiently bring to Mr and Mrs Fs attention  the 
pre-existing medical condition exclusion.  
It was up to Nationwide as the seller  to make the main policy  limitations clear. As I cant  see 
how it did this, I cant fairly say that Nationwide did do enough  to explain that Mr F wouldnt 
be covered for absence  from work  due to his medical condition.
Ive thought carefully about what I think Mr and Mrs F are likely to have done if theyd 
understood the full impact on them of the policy wording. Ive taken  into account that 
Nationwide says Mr Fs medical history  is irrelevant as weve found that MPC was 
compulsory in this instance because of the mortgage interest  Mr and Mrs F chose, and this 
was clearly explained to them at the outset.
Given his medical history,  I think concerns about Mr Fs health  wouldve been very much  on 
Mr and Mrs Fs minds  at the time  and something that was an important consideration for 
them when discussing future plans.  
I think its likely that they wouldve wanted  to avoid  a mortgage which had a compulsory 
insurance that wouldnt have covered them for a condition they may reasonably have 
expected at the time to lead to Mr F having to take time off work.
Nationwide suggests  that they couldve taken out the policy  in Mrs Fs name  but its records  
indicate that Mr F had 100% of the benefit of the cover.  Looking  at their circumstances and 
what theyve told us, I havent seen enough information to be able to say either that 
Mr and Mrs F understood the impact of the policy limitation on being able to claim or, if they 
had appreciated  this, whether they wouldve chosen  to arrange the cover differently.  
Looked at overall, I dont  think its likely that Mr and Mrs F wouldve wanted this mortgage  
with compulsory PPI if theyd realised theyd have  to pay in full for a policy that offered Mr F 
only limited benefits. Even though Mr F wouldve been able to claim other benefits the policy 
offered, on balance, I think this policy limitation wouldve been enough to put Mr and Mrs F 
off taking out this mortgage with this compulsory PPI. 
So it follows  that I think Nationwide  should refund the PPI premiums  they paid.   
Ref: DRN03531453putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs F in the position they wouldve  been in had they not taken  
out the policy. So, Nationwide should: 
Pay Mr and Mrs F the amount they paid each month  for the PPI 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs F made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs F a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mr and Mrs F as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0353145