K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) dealt with issuing him a 
new credit  card. And that it blocked the card causing  him considerable embarrassment. He 
would like more compensation than the £100  Barclays has paid
background
Mr R says Barclays sent him a new credit  card even though he didnt request one. 
Unfortunately he says as he wasnt in to sign for the card it was returned to Barclays.  He 
says Barclays sent a second  card, which didnt  require a signature which  he doesnt feel is 
right.
Unfortunately Mr R says when he tried to use his new card he couldnt as Barclays had 
blocked it. He says this caused him considerable embarrassment. 
He feels that along  with the time taken to deal with Barclays, the worry, stress and 
inconvenience deserve considerably more compensation  than the £100 Barclays has credit  
to his account.  Particularly  as he says Barclays has admitted it made a mistake.
Barclays agreed with Mr Rs complaint about the service he received when it issued a new 
card to him. By way of an apology it credited  Mr Rs account with £100.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint. She felt Barclays hadnt  followed its own procedure  
for blocking Mr Rs card as it explained  a block is put on an account when a card is returned.  
And only removed when it has heard from the customer.  Mr R contacted  Barclays on 16 
March 2019 to say his card had been returned  but the block  was placed and removed on 18 
March 2019. Had Barclays  removed the block sooner Mr R wouldnt have  had the 
embarrassment of his card being  declined. She recommended Barclays paid additional £50 
compensation.
Neither Mr R nor Barclays accepted  this view. Mr R didnt feel the increase in compensation 
was sufficient.
Barclays disputed the adjudicators findings  about the date the card was blocked. It said the 
block was applied on 28 March 2019 when Mr Rs uncollected card was returned to 
Barclays. And it said Mr R could  have collected  the first card issued and used it normally. It 
didnt feel there were any grounds for additional compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. Its not a pleasant  experience  for 
anyone to unexpectedly find their card is blocked  and they cant  use it.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr R didnt get the level of service  he expected to 
get and Barclays  expects to give with regard  to the issue of his new credit card. Barclays  has 
accepted that. 
Ref: DRN02974622The main  issue for me to consider  is the level of compensation. Barclays has already paid 
£100 which it feels is fair. Our adjudicator  suggested an additional  £50 which Barclays didnt 
accept. Mr R isnt happy  with the original £100  or the additional £50.
I appreciate Mr R says he didnt request a new credit card. But Barclays  has told us that it 
sent Mr R a letter advising him that it was sending a new credit card to him. The account 
notes support this was sent. It also sent a further letter  saying the card had been sent. It has 
given us copies  of its template letters. I have no reason to believe these werent sent out. It 
is true, as our adjudicator  pointed  out, that the first letter didnt say that the credit card would 
need to be signed for.
Barclays has explained it sent the first card by courier  as an additional layer of security. That 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me. And it does  offer some protection both to Barclays  and 
the consumer.  
Barclays notes show the second card was ordered on 18 March 2019  the notes state same 
day courier so it understands that card was also delivered by courier.  Barclays  understands 
that the courier has the discretion, if no one is in, and it feels the property is secure to post 
the item through the door. I can understand Mr Rs surprise that one card had to be signed 
for and one didnt.  But I find Barclays explanation plausible.
In terms of the block on Mr Rs card - the customer notes show Mr R contacted  Barclays  on 
16 March 2019  a result of which  a new card was ordered. Its unfortunate that at that point 
that any potential  block on receipt  of the first card couldnt have been foreseen  and avoided.  
But it wasnt. However as I understand Barclays process blocks are put on cards  
immediately when they are returned. This is for security reasons to protect customers.
Barclays says the account  was blocked  when the first card was returned to them via the mail 
system. It says it sent a text message to Mr R saying it needed to talk to him when it 
received the returned card. Ive seen its notes which confirm  that Mr R spoke with the bank 
on 20 March 2019 but the call couldnt  progress as Mr R didnt pass  security.
According to the customer  notes it seems  the block was applied and removed on 28 March 
2019 which is when  Mr R tried to use his card and was unable  to do so. Thats surprises  me 
as its  some days after Barclays  sent its text message  and was unable to complete  a phone 
call with Mr R
I dont think Barclays were  wrong to use a courier to issue  new credit cards.  And I do 
believe it used this service for both cards. Barclays  has shown it did try to contact Mr R when 
his card was returned. And when Mr R contacted the bank about his failed transaction  it 
promptly removed the block.  As I understand it, with the exception of one declined 
transaction, Mr R did have use of his credit card during  this time as there was an overlap 
between the old one expiring and the new one taking effect.
I think Barclays might have been  able to avoid  putting a block  on Mr Rs account when Mr R 
first contacted the bank and therefore avoiding the embarrassment of Mr Rs card being 
declined. And I do accept this caused Mr R some embarrassment and inconvenience.
Taking all of this into account  it feels to me that the £100 Barclays  has already paid is 
sufficient compensation  for the inconvenience and embarrassment to Mr R
Ref: DRN02974623my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint but the level of compensation Barclays has 
already paid is sufficient.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0297462