K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a Norwich  Union  
endowment policy for repaying their mortgage in 1989. They  say they were  led to believe the 
policy would repay  the mortgage and provide an additional lump  sum; they werent  made 
aware of any risks of the policy not doing that.
background
In 1989 Mr and Mrs R were first time buyers. At the time Mr R was a self-employed builder 
and Mrs R a self-employed hairdresser. They took out an interest only mortgage over a term 
of 25 years.  The policy, also set for 25 years, had a sum assured of £45,600 and was 
invested into the With Profits fund.  They  surrendered the policy  in 2008. 
Mr and Mrs R complained  about the sale of the policy in 2018.  Nationwide  didnt uphold the 
complaint as it was satisfied the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R. Not happy  with that 
they asked us to look into the complaint. Although  the complaint was made out of time from 
high risk warning letters  issued, Nationwide consented to us considering it. 
Our investigator concluded the sale of the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R. She also 
found no evidence  they had been given a guarantee. Mr and Mrs Rs representative has 
asked for the matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman. In summary,  they have said:
Mr and Mrs Rs background wasnt recorded at the point of sale to fully assess 
suitability. That Nationwide admit  the same strict  sales  process  that would be carried 
out today wasnt  carried out, admits  the policy was potentially mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs R were first time buyers, without any investment experience;  they were 
reliant on the advice  given.  
Documentation from the sale hasnt been  provided so comments about  what  would 
have been provided  are unsubstantiated  and unproven. 
Mr and Mrs R do not recall  a comparison being  made and were led to believe the 
policy would guarantee to repay their mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator and for much the same reasons. 
Mr and Mrs R have said they were  guaranteed the policy would reach the target  amount at 
maturity. Their policy was a conventional with profits policy. This means it had a basic sum 
assured - £15,868   on which bonuses were payable. The aim of the policy was to achieve  
the death sum assured  of £45,600.  These types of policy did not contain guarantees as the 
level of bonuses payable  depended on the performance  of the with profits fund.  With Profits  
funds are pooled  investments, generally investing into areas  such as equities,  bonds, cash 
and other  areas. Theyre accepted within the industry as being a low risk investment. 
I accept the policy was probably  sold in a positive light, particularly given investment 
conditions at the time. But that is far from providing  a binding guarantee  and I havent  seen 
any persuasive evidence  Mr and Mrs R were  given such a guarantee. So I dont uphold their 
complaint that they were guaranteed  a value at maturity, or therefore  a lump sum over and 
above that. 
Ref: DRN02011212Mr and Mrs Rs representative has said that Nationwide admits the policy was potentially  
mis-sold. I disagree.  As the representative ought  to be aware, selling standards have 
changed many times over the years  and it wouldnt be right or fair to apply todays selling 
standards to a sale that happened  30 years ago. That Nationwide mentions  this doesnt 
mean it admits the policy has been mis-sold. And that documentation from the sale is no 
longer available doesnt mean it wasnt completed at the time,  so I dont accept the 
representatives argument that the circumstances of Mr and Mrs R werent recorded, 
because records are no longer available. It simply  means Nationwide has complied with its 
data retention  obligations  and not kept records longer than it needed to, given Mr and Mrs R 
havent been customers in relation to this policy  for many years. This invariably happens 
when complaints are brought so long after the event  complained about. 
In the absence of actual  sales  documentation,  I base my decision on what information  is 
available and what I know about  the industry and Nationwides selling practices in general.  
Although I have found above that the policy wasnt guaranteed to reach the target  amount, I 
still need to consider whether the recommendation was suitable. I find it was because:
Although Mr and Mrs R didnt have any investment experience and were first time 
buyers that doesnt preclude them from having a mortgage endowment policy if they 
were willing  to accept  the risk.
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs R were willing to accept the risk at the time,  as the 
sales document that may have recorded this is no longer available. And I need to 
take into account that comments made  now are made with the benefit of hindsight. 
So I have looked at their circumstances to see if they were in a position to take risk in 
1989.
Mr and Mrs R were both working; they were  both self-employed as a builder and a 
hairdresser respectively. As they were  both working, they were both contributing  to 
the household expenses. Mr and Mrs R havent been able to recall  their income 
information. But we do know  they didnt have  any dependants  at the time. Im 
satisfied a low risk investment would  have been  appropriate for such circumstances.
The endowment  policy  included life cover which meant the mortgage could be repaid  
should either of them  die during the term of the policy. 
Although the documentation is no longer  available, I consider it likely that an 
illustration was produced at the time, showing what the policy might achieve  on 
maturity. In my experience, these illustrations would usually project  both positive and 
negative amounts against the growth rates used. 
An endowment  policy is a portable  investment that can be taken from mortgage to 
mortgage and so can be considered suitable  for those that are likely to move again  in 
the future.   As first-time  buyers,  this was more than a possibility for Mr and Mrs R. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Nationwides recommendation  for Mr and Mrs R to invest in a low 
risk with profits endowment policy for the repayment of their mortgage was unsuitable for 
them. Im satisfied they were in a position  to accept a low level of risk with the repayment of 
their mortgage and so the policy wasnt mis-sold.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 December  2019.
Ref: DRN02011213Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0201121