K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complains that Carfinance247 Limited (C247) didnt find him the best deal when  he 
was seeking finance for a car purchase.
Background
In July 2016 Mr O acquired a second  hand  car funded by a conditional sales agreement 
sourced by C247.  Mr O was in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) and C247 says it 
found him the best deal for his circumstances.
Mr O accepts he signed up to an agreement to borrow £7,129 with an APR of 49%. The loan 
was repayable over 60 months at £280.31  a month.  In 2019 Mr O complained to C247 that 
the rate was excessive. He said he had looked at other loan offers and he believed he could 
now get a better deal.  His complaint was rejected  by C247, so he brought  the matter to this 
service. It was considered  by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said that Mr Os credit status  would  have been  affected by his IVA and as such he would 
have been regarded as a high risk borrower.  This means he was offered a higher rate of 
interest than he might  otherwise have been.  He referred to the recent illustrative  rates Mr O 
had found and noted he had classed his credit record as excellent. This would generate  
better offers than if he had classed himself  as having poor credit history
Mr O didnt agree and said that his credit status had improved so C247 should reduce  the 
rate it was charging  him. Our adjudicator explained that the agreement  Mr O had signed  
didnt allow for the rate to be reduced.  The rate would remain as it had been agreed until the 
loan came to an end. Mr O asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Os circumstances have changed, but he signed up to an agreement which 
he acknowledges he was properly  informed about  and which doesnt allow for a rate 
reduction.
At the time he applied for a loan on his credit  status  was poor and that means any lender 
would have charged a higher rate, if indeed they would lend to him at all. This is because  of 
the risk of the loan being defaulted. If Mr O wants to make fair comparison with what is 
available now he would have  to rate his credit history as poor in any online tool he chooses  
to use. I would add that other  circumstances  may have changed over the period of some 
four years and lending  criteria may have altered making comparisons difficult.
In short  I dont consider C247  has done  anything wrong and therefore I am unable to uphold 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN04833402My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 
14 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0483340