K820x#13complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a Mortgage  
Payment Protection  Plan (MPPI) policy in 1993 with a mortgage. Only Mr G was covered by 
the MPPI.  Mrs G wasnt named on the policy.
background
Im really  sorry  Mr and Mrs G have  had to wait so long for an ombudsmans  decision. 
Theres been a legal  case affecting certain  MPPI cases similar to theirs. 
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators has already told Mr and Mrs G a while ago that they 
didnt think their complaint  should be upheld. Another adjudicator also wrote  to them recently  
saying, as their mortgage ended  in 2006, it wasnt affected by the legal issue Ive mentioned  
above. Although  I expect  they will be disappointed, I agree with this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about being  mis-sold 
the MPPI  policy.
Weve still got access  to the mortgage application form used during the sale in 1993.  Mr and 
Mrs G said they discovered that this cover wasnt something they needed to have and thats 
broadly why they complained.
I can see there was a section on the application  form about  MPPI. It recommended the cover 
and said if you wish to join the scheme enter  the amount of monthly benefit you require . 
£400 was entered in the relevant box and Mr and Mr G signed the application form. Mr G 
was then sent or given a certificate confirming he was covered by the policy.
Ive got no doubt Mr and Mrs Gs recollections are genuinely held and they honestly later 
thought that the policy was mis-sold to them. But I think the application form shows  the MPPI 
was optional. And I think the wording would have enabled Mr and Mrs G to see that they had 
a choice. Put another way, if they hadnt  wanted to have the MPPI, they neednt have agreed 
to it by entering the amount and signing the form.
I therefore think they agreed  to the MPPI and would have been able to see the cover  had 
been set up for them.
Halifax says it probably recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G as part of an advised 
sale. This corresponds  with my experience and means Halifax  had a duty to ensure the 
cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs particular  circumstances. I think  it probably was.
I say this because  Mr G was the main  earner, so it seems right he was included on the 
policy. The mortgage  was secured  against their home and so the consequences of them  not 
being able to make the repayments could have  been serious. The MPPI policy, on the other 
Ref: DRN03042512hand, was designed to pay a monthly  sum for up to 24 months if Mr G had needed to claim.  
This is quite  a long time and much  longer  than the sick pay he would have had with his job. 
Finally, Ive looked very carefully at the rules in the MPPI policy  document and I think Mr G 
would have been eligible  for the cover and able to make a successful claim if hed needed 
to. Overall, I think  the PPI cover was suitable. 
During the sale Halifax also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I cant say Mr and Mrs G were told or given all the information they should have 
been but I think they would have been  able to see how much the policy  cost and what was 
covered. I think they would have also been given a copy of the policy  rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G agreed to the 
cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs mis-sale complaint. And I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything more than the above  to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0304251