K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2005  and 
added to Mrs Ns existing  credit card. Mrs N says Marks & Spencer  Financial  Services Plc 
(M&S) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ns case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
M&S has provided paperwork from the time Mrs N applied for her credit  card.  It is clear  from 
the application form that PPI wasnt selected  at the time. 
But M&S has explained that the policy was added to Mrs Ns card during a telephone call a 
few years later. M&S no longer has a recording of the call which isnt surprising given how 
long ago the policy was sold. But it has given us the script it expected its representatives to 
follow during these types of calls. 
The script prompted the advisor to explain PPI was optional and asked for agreement for the 
policy to be added to the card. Based on what we know  about  how M&S sold PPI at the time,  
I think its likely the script  would have been  followed during the call. And I think its unlikely 
M&S would have added the PPI without Mrs N indicating she wanted it. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think M&S recommended the PPI to Mrs N so it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable  for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs N got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.  
Mrs N says she doesnt remember  being  given any details about the PPI. Looking  at what 
Ive been given, its possible the information  M&S  gave Mrs N about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs N was entitled to, as well as helping her cover 
payments if she lost her job. And I think it would have been useful for her if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N. But M&S  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N because:
M&S  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs N about that. Because  M&S didnt tell Mrs N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN08823572I know Mrs N feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes  put time and 
effort into her complaint.  Ive given  a lot of thought to all the points shes raised but for the 
reasons explained above these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back  to Mrs N any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0882357