K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited,  trading as Peugeot Financial  Services, hasnt 
paid him any compensation for the period when his car was being  repaired and he wasnt  
provided with a courtesy car.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr M under a hire purchase  agreement  with Peugeot Financial 
Services that he signed in May 2015. The car broke  down in July 2017 and was recovered  to 
the dealer. The cars engine was replaced  under warranty and the car was returned  to Mr M 
in September  2017  nearly eight weeks later. Mr M initially wasnt provided with a courtesy  
car but after about a month  the dealer said that it would pay for a rental car for him  but 
when he went to collect the rental car he was unable  to do so because he was too young. 
He complained to Peugeot Financial Services in February 2018  and said that he should  
receive compensation from it. He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that it 
was fair to charge Mr M for the time that he had no use of his car or a courtesy car. So she 
recommended that Peugeot Financial Services should reimburse  £500  to Mr M (the 
equivalent of two monthly instalments plus a partial payment for September  2017) and pay 
him £100 compensation for the inconvenience  caused.
Peugeot Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. It says,  in summary,  that had it known about the issues  at the time,  it may have 
been able to make arrangements  for an alternate car for Mr M - but as the complaint was 
brought to it following  the car's return,  it would've been unable  to assist with use of an 
alternate car. And it says that it feels that accepting the adjudicators  recommendation sets a 
precedent for faults brought so long after the point of sale as cars can go wrong from time to 
time but it cant justify  offering that level of compensation for any mechanical issue  at all 
stages of a finance agreement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the car that was supplied to Mr M had a faulty 
engine which needed to be replaced and that the car was with the dealer between July and 
September 2017 for that to happen. The engine  was replaced under warranty but Mr M 
wasnt provided with a courtesy car. 
He was making the monthly payments of £200  during that period  and I consider that it was 
reasonable to expect  that he would be provided with an alternative car when the car that he 
was paying for wasnt available to him. He didnt ask Peugeot Financial  Services to provide 
him with a courtesy  car at that time but its clear  that he was caused considerable distress 
and inconvenience  when he didnt have a car  and that the dealer was aware of those 
issues. And he was caused  further distress and inconvenience when the dealer agreed  to 
pay for a rental car but, when he took a day off work to collect it, he couldnt do so because 
he was too young.
Ref: DRN01228432I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Peugeot Financial  
Services to pay Mr M £500 to refund him for the monthly payments that he made  when he 
wasnt able to use his car and wasnt  provided  with a courtesy car and £100 to compensate  
him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. And I order  PSA Finance 
UK Limited,  trading as Peugeot Financial Services, to:
1.Pay £500 to Mr M to refund him for the payments that he made when he wasnt able 
to use his car and wasnt provided with a courtesy car.
2.Pay £100 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0122843