K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains about Legal & General  Insurance  Limiteds (L&G)  decision to decline her 
home insurance claim for theft and to void (cancelled from the start) her policy.  She also 
complains about  the poor service she received. 
background
Mrs N took out home insurance with L&G through a broker  on a price  comparison site. The 
policy started in December 2017. Both the policy and the property were  in her sole name.  No 
previous claims were disclosed during the sale of the policy.  In February  2018  a brick was 
thrown through Mrs Ns back  door window. Mrs N boarded up the window but the following 
day noticed the house had been broken into and some items stolen. Mrs N made a claim 
under her policy. She authorised Mr B to deal with the claim on her behalf. 
On checking the claims database, L&G noticed that Mrs N had also insured two other 
properties. At property  A (where Mr B resides) thered  been  a claim in May 2017 for 
accidental damage  to a laptop (made to L&G, the insurer at the time). The claim value was 
£1,299. At property  B thered been an escape of water claim that was subsequently 
withdrawn. 
L&G told Mrs N it wasnt going to pay her theft claim because  it was going to void her policy  
because she didnt  tell it about the claim when taking the policy  out. Mrs N told L&G that 
shed never  made a claim. She said the laptop claim was nothing  to do with her and property 
A had nothing to do with her either.  She said the laptop claim related to Mr B who didnt live 
with her. As a result, L&G decided not to void the policy and to continue  with the theft claim.  
About a week later there was a phone call between  Mr B (acting on Mrs Ns behalf) and L&G 
in which  he referred  to Mrs N as his wife. L&G decided to decline the claim and void the 
policy. 
Mrs N complained to this service about  L&Gs decision. She said that the laptop claim was 
made by her partner  under a policy  for a different property. As the theft claim had been  
made under a policy which  was in her sole name there were  no prior claims she needed  to 
disclose. 
Our adjudicator investigated Mrs Ns complaint  and recommended that it was upheld. He 
said that L&G had agreed to proceed  with the claim so should now pay it, together  with 
interest at this services  usual rates and compensation of £200  for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor service caused  Mrs N. 
Mrs N accepted our adjudicators findings  but L&G said it didnt. It said the voidance  had 
been correct and it asked for the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision to say I wasnt minded  
to uphold it. I made the following  provisional  findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs N, I dont think her complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN07093262When this complaint was referred to me I asked L&G to provide me with some additional 
information which it has now done. This included  evidence which showed that Mrs N and   
Mr B had been joint policy holders for property  A at the time of the claim for the damaged  
laptop. It also sent me recordings  of phone calls itd had with both Mrs N and Mr B. I have 
now listened to all of them.  
Ive seen a copy  of the home insurance policy schedule for property A. Mrs N is named as a 
joint policyholder  on the schedule along with Mr B. The schedule is for the policy year 
December 2016  to December 2017.  The claim for accidental damage to the laptop was 
made under that policy in May 2017. The marital status of both policyholders  is cited  as 
married. In a recent email to our adjudicator, Mrs N states that Mr B is her husband.  
I think its clear  from the available evidence that a claim was made under a policy Mrs N was 
a joint policyholder on just 7 months  before she took out the policy that is the subject of this 
complaint. Its also clear that at no time during  the call I listened to between  Mrs N and L&G 
on 15 February 2018  during which there were numerous references  to Mr B  did Mrs N 
refer to him as her husband.  She only referred  to him as the individual that shed authorised 
to handle the claim on her behalf.  The call handler  at L&G says at one point during the call 
that its strange  that L&G had picked up a claim associated with a third party. But theres no 
mention from Mrs N in response  to that statement that the third party is actually her husband 
nor that the claim was made under a policy shed  held jointly  with him. 
As a consequence of this call L&G reversed  its decision to decline the claim,  void the policy  
and return the premiums. That decision was reversed again  a week later when it became 
apparent to L&G that Mr B and Mrs N were husband  and wife and that the claim for the 
laptop had been made against  a policy theyd  held jointly.
L&Gs underwriters have  said they wouldnt have issued the policy if the claim had been  
disclosed. Ive seen a note from the underwriter that its acceptance criteria for the broker  
that sold the policy was that thered been no claims within the previous 12 months. So I dont  
doubt that L&G wouldnt have issued the policy if itd known about the laptop claim. I can see 
(from the statement of fact associated  with the 2016-2017 policy) that the question L&G asks 
its customers is Have  you, or anyone  who normally lives with you, suffered  any loss, 
damage or liability anywhere during  the last five years, whether insured or not?  
But it wasnt  L&G that asked Mrs N about previous claims when she took the policy out in 
December 2017,  it was the broker. Ive checked  its statement  of facts and it says there, 
About claims, incidents and losses  (whether  insured or not) in the last five years   No 
previous claims disclosed. So Mrs N was asked a question about  whether shed had any 
claims in the last five years but she failed to mention the laptop  claim from 7 months earlier  
under the joint policy she held with her husband.
When taking a policy out a consumer must take reasonable care  not to make a 
misrepresentation. If an insurer discovers  that a misrepresentation has been  made,  and it 
wants to cancel the policy and refuse any claims,  it needs to show that it wouldnt have 
entered into the contract at all. For the reasons I gave above, I think  that L&G has been  able 
to show this. 
If I were  going to uphold  this complaint  Id have to be satisfied that L&G had treated Mrs N 
unfairly by voiding  her policy and declining her claim. Unfortunately  for Mrs N, I dont think it 
has. Mrs N was asked  about claims shed had in the last five years  and she didnt disclose 
Ref: DRN07093263the claim for the damaged  laptop  that had been  made only 7 months before. L&G has shown 
that if itd known about that claim it wouldnt have entered  into the contract  at all. Its 
cancelled the policy back to its start date which means there is no cover at the time the theft 
claim occurred. So it follows that I also dont think its unreasonably declined Mrs Ns theft 
claim. As I dont think that L&G has treated Mrs N unfairly I dont think  it should  pay her any 
compensation. I do note that L&G has said it has returned Mrs Ns premiums which, in the 
circumstances, I think  is fair. 
L&G replied  to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. Mrs N hasnt 
provided a response. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  comments or new evidence has been received, the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision remains unchanged. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision,  I 
dont think that L&G has treated Mrs N unfairly  by voiding her policy and declining  her claim. 
Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs N, Im not upholding her 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0709326