K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim for 
accidental damage  under his home  insurance policy.
background
Mr P made a claim to Admiral after his garden  wall collapsed due to a neighbours tree 
falling on it. Admiral accepted the claim and instructed its contractor to carry out repairs. 
Over a three week period  its contractor  rebuilt  the boundary wall at the rear of Mr Ps 
property.
After the work had finished, Mr P complained  to Admiral  that its contractor had damaged his 
driveway with the weight  of wheelbarrows and vehicles being  repeatedly  wheeled  and driven  
over the affected  area. He said there was a sunken  area of driveway  around  a gully.
Admiral said as a goodwill  gesture its contractor had lifted the bricks in that area and found a 
defective soakaway. Its contractor had then filled the area with sand and slotted the bricks 
back in place. Unfortunately  that repair failed and another dip in the driveway appeared. 
Admiral thought the only way to stop the damage  from happening again was to put right the 
damage with the soakaway before backfilling the sunken area and then relaying the bricks. It 
said that wasnt its responsibility as its contractor didnt accept it had caused the damage.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
there was enough  evidence  to say that Admirals contractor had caused the driveway to sink.
As Mr P didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from photos that there is a dip in Mr Ps driveway.  Hes provided evidence that the 
drive was used for (amongst other  things) mixing cement, transporting  heavy  materials  to the 
back garden and loading the skip. He says this caused his driveway to sink in one area.
Admiral on the other hand says the damage has been caused by a defective soakaway 
under the drive.
I have to decide cases based  on what I think is most likely to have happened  in the light of 
the available  evidence. Unfortunately for Mr P theres not enough  evidence  to convince me 
that Admiral has treated  him unreasonably in respect of his driveway.  I wouldnt  expect  the 
activities of the contractor to cause this sort of damage to a driveway  unless there was some  
sort of underlying  issue with it. I find Admirals evidence more  persuasive in this respect.
Mr P also thinks  Admiral  is liable to repair the damage because its contractor accepted 
liability for the damage originally and carried out a repair which  has since failed. Admiral 
denies this and says t its contractor  only carried out the initial repair  as a goodwill gesture.
Other than the fact that the contractor did try to repair the damage, I havent  seen any 
evidence to persuade me that the contractor accepted liability  for the damage. It wasnt  a big 
Ref: DRN07747502job for it to take up some  bricks,  have  a look underneath and fill the space  with some sand 
before replacing  the bricks. I think its more likely  that it did this as a gesture of goodwill than 
because it accepted liability for the damage. I also havent seen any evidence  that this repair  
made the condition  of the driveway  worse than it had been to start with. So I dont think one 
failed repair  means  that Admiral is now liable to carry out a further and more effective repair.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0774750