K820x#14complaint
Miss M was involved in a road traffic accident in April 2018  and her car was written  off by her 
insurers, Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited. Shes unhappy with the overall  service  she 
received from Admiral.
background
Following a road traffic  accident,  Miss Ms car went in for repair, and she was provided with 
a courtesy car. But her car was deemed to be uneconomical for repair, and she had to give 
back the courtesy car before  she received  payment for her car. Miss M has complained  that:
Admiral didnt tell her that her car had been  written off, the garage did. But the 
garage wouldnt tell her why.
There was a delay  in valuing her car, which delayed her receiving payment.
Admiral didnt provide  her with a courtesy car for the period from when her car was 
damaged until when a final decision had been made on the valuation. Because she 
lived in a rural location, with limited public transport links,  having access  to a courtesy 
car was very important  and she wouldnt have taken an insurance  policy  that didnt 
provide one. Because of this she feels that Admirals advertising was misleading.
Admiral forgot that it was her car and they failed  to share  information  with her so a 
valid decision could be made.
Admiral breached her personal data by passing it on to companies who then 
contacted her about making a claim for personal  injury.
In their final complaint  response Admiral said they are able to deal with all claims as they 
see fit, and that they deal with each claim under the best possible terms. But they said theyd 
not told her that her car was uneconomical to repair when they shouldve done; and that the 
garage contacted  her prematurely about  this and shouldve explained this better. 
Admiral also said they didnt send Miss M documentation when they said they would, and 
chased her for a questionnaire when  they shouldnt have. Because of this, Admiral  paid 
Miss M £100 compensation.
Our adjudicator found Admiral had acted  reasonably. He felt they had the right to settle  the 
claim, and Miss Ms policy only allowed for a courtesy car while her car was being repaired  
once her car was written off, the courtesy car shouldve been  returned. He also couldnt see 
anything to show that Admiral had passed  Miss Ms details to any third party company.
But he also felt the £100 offered by Admiral  was reasonable for them not telling  Miss M that 
her car wasnt going to be repaired,  and for them not sending documentation  when  asked. 
Because of this, he didnt think Admiral should  do anything  more.
Miss M didnt agree with the adjudicator  and she feels he missed the point of her complaint. 
She says Admiral advertised  they would provide a courtesy car if she had an accident, and 
shed purchased the policy on this basis. But when she had an accident they didnt  fulfil their 
end of the contract. She said the amount of time taken to process  the valuation,  and provide  
the payment,  wouldnt have been an issue if she hadnt been stranded without  a car and 
unable to get to work without significant financial outlay. 
Ref: DRN06396702Miss M has also said she has no issues with Admiral making the decision that it was not 
economical to repair  her car. But they didnt share the information  with her at the same  time 
as the garage. She feels they shouldve done this, and discussed  the options  of either 
accepting the value of the car for it to be written  off or to take payment in lieu of repairs.  She 
feels this was the point Admiral  forgot  it was her car - when they forgot she could request 
payment in lieu.
Because of this she doesnt feel the £100  offered by Admiral was sufficient.  She says that 
Admirals actions in taking away the courtesy  car too soon cost her £300, and she would like 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M says she only went with Admiral because  they provided  a courtesy car. I havent 
seen the advert Miss M responded to, but I have seen Admirals website. This says a 
courtesy car is available  whilst  your car is being repaired at an Admiral approved garage. 
Admiral also offers additional hire car cover for when a car has been written  off, but Miss M 
didnt take this option.
Ive also seen the terms of Miss Ms insurance  policy with Admiral. These say Admiral will 
provide you with a courtesy car while your car is being repaired by our Approved  Repairer,  
unless we decide your car is beyond economical  repair. I accept Miss Ms circumstances  
meant only having a courtesy car while  hers was being repaired didnt give her what  she 
needed, but it was what her policy  entitled  her to. Because of this I cant agree that Admiral 
didnt fulfil their end of the contract.
Miss M also said it took longer than expected for the valuation of her car to be sorted, and 
this delay was frustrating because she was without  any form of transport.  Miss M spoke to 
Admiral about her car being  written  off on 17 April 2018.  In this call Admiral  explained her 
options  she could be paid the pre-accident value (PAV) of the car or she could have  the 
car back and take the PAV minus the salvage value. Admirals case  notes show  that Miss M 
was unsure of which option to take and Admiral said they would let her know the PAV.
Before the PAV could be confirmed, Admiral needed  some questions answered.  Miss M 
didnt answer these until 25 April. The same day Admiral confirmed the PAV to Miss M. 
Admirals case  notes  show  that Miss Ms options were also discussed with her on the call 
where she was advised  of the PAV.
I appreciate Miss M was frustrated by not having access to a courtesy car. But Admiral  dealt 
with the valuation as soon  as they were  able, and they discussed Miss Ms options with her. 
Because of this I cant say that Admiral  shouldve done anything more.  
But Admiral  didnt tell Miss M that her car was uneconomical for repair, and she found  this 
out from the garage. They also didnt send her documentation when they said they would. 
Had they done this, it wouldnt have changed  the situation for Miss M  she would still have 
been without a courtesy car. Because of this, I agree with the adjudicator  that the £100 
Admiral have already  paid to Miss M was reasonable in the circumstances, and I wont  be 
asking them to do anything more.
Ref: DRN06396703my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0639670