K820x#14Complaint
Mrs R complains that Agria  Pet Insurance  Ltd (Agria Pet) didnt cancel her pet insurance 
policy when she told it to and continued  to collect the policy premium payments which it 
wont refund. My references  to Agria Pet include its agents.
Mrs R will see that my decision is about her as a sole complainant, rather  than a joint 
complainant with her husband as detailed in our investigators correspondence. Mrs R is the 
sole policyholder  and the correct complainant  for my decision to be about. The change  in 
complainant hasnt affected  the outcome of the complaint. Mr Rs represented in her 
complaint by her husband.
What happened
Mrs R took a pet insurance  for her dog in March 2010. Agria  Pet arranges and administers 
the policy through an agent. Agria Pet isnt one of the policys  insurers.  The insurers  are 
separate businesses.
In 2018 Mrs R complained to Agria  Pet that it had continued to renew and take premium  
payments for the policy even though shed rehomed the dog to a new owner in 2011. She 
said shed phoned  Agria Pet to cancel the policy at the time of the rehoming and she hadnt 
received any policy  documents  since 2011.
Mrs R said that until 2018 she believed the policy premiums she continued to pay were  for 
her cats insurance. She only realised the policy  was for the dog when in 2018 she tried to 
make an insurance claim for the cat and realised she was paying other insurance for the cat. 
She wants Agria Pet to refund  the premium payments shed paid from when she transferred 
her dogs ownership in 2011.
Agria Pet said it had no record of Mrs R, or her husband, contacting  it to cancel the policy. It 
also said it had sent the policy documents each year to the address it had on file, which  was 
the address Mrs R gave  when she took out the policy.  Under the policy  terms the policy 
automatically renewed each year unless Mrs R contacted it to cancel. Agria  Pet cancelled  
the policy in September 2018  when it received  Mrs R instructions to do so.
Our investigator initially thought Agria Pet had acted fairly  in continuing to take the premium 
payments and didnt  need  to refund the premiums.  Mrs R then provided new evidence  a 
statement from the new owner who had rehomed  the dog with supporting  vet records.
Our investigator revised  his recommendation due to the new evidence from Mrs R. He said 
that on the transfer of the dog to the new owner Mrs R no longer had an insurable interest. 
Agria Pet wasnt at risk from then on and Agria Pet should refund the premium  payments. 
Agria Pet disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said during its investigation  
Mrs R hadnt provided any evidence of transfer of the dog's ownership  or that hed been  
insured by his new owner elsewhere.  The change of ownership wasnt registered  with the 
Kennel Club. It accepted  that on transfer  of ownership the insurable interest was no longer  
with Mrs R. But Agria Pet believed strongly  that Mrs R was responsible for cancelling  the 
policy and it wasnt fair for it to refund the premiums when it hadn't made an error.
Before I made my decision I asked Agria Pet to tell us:
Ref: DRN04021612who the insurers were  for the policy since 2010  and whether it administered  the 
policy on those insurers behalf,  and
where there was more  that one insurer for a policy  year what percentage of the 
premium did each  insurer receive for each year.
Agria Pet told us that one insurer had underwritten and administered  the main  policy  
elements since the start of the policy. The third party liability  element of the policy had been 
underwritten by two different  insurers  over the years  and the third party element of the 
premium was negligible.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to say Agria  Pet didnt need to refund any 
premiums. I said:
The rules  under which we operate say that we can't look at a complaint if it was made more 
than six years after the event complained of, or if later, three years from when the customer  
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been  aware, of cause for complaint.
From July 2015 we need to have consent  from the business before being able to consider 
the merits of a complaint that's made out of time. Once a business has consented it wont  be 
able to change  its mind. Agria Pet consented to us looking  into the complaint so I havent  
considered whether we could have looked at the complaint if it hadnt  consented.
This decision is just about whether Agria Pet, the administrator of the policy,  acted fairly  and 
reasonably in continuing to collect the premiums  and not refunding the premiums to Mrs R.
Ive made  a separate provisional decision about  one of the insurers  of the policy.
Agria Pets  system shows that it sent Mrs Rs renewal schedule and policy documents  from 
March 2011 to 2018 to the address Mrs R gave it when the policy  was set up. The letters 
were sent before each policy renewal and the name  of the insured pet is clear. The address 
the documents were sent to is the same  address  as we have  on our system for Mrs R. 
Agria Pet says it didnt  receive any notification from the post office that any of those letters  
had been undelivered.
Agria Pets  responsibility  is to send the documents to Mrs R at the correct address. Im 
satisfied from the evidence its provided  that it did so. Its not responsible  if the documents 
werent delivered to Mrs R.
The policy is clear that Agria  Pet will automatically renew the policy  if the premiums are paid 
by instalments and that Mrs R must  either tell it if she wants  to cancel or cancel her payment 
if she doesnt want the policy. Agria Pet has no record of Mrs R asking it to cancel the policy 
before September 2018. Mrs Rs provided  no evidence  to support that she asked it to cancel 
the policy before 2018.
The policy also says that if Mrs R no longer owns her dog, she must tell Agria  Pet. As Ive 
said theres no record she told it before September 2018.
Im satisfied that Agria Pet acted fairly in continuing  to take the premium payments from 
Mrs R for the policy. It could reasonably believe that she wanted the policy  to continue.  In 
Ref: DRN04021613September 2018 when it knew she didnt want to continue it cancelled the policy  and 
stopped collecting  the premium.
When Agria Pet considered Mrs Rs complaint it said it wouldnt refund  the premium  
payments from 2011 onward.
There may be an issue of Mrs R no longer  having an insurable interest in her dog when she 
transferred his ownership. If so it may be fair for some of the premiums  to be refunded  to 
her.
But importantly Agria Pet isnt an insurer of the policy and it didnt receive the benefit of the 
premiums. The policy says Agria Pet's agent  collected premiums on the insurers behalf. So, 
even if I thought some premiums should  be refunded to Mrs R, Agria  Pet isnt the right
business for me to say that it must  refund the premiums.
I think Agria Pet acted fairly and reasonably. Agria Pet doesnt need  to refund any premiums 
to Mrs R.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties  had no further comments.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs R or Agria Pet have objected to my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings 
I dont uphold the complaint against  Agria Pet. I think Agria  Pet acted fairly and reasonably 
and it doesnt  need to refund any premiums  to Mrs R.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Agria Pet Insurance  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0402161