K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account  (PBA),  called a Premier account in 2010.
Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly  fee for the account and received several potential benefits  in
return. They think that Lloyds should  refund  them the fees they paid,  plus interest.
background
I previously sent Lloyds and Mr and Mrs B a provisional decision on this complaint. That
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and
I explained why I didnt think that Lloyds  had mis-sold the Premier account to Mr and Mrs B.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence they wanted me to
consider before I made  a final decision.
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. Lloyds has accepted my 
provisional decision with nothing further to say. Mr and Mrs B have brought several points to 
my attention.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds have told us or sent us
throughout the case, and I have  decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
In outline, in response to my provisional  decision, Mr and Mrs B have made the following 
main points: 
They think that the situation they faced was definitely a home emergency. They have 
explained that they lost heating  in all the daytime living  areas of their house in cold 
weather, which  they think was a risk to their health.
They think that I have  suggested that they were  at fault for not checking the 
insurance when  it was renewed  each year. They  disagree strongly  with this 
suggestion. 
They have explained that most of their dealings were with Lloyds (not the insurer)  
and that Lloyds was therefore responsible for ensuring that their contractor correctly 
honoured the insurance. They have stressed that they had insurance  with Lloyds 
bank insurance  services, not any sub-contractor they chose to use.  
They have pointed  out that before Lloyds sold them  the Premier account, they had 
another PBA with a different bank  and that although they held a Lloyds basic  
account, this was only during the change over situation. They think that the 
comments I made about fee-free bank  accounts  were incorrect. 
I have considered each of these points in turn.
Ref: DRN01814602They had a genuine home emergency  
I fully accept that Mr and Mrs B faced  an unpleasant  situation. I said in my provisional 
decision that I thought it was certainly  possible that the situation in which  they found 
themselves when part of their heating broke  down  may have been  a home emergency under 
the terms of the policy. But I also pointed out that this question would need to be considered 
as an insurance claim, not as part of a complaint  about a possible mis-sale  of a packaged 
bank account.  This remains my position.
In short,  I do not know whether  the insurer was right or wrong to reject Mr and Mrs Bs claim, 
but in my opinion its rejection of the claim does not mean that Lloyds  mis-sold  the PBA to Mr 
and Mrs B. 
I suggested they were  at fault
I certainly did not intend to do this, and I apologise for giving Mr and Mrs B this impression. 
To explain a little more.  In correspondence with us, Mr and Mrs B had quoted from some of 
the policy documents that Lloyds had sent them. We hold copies of several  such  documents  
from different times, which vary in content  from year-to-year; and as Mr and Mrs B had held 
the Premier account  for several years, I wanted to make  sure I had chosen the right ones to 
review. This was my only concern. I did not intend to suggest that Mr and Mrs B were  in any 
way at fault. 
Lloyds is responsible, not the insurer
I think this question is probably at the heart  of Mr and Mrs Bs concerns. I understand their 
point to be that they believe  Lloyds  misled them into thinking that the situation  in which  they 
found themselves  during winter 2019 would be covered by the insurance that came with the 
Premier account, and that as the insurer declined their claim,  Lloyds  must  have mis-sold 
them the account. As I mentioned in my provisional  decision, they have been clear that their 
complaint was that the PBA benefits  were mis-sold.
 
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think Lloyds had misled Mr and Mrs B about the 
cover available; in light of their new comments I have again  reviewed  the evidence  that led 
me to that provisional finding, but my opinion remains the same. In this case, I dont think  
Lloyds did anything that was misleading.
The only held a Lloyds  basic account during their switch from another  bank 
I understand that between April and September 2010, Mr and Mrs B held one of Lloyds fee-
free accounts. The adjudicator who assessed their complaint before it came  to me had 
mentioned this in correspondence with them, and I dont think its in dispute. 
When I mentioned the fee-free account in my provisional decision,  I did so after saying that I 
wanted to check  if Lloyds had made any significant mistakes  other than those Mr and Mrs 
B had mentioned directly. As an example,  I said that if Lloyds hadnt let Mr and Mrs B know 
that fee-free accounts  were available, this could have been a significant  mistake and could 
have been mis-selling.  But as Mr and Mrs B had held a fee-free account, Lloyds must have 
told them  about  such accounts.
Ref: DRN01814603Until Mr and Mrs Bs recent correspondence,  I wasnt aware that the fee-free account was 
only for a changeover period from another bank, although I understand they told Lloyds 
about this. However,  this doesnt change my view that Lloyds must have let them know that 
such accounts were available to them.
Mr and Mrs B have  also told us that they completely reject my provisional decision.  They  
believe that it does  no credit to the ombudsman service. I am sorry they feel this way, but 
they are, of course,  perfectly entitled  to their opinion. This final decision is now our last word  
on their case against Lloyds and if they decide  not to accept it, they remain free to take any 
further action  they so wish about the case,  including in the courts.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, and in my provisional decision,  I am not upholding  Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them  a Premier packaged  bank 
account. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01814604Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Lloyds mis-sold  them a packaged  bank account (PBA),
called a Premier account  in 2010.
Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in
return. They  think that Lloyds should refund  them the fees they paid, plus interest.
background
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds  should uphold this complaint.  Mr and Mrs B
didnt agree  with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their
case. So, it has come to me to consider.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach  to help me to decide what to do about  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds have told us or sent us about  the
case and Ive provisionally decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
When Lloyds sold the Premier account to Mr and Mrs B, its potential  benefits included  travel
insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile  phone insurance and home  emergency insurance.
During winter 2019, the heating in Mr and Mrs Bs home partially broke down  and they tried
to claim on the home emergency  insurance. Theyve told us that they spoke to the insurer
who refused to assist, (in effect, rejecting their claim)  and then had several  further 
discussions with Lloyds, but were not satisfied with its response.
Although it seems that it was the rejection of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance claim which led them
to complain, they have been very clear that they have brought this complaint to us because
they believe that Lloyds  mis-sold the account to them by misleading them  about  the scope of
the home emergency cover.  For example,  they have  told us:
Partial heating breakdown  is stated in Lloyds documents.
(Lloyds) claimed heating problems,  including  partial  failure,  were covered. When  a
partial loss of heating occurredit was rejected..).
Heating cover was important to us. Over the years, various (Lloyds) staff have
commented on the advantage  of the heating cover. It (the Premier account ) was
obviously mis-sold.
We would not have accepted this insurance if the documentation wording
had indicated  that partial failure was not covered.
Our complaint  was that the PBA benefits were mis-sold to us.
So, I have taken the crux of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint to be whether  Lloyds misled them  into
thinking that a partial failure of their heating system would  be covered  by the home
emergency cover that came with the account.
Ref: DRN01814605During the time Mr and Mrs B held the Premier account,  Lloyds probably sent them quite a
lot of paperwork about  it, so Im not sure which document they are quoting  from when they
say that Lloyds stated that partial heating breakdowns  would be covered. However,  when
Lloyds sold packaged  bank accounts, it usually sent its customers  a welcome pack  about the
account. The welcome  packs  described the benefits that came  with the account. Lloyds
changed the packs from time-to-time, but I have looked at an example  from the time Lloyds
sold the account to Mr and Mrs B, which is probably  the one they received.
This pack had a specific section about  the home emergency insurance. It said that a home
emergency was a situation  which made a home unsafe or insecure,  would damage (or
cause further damage) to the home or contents, or create unreasonable health and safety
risks. The pack then had a further, more  detailed,  section, called  Perils covered which
listed events which could lead to a successful claim. The list included complete or partial
breakdown of the central heating system. I think its probably this phrase  which Mr and Mrs 
B have quoted.
However, it seems  to me that the intent of the second section was to explain that the policy
would cover a situation  where a partial or complete breakdown of a central heating system
led to a home emergency,  as defined in the first section. I dont think  it meant that a partial
breakdown of a central heating system would be covered unless it caused such an 
emergency. I think the documents explain that its the situation  that results from a partial or
complete breakdown which will determine if the cover applies, not the details of breakdown
itself.
As far as I can tell, Lloyds  documents  always  described the cover as being for home
emergencies, not specifically for heating breakdowns. I dont think Lloyds  misled Mr and Mrs
B about the cover available for partial breakdowns.
In correspondence with us, Mr and Mrs B have also correctly pointed out that while they held
the account,  Lloyds changed the insurer who provided  the home emergency cover. They
have questioned if this meant  that Lloyds reduced the scope  of their insurance without
informing them properly.
Lloyds was allowed to change the insurer, but had to let its customers  know what was
happening and tell them about any significant changes in the potential  benefits  the account
provided.
It seems that Lloyds told Mr and Mrs B that it was changing the insurer. They have  told us
that they checked  the new cover at the time and noted that it still said ..heating systems for
complete or partial  breakdown. Once again, I am not sure which paperwork Mr and Mrs B
are quoting, but I have read up-to-date documents from Lloyds about  the cover provided by
the new insurer, which  I think are most likely to be the ones in question.
The new documents  describe home  emergencies  in a similar, though not identical,  way to
the original  welcome  pack. There is a difference in that the reference to health and safety
has been replaced by a reference  to the home becoming uninhabitable. There  is also a
little more detail in the perils covered section; it now talks about complete  or partial
breakdown of the primary heating  system that results in no hot water and/or no heating . I
think this is reasonably clear  in meaning. And in the context of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and
home emergency cover,  I dont think it is significantly different to the description in the
original welcome  pack. I dont think Lloyds  did anything to mislead Mr and Mrs B about this
change.
Mr and Mrs B have not given us many details  about their conversations with Lloyds
concerning the possible advantages of heating cover. I fully accept that these discussions
took place, but I havent seen sufficiently compelling evidence about  their content or context
Ref: DRN01814606to make me think that Lloyds told Mr and Mrs B anything which was misleading.
Although Mr and Mrs B have been very precise about why they have complained,  in fairness
to them, I have also considered if Lloyds made any other significant mistakes in the way it
sold the account to them. For example, before buying the Premier account, Mr and Mrs B
had held a fee-free account with Lloyds  for several  months,  and if it had denied them the
choice to keep that account, then it may well have been guilty of mis-selling.
While I cant  tell for sure that Lloyds  got everything else right,  Mr and Mrs B seem to have
had a potential need for some of the accounts  other benefits, and Im satisfied  that Lloyds
gave them a choice and told them about the monthly fees. I dont think  there are other
reasons for me to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs mis-sale  complaint.
Returning to the claim Mr and Mrs B made to the insurer, I would like to clarify that in this
decision I have not considered whether the insurer was right or wrong to reject their claim. I
have only considered whether  Lloyds  mis-sold the Premier account to Mr and Mrs B. It is
certainly possible that the situation in which Mr and Mrs B found themselves  when their
heating broke  down may have been a home emergency under the terms of the policy.
But that would need to be considered as an insurance  claim, not as part of a complaint about
mis-sale of a PBA.
I do not know  if Mr and Mrs B have continued to pursue their claim with the insurer, but
nothing in this decision  prevents them from doing this if they so wish. They  may also be able
to bring a separate complaint to us about the insurer, but I cant advise them  about  this or
speculate on what the outcome may be.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs
complaint about Lloyds Bank  PLC.
But I now invite both parties to respond to this provisional decision  by 16 July 2020. I will
then consider any responses I receive before making  a final decision.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0181460