K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Lloyds  in 1984 and were  sold the PPI in connection  
with this mortgage.
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the PPI only covered Mr A. It would have 
provided a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months if Mr A was off work  sick or lost his job.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint about the mis-sale of 
the policy. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr A was eligible for the policy.  I havent seen a copy  of 
the actual policy document  but have  used the information provided by Lloyds and my 
knowledge of other  policies  from around at the time of the sale to help me decide  if Mr A 
would have been eligible. And based on Mr As age and circumstances at the time of the 
sale, Im satisfied Mr A would have been eligible.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs A that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Mr and Mrs A say they werent given a 
choice about taking PPI and they werent  even aware that they had been sold it. Lloyds 
disagree.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. Ordinarily  in such cases  I would look to 
the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what  is more likely to have 
happened. But unfortunately Lloyds no longer have PPI documents from the time of sale.  
However, this is understandable given the length of time since the sale,  so I cant hold this 
against Lloyds.  I also appreciate the difficulties Mr and Mrs A might  have  in providing 
specific detail about the sale. But what all this does mean is that I dont have sufficient  
evidence to be able to conclude that the PPI wasnt presented as optional  or that Mr and   
Mrs A didnt choose to take it out. 
Lloyds dont know how the policy was sold. But to be fair to Mr and Mrs A they are treating it 
as an advised  sale. This holds  them  to a higher bar compared to if they were treating as a 
non-advised sale. It means they would have  had to take adequate steps to ensure the PPI 
Ref: DRN08296762was suitable for Mr and Mrs A. I dont know whether they took all the steps as they should 
have but based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the time, I think it was 
suitable for them.  I say this because:
Mr A doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms common in PPI policies which 
would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy.  For 
example, terms relating to certain types of employment and pre-existing  medical  
conditions. In fact Mr A has told us that he had no pre-existing medical conditions and 
was not self-employed at the time.
Mr A hasnt  told us about any sick pay he would have been entitled  to from his 
employer. However,  even if Mr A was entitled to employee  sick pay, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to this and likely for a longer period of time. It would also 
have paid out if he lost his job. 
Mr and Mrs A could  have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially 
if they no longer  needed or wanted  it.
I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude  that PPI was unaffordable for Mr and 
Mrs A at the time of the sale. 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs A, Lloyds also had to give them  
clear enough information  so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about  the costs, benefits  and main exclusions under the policy.
I dont think Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs A all of the information as they should have. But this 
in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold  as I have  to go on and consider  whether better  
information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better  information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
So I dont  think Lloyds  mis-sold Mr and Mrs A this PPI policy and so dont have to refund all 
the PPI premiums to Mr and Mrs A. But Lloyds will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs A because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds have basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds have to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit  share they got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs A any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs A the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
Ref: DRN08296763pay Mr and Mrs A 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC do not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC do have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any commission  and profit  share 
they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0829676