K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the level of customer service provided  by Equifax Limited after they 
continued to contact him when he no longer required their services. 
background
After noticing  his credit score had lowered when using another  credit reference agency.  Mr H 
applied for an online  subscription to Equifax. During  his application, Mr H was asked to 
provide documents to prove his identity. He was unable to upload  these successfully, and so 
sourced the information he needed  on his credit  score from elsewhere. 
Following this, Equifax  emailed Mr H, asking  him to complete the registration process. Mr H 
contacted Equifax, explaining he no longer needed  their service and asked for his 
subscription to be cancelled. Equifax replied and explained that the subscription was 
inactive, and so there  wasnt  anything to cancel. Mr H responded and again explained he 
didnt require any services  from Equifax, and Equifax sent the same identical  message to 
Mr H a few times, until he made  a formal complaint.
Equifax explained in their final response  letter that there was no active  subscription to 
cancel, and that no further automated emails  would be sent to Mr H. 
Mr H was unhappy with this response. He wanted  an explanation into why his documents 
didnt reach  Equifax. He also wanted some  compensation for the inconvenience caused  
when he had to go and get the information he needed from a different  credit reference 
agency. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Equifax had not done anything wrong. He 
acknowledged there had been some confusion as to whether or not a subscription had been 
completed, and agreed the response  given could have been clearer,  but ultimately  he felt 
Equifax had given  Mr H the correct information.  
Mr H didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifax have let us know that when Mr H initially contacted them,  there were no documents 
attached to his submission. This is why they replied and asked for them  again. When  they 
didnt receive anything,  they sent a reminder and that is when Mr H asked for his application 
to be cancelled. 
Its not clear to me why Mr H was unable to send  his documents  to Equifax successfully, but 
I can understand this must have been frustrating for him. Im glad he was able to get the 
information he needed from elsewhere. 
Having read all of the correspondence between Mr H and Equifax, I think  a more tailored 
response could  have been  sent, rather than the same email  being sent to Mr H multiple 
times. But even so, the information in this email was correct.  A subscription was never  
created, and so there was never anything to cancel. 
Ref: DRN00662152Because of this, I believe Equifax have  provided  the right information  and so I wont be 
asking to make any payment of compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0066215