K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W complains that a car she acquired on a hire purchase agreement through Blue Motor
Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
On 22 August 2018, Mrs W acquired  a used car supplied  through a hire purchase agreement
with BMF.  The car was around 8 years  old and had travelled around 69,000  miles.  The cash
price of the car was £4,200.00. Mrs W paid no deposit and the rest was financed  by the hire
purchase agreement  over a term of 49 months.
Mrs W says that when  she collected the car, there were a number of faults  present. She
reported these  to BMF the day after collection.  Those faults were
 tyres below the legal limit;
 heat plate not attached;
 a cracked bumper; and
 a loose wing mirror.
Following Mrs W reporting  the faults to BMF, the tyres were replaced immediately. The other
faults were repaired  but took slightly longer - around a month.  The car was returned  to Mrs
W on 19 September 2018.
Mrs W says that when  she took delivery of the car following the repairs,  it developed more
faults. So she had an independent inspection carried out. Once  the inspection was
completed, Mrs W reported the list of further faults  to BMF. Those  faults were
 damaged near side front suspension  and top mount shock  absorber;
 an oil leak from the engine;
 broken exhaust hanger;
 damaged jubilee clips on boot; and
 issues  with rear wheel  drum.
BMF didnt agree to pay for the repairs but instead arranged  for a further inspection. That
inspection found
 brake fluid below minimum boiling point;
 boot secured with hose  clip;
 issue  with nearside main beam;
 battery failed electronic test;
 issues  with real wheel  drum;
 tyre inflation bottle  empty;
 oil leak from engine;
 exhaust  mount  secured with hose  clip; and
 rear heat shield loose.
On receipt of the report - BMF concluded that the faults were  wear and tear items.  So it
didnt agree to pay for the repairs.
On 02 October 2018 Mrs W asked to reject  the car. On 17 October BMF sent Mrs W a final
response letter confirming  its position.
Ref: DRN02543382As Mrs W remained unhappy  - she brought a complaint  to our service. Our investigator
looked into the complaint and thought it should  be upheld. He found based on the evidence
hed seen that at least  four of the faults were  present or developing at the point of sale.  He
suggested BMF arrange for the repairs to be completed at no cost to Mrs W.
BMF initially  agreed to pay for the repairs to the oil leak and the wheel drum  after asking
Mrs W to obtain  a quote for the repair work - but this was later withdrawn. So the complaints
been passed to me to issue a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 04 November 2020 where  I said I intended to uphold  this 
complaint. This what I said.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMF supplied Mrs W with the car under a hire purchase agreement it had with her. Under
this type of agreement, BMF is the supplier of the goods and is responsible  for any
complaints about  its quality. In deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into
consideration - amongst  other things - the relevant law and in particular the Consumer
Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The relevant  legislation, namely the CRA, implied  a term into the contract that the car was of
satisfactory quality. Whats satisfactory  is measured by what a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and other
relevant circumstances - which I think would  include  things like the age and mileage of the
car.
The car was around  eight  years old and had done around 69,000 miles. And I think  a
reasonable person might  expect there to be some  wear  and tear on a car of that age and
mileage. Having said that, I wouldnt  expect  a car of this age and mileage to have so many
faults close to and around the point of sale.
Mrs W reported a number  of faults shortly  after purchasing the car. Although BMF agreed to
repair the these  faults - I find this started to highlight that the car was not of satisfactory
quality when sold.
Shortly after the car being returned,  Mrs W highlighted several  further faults and due to the
previous issues, decided to get an inspection done.  Mrs W said the inspection found several
faults with the car and Mrs W says she again  reported these  to BMF. Instead of repairing the
faults as they did with the first issues found, it decided to complete its own inspection  of the
car. BMF were  within their rights to do this, but I find it only confirmed what Mrs W had
reported - that the car had a several  issues.
Its clear the faults that were highlighted after the first set of repairs  were not all due to wear
and tear. Parts of the car like an exhaust secured with the incorrect fitting  cannot  be put
down to use - but rather a poor previous repair. The report  also highlighted parts of the car
missing, below the minimum standard or poorly  repaired.
At least  some of these  issues appear to me to be a combination  of poor repair and poor
maintenance of the car - rather than wear and tear. Namely  the boot clip attached with the
incorrect fitting, an oil leak and the heat plate not being attached  correctly.  Not only do I find
these faults of un satisfactory quality when it was sold, they also make the car unsafe.
Ref: DRN02543383I do find that some of the faults should be put down to wear and tear and would be things
expected to be replaced on a car of this age. The brake fluid and battery issues are both
issues that will wear over a number of miles. Id also expect the tyre inflation bottle to have
been used at some point  over the lifetime  of the car.
After the investigators  view BMF did agree to provisionally pay for some  of the repairs based
on Mrs W getting quotes on cost.  This was later withdrawn when BMF said that the quotes
were for issues outside that of the investigators  view. Having read the view and the
subsequent conversations  between  the investigator and the business, I cant  agree this was
the case.
BMF also highlighted  that the inspection Mrs W arranged had a red and amber  rating on
each fault. It said that as some faults  were  listed as amber, they dont need replacing. This
may well be the case that if these  items  were  not replaced or fixed  they may last some  time
longer - but the report  also states that they need to be monitored for safety reasons. This is
something I find unreasonable given Mrs W has just purchased the car and given the
number of other faults shes had to deal with.
Overall, Im satisfied that the car was not of satisfactory quality when purchased  and BMF
should meet  the cost of putting this right. Having checked with Mrs W, she has explained
that she would like the car repaired  at this point rather than the option of rejecting it. Mrs W
has also been without  the use of her car for around  a month and has also has the
inconvenience of having to take it in for repairs and obtain quotations for the rest of the
repairs. I find it fair in these circumstances to return one months payment and pay £150  for
the trouble and upset caused.
BMF responded to my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mrs W asked  that any repairs be carried out at the garage of her choice  from where she 
had previously obtained quotes. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As BMF provided no further submissions, I find no reason to depart from my original decision 
to uphold this complaint.   
Having considered the request from Mrs W and given she has already obtained quotes for a 
number of the repairs, I dont find any reason why she shouldnt  be allowed to use the 
garage of her choice.  BMF also previously agreed to Mrs W obtaining quotes from her own 
garage. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Blue Motor
Finance Ltd to
Meet the repair costs  for
Ref: DRN02543384the oil leak
the exhaust mount
the rear heat shield
the boot clip
It should also
 pay Mrs W £60 for the rear wheel drum  repair already completed
 pay Mrs W £150 for the trouble and upset  caused
 return  one months payment of £118.96
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0254338