K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Mr and Mrs F have complained about the consequential costs  and losses they 
have incurred, resulting from the Bank  of Scotland plcs (BOS) error in relation to a foreign 
currency transfer in 2015. The transfer was to enable them to start building  a property 
abroad. They also say they have incurred costs as a result of BOS  losing  documents.
background
Mr and Mrs F have  made previous complaints about this issue.  The first complaint arose 
from losses Mr and Mrs F said they incurred due to delays by BOS in making a foreign 
currency transfer for them.  A final decision was issued in 2016  upholding their complaint. 
They were  awarded  compensation amounting to approximately  €50,000. 
A second complaint about consequential losses flowing  from the issues raised  in the first 
complaint was made by Mr and Mrs F. This was investigated by this service in 2017.  And as 
a result of our investigation, BOS made an offer to Mr and Mrs F in the sum of €14,000 for 
consequential losses resulting from delays primarily in relation to the building site being shut 
down for four months from September 2015. They also paid a further £500 for the upset and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs F had been  caused.  
Mr and Mrs F made a third complaint in late 2017.  They raised concerns about the costs 
incurred due to BOS destroying  valuable documents. And they claimed further  costs  
following delays to their building project. In summary  they looked to be compensated for:
Lawyers fees relating to their tax affairs - €1,500.
The cost of renewing the building licence and associated architect costs - €20,000.
Compensation for the loss and destruction of original documentation - €5,000.
Compensation for the distress  and inconvenience relating  to their tax problems  - 
€5,000
Compensation for distress and inconvenience  relating to 24 months  of issues 
following the initial error by BOS  - £10,000.
Unnecessary and additional expenditure for accommodation as they were unable  to 
move into the new property until it was complete - £4,000
Mr and Mrs Fs concerns were looked  into by one of our investigators.  In summary:
He was satisfied  lawyers fees had been incurred as a direct result of the destruction 
of the original papers. So, he upheld that part of their complaint.  
He didnt think the further  delays  were entirely as a direct result  of the original issue.
The destruction of the original documents had been covered in the distress and 
inconvenience payment recommended in 2017.  
He didnt think the further  accommodation costs were as a direct  result of the original 
banking issue.
The second envelope of papers were sent to Mr and Mrs Fs home rather than their 
solicitors as requested.  Certified copies were  available from BOS. This aspect of the 
complaint was upheld.
He was of the view that €1,500  lawyers  fees should be paid to Mr and Mrs F 
together with £100 for the inconvenience  caused  by the loss of the second envelope.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  with the investigators  view.  They  said that they had also incurred  
taxi charges amounting to €80. The investigator agreed that this additional payment should  
Ref: DRN04868232be made but wasnt persuaded to change  his mind regarding the answer he had given to 
their complaint.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree, so the case has been  passed to me for review.  Having reviewed  
the papers I asked  the investigator  to tell Mr and Mrs F and BOS  that I thought interest at the 
rate of 8% simple a year should be paid on the lawyers  fees that they had incurred. And that 
I also thought  that BOS  should pay £500  to compensate Mr and Mrs F for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them by the loss of the original documents.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Ive summarised above the complaint points that Mr and Mrs F have raised  with BOS and 
this service. BOS had questioned whether the issues  Mr and Mrs F have raised in this 
complaint, should  be investigated. It says they have already had two complaints considered 
by this service resulting  from the currency transfer back in 2015, for which they have 
accepted compensation on a full and final settlement  basis. 
Ive looked carefully  at everything Ive been  provided with, including  the issues  addressed  in 
the previous two complaints. Im satisfied we can look into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I say 
this because the consequential losses Mr and Mrs F are claiming  compensation for, werent 
considered in the first two complaints. And the adjudicator who investigated  their last 
complaint made it very clear what complaint points he was considering  and those that he 
wasnt. And I accept Mr and Mrs F wouldnt necessarily have known the full extent of their 
costs and expenses  at the time those complaints were raised. BOS subsequently said that it 
was prepared to review their claim.
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs F have had a very difficult  time over the last few years  as a 
result of the problems theyve had in completing  the building work on their house. But the 
crux of the issue that I have to decide, is whether the consequential losses they are claiming  
for in this complaint; are a direct result of the errors BOS made back  in 2015.
In respect of the building  delays Mr and Mrs F have provided a declaration from their 
architect dated November  2017. This says the project should and could have been 
completed within the time of the building  license. The architect  says it wasnt, because  of 
problems with BOS  which meant  they were unable to continue with the project and it closed 
down for several  months. The project  hadnt been  completed  in the two years that had 
passed. And because  of further problems with BOS all work had ceased  again, and the plot 
made secure. 
Mr and Mrs F also said the initial  four-month  delay  had a knock-on  effect  which resulted in 
bookings of tradesmen having  to be cancelled or rescheduled. And once tradesmen  were 
cancelled it was difficult to get them back again.  They also said that although there were 
plenty of tradesmen on the island  there  were  just a few that were excellent. They had to stop 
work in April 2017 as their funds had become depleted by the costs  of having to hire different 
tradesmen and getting different estimates.
Mr and Mrs F have  also provided a letter from their builder. He says that there were 
problems purchasing suitable soil which led to delays of several  months. He went  on to say 
Ref: DRN04868233that work  stopped again in April 2017  because of further problems which he understood 
were as a result of their dealings with BOS.  He also said that apart from the foundations, the 
project was straightforward and could easily have been finished within the period of the 
building license.
The upset and expenses  caused by the initial four-month delay at the start of the building 
project has already  been adjudicated on by this service.  As Ive summarised above, Mr and 
Mrs F have  provided evidence in support of their arguments that they incurred further  
consequential losses as a result of that delay. 
The architects summary says the project  should  and could have been completed  within  the 
period of the building  license. So, with that starting point in mind, the difficulty  I have is that 
although it goes  on to say it was due to problems caused by BOS; it doesnt  explain what 
those problems were  and how they specifically  affected the projects building schedule.  The 
building license was for a period of two years and its not clear from this summary, what  
specific issues caused the project to run past that. 
Similarly, the letter provided by Mr and Mrs Fs builder says the building  work had to stop in 
April 2017. But this appears to be on the basis of what Mr and Mrs F had told them about 
their problems with BOS. And there  is no information about how those problems specifically 
affected the project and the build  timeframe.  
Mr and Mrs F have  explained the initial delay had a knock-on effect which  resulted in 
tradesmen having to be cancelled or rescheduled. But they have acknowledged that there 
were other tradesmen on the island that could have been used. And whilst I accept Mr and 
Mrs F might have  preferred  to use tradesmen they wanted to instruct and that not all of the 
available tradesmen  would necessarily have been  appropriate for their building project; I 
havent seen enough evidence that there  werent  tradesmen of an appropriate  standard they 
could instruct. I think its likely there  were  tradesmen  they could have instructed to progress 
the building  project,  but they chose  not to do so. 
Also, with a building project such as this, I would expect there would be some form of 
schedule of building works setting out what was to be done on the project and when. No 
such schedule has been provided. As a result, its difficult  for me to understand the impact of 
the initial delay  on the project as a whole.
Whilst I understand and accept there  have been  delays to the building works caused by the 
initial four-month  delay; for the reasons Ive set out above, I simply dont have enough 
evidence to safely conclude that the knock on effect of the initial delay  resulted  in the 
building work  not being  completed within the period of the building license. So, Im not going 
to award Mr and Mrs F the compensation they are seeking in relation  to the additional  
delays, renewing  the building  license  and associated  architect fees or for the expenditure on 
alternative accommodation.
Mr and Mrs F sent BOS original documents so that it could consider their claim. Its accepted 
by BOS that although the documents were sent back to Mr and Mrs F, they werent able to 
be delivered and were returned to BOS. It hasnt been able to locate them since  they were 
returned. Mr and Mrs F had to replace those original documents. This cost them €1,500  as 
they had to use a Spanish lawyer to carry out this work and deal with their tax affairs.  
Mr and Mrs F have  provided a receipted  invoice in respect of the legal fees they incurred. In 
order to bring the matter  to a close, BOS in addition to reimbursing Mr and Mrs F the €1,500  
they paid in respect of the legal  fees,  said they would  also pay interest  on that amount from 
Ref: DRN048682342 October 2017. 
Im satisfied that the receipted invoice provided  by Mr and Mrs F shows that they have paid 
the invoice rendered by their Spanish lawyer. And Im also persuaded from everything  Ive 
seen that this expenditure was incurred  as a result of BOS losing the original documents,  
they sent to it. And having incurred  that expenditure I think  its appropriate that BOS  should 
pay interest on that amount. 
In his assessment  the investigator said that a payment  in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs F incurred  as a result  of the loss of the original documents, had 
been made by BOS  in settlement of the second  complaint. 
I dont agree that it was. This is because the adjudicator said in his assessment:
..the complaint regarding the destruction  of documents hasn't yet been  raised  with Halifax 
or ourselves. I confirmed  with Mr and Mrs F on 18 January 2017, these costs wouldn't be 
considered as part of this case.
So, Im satisfied from everything Ive seen  that BOS hasnt compensated Mr and Mrs F for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the loss of the original documents. And it seems 
to me that the loss of those documents had a considerable  impact  on them. I say this 
because the loss of the documents resulted in them having to instruct  lawyers  to deal with 
their tax affairs. This led to them incurring additional  unexpected expenditure at a time when 
they were already experiencing some considerable inconvenience as a result of the initial  
delays. And it appears that they faced  a potential fine from the Spanish tax authorities.  
Fortunately, no fine was incurred by Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F have  asked  for €5,000 compensation for the loss of the original 
documentation. But it seems to me that they are seeking a punitive award against BOS  for 
losing the documents. I dont have the authority to make such an award. Having taken into 
account the impact  on Mr and Mrs F Ive outlined above, I think  an award of £500 is 
appropriate to compensate Mr and Mrs F for the distress and inconvenience they suffered as 
a result of the documents being lost. And their legal fees which  Ive said should be paid, are 
in addition to this. 
Other original documents  provided by Mr and Mrs F to BOS in respect of their claim were 
also lost by it. But it had certified copies it could  provide them with. BOS  also offered £100 to 
Mr and Mrs F in relation to the loss of those documents and it agreed  €80 for the taxi costs 
incurred in respect of posting the documents. Having considered  the impact on them  as a 
result of the loss of these documents and having  taken  into account that certified copies can 
be provided by BOS, Im satisfied that these amounts are fair and reasonable to compensate  
Mr and Mrs F for the inconvenience and upset caused to them.  
putting things right
To put things right BOS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs F €1,500 in respect of the lawyers fee, together  with interest at the 
rate of 8% simple a year from 2 October  2017  to the date of my decision.
Pay Mr and Mrs F £500 for the trouble  and upset incurred  as a result of the 
destruction of their original documents.
Ref: DRN04868235Pay Mr and Mrs F a total of £100 and €80 in respect of the loss of the second lot of 
documents and the associated costs of posting  those documents  to BOS.  
Mr and Mrs F have  asked that any compensation awarded should be paid in euros 
into their bank account in Tenerife. So, in relation to the sterling awards, BOS needs 
to ensure that if confirmation of acceptance  of my decision  is received from Mr and 
Mrs F, it needs  to transfer the euro equivalent into Mr and Mrs Fs bank account  as at 
the date of transfer. So, for example if as at the date of transfer the exchange  rate 
was €1.16 to the pound,  €580  would be transferred for an equivalent £500 payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold in part Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc. On receipt of acceptance of my decision by Mr and Mrs F,  
Bank of Scotland plc should pay them the compensation Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0486823