K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
When applying for his credit card online, Mr B wouldve had to select  from a yes or no 
option to indicate if he wanted PPI. And he couldnt proceed  with his application until 
hed done this. So I think Barclays made  it clear  that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI 
and he chose to take it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ref: DRN02018382But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0201838