K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store card. 
The store card was originally taken out in a department store,  but FICL has taken 
responsibility for the sale of PPI, and for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Miss M took out in 1998.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint  because  I dont think FICL gave Miss M clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because Miss M has a pre-existing medical 
condition which wouldnt have been covered by the policy. So she couldnt claim on the 
policy for everything she expected to be able to. And I dont think  that Miss M wouldnt have 
wanted the policy if FICL had given her enough  information about the restrictions on the PPI. 
So, I think Miss M has lost out because  of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it has said about Miss Ms condition 
being controllable by medication and that it might not affect her day to day life. But I dont 
think this matters  Miss Ms condition may not have always been able to be controlled by 
medication  and it may have also had an impact on her day to day life. So I still think  I 
should uphold  the complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Miss M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss M would  have  owed  when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN08149722B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss M would have owed each month  without PPI  
Miss M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Miss M paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point 
when Miss M wouldve owed FICL something  on her store  card. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss M what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0814972