K821x#15complaint
Miss T says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Miss T from April 2010 
onwards. Miss Ts last loan was provided  in January 2011. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ts complaint and thought  that loan three  shouldnt  
have been given to her. 
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicators view. As the parties havent been  able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Miss T could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN08332952As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan three would more likely than not 
have shown that:
the repayment required for this loan took up a significant proportion  of Miss Ts 
monthly income. In these  circumstances,  there was a significant risk that Miss T 
wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. I dont think that Quick  Quid could reasonably have believed  that Miss T 
would be able to make the payment  over two pay periods bearing in mind shed failed 
to repay  a substantially lower  amount  for loans one, under a similar  arrangement,  
without her needing to borrow  a larger amount on the day she settled this loan.
I think that Miss T lost out because she paid interest  and charges on a loan Quick  Quid  
shouldnt have provided her with. So Im partially  upholding  Miss Ts complaint and Quick 
Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss T paid on loan three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all adverse  information recorded  on Miss Ts credit  file as a result of loan 
three.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ts complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0833295