K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the way Lloyds Bank plc handled a dispute after she made a card
payment as a deposit for a tenancy agreement.
background
Miss Ms daughter, Mrs S, and her grandson,  Mr S were looking for accommodation through  
an estate agent,  which Ill call O. Having  found  a property they thought was suitable,  Mrs S 
and Mr S signed an agreement with O. That agreement recorded that Mrs S and Mr S had 
paid a holding  fee and a set up fee of £600 in total and that the landlord  was prepared to let 
the property to them, subject to checks and references.
In fact Miss M (not Mrs S or Mr S) had paid the £600  using her Lloyds debit card. 
The agreement also said that tenant checks were carried  out through  an online application 
form. It said that Mrs S and Mr S would be receiving an email  with a link to the form. All 
forms were to be completed within 24 hours of receipt of the email.  The agreement  went on 
to say that the set up fee and holding fee would be forfeited  if Mrs S and Mr S failed to 
provide the information requested. They would be returned in the event of the landlord 
defaulting. 
Miss M says that O contacted Mrs S two days later (a Monday)  to say that the landlord had 
decided to take a different tenant. O said however  that Mrs S and Mr S hadnt provided the 
information needed to check references, and so it wouldnt  return the fees.  
Miss M complained to Lloyds, which initially agreed to refund the payment of £600.  The bank 
subsequently said, however, that O had successfully challenged that decision, and it re-
debited Miss Ms account.
Lloyds explained  that it had raised a dispute  through the chargeback  scheme  a means of 
resolving certain payment  disputes run through the relevant card scheme (in this case, Visa). 
That hadnt  been successful, and Lloyds  decided not to pursue that any further.  Mrs M 
complained that Lloyds  should have done  more. She felt strongly that O had been  in the 
wrong; Mrs S and Mr S hadnt, she said, been  provided with the necessary forms so that 
references could  be completed. She referred  the case to this service,  and one of our 
investigators considered  it.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds  should refund the payment, with interest, and pay Miss 
M a further  £100  in recognition of the trouble to which shed been put. His reasoning, in 
summary, was that he didnt think O had kept to the terms of its agreement. Since the 
agreement was signed on a Saturday, he didnt think it likely that the necessary forms had 
been provided by the time the tenancy was offered to someone else on the Monday. He 
concluded that Lloyds should  have pursued the chargeback further and, had it done so, it 
would have been successful. It was, by that time, too late for Lloyds to take matters up again 
with Visa.
Lloyds didnt accept  the investigators  finding and asked that an ombudsman review  them.  I 
did that and, because I thought it likely  that I would reach a different conclusion from that 
reached by the investigator, I issued  a provisional  decision. In summary, I said:  
Ref: DRN05967722It was not for me to determine the outcome  of any dispute that Miss M (or Mrs S or Mr 
S) might have with O. 
My primary role was to determine  the outcome of Miss Ms dispute  with Lloyds, not her 
dispute with O. It wasnt for me to decide  whether  O had been entitled  to refuse to 
refund the fees shed paid on behalf  of her daughter and grandson. 
Much of the evidence  about  what had happened was unwritten, in that it consisted of 
reports of telephone conversations between Mrs M and O. That wasnt  evidence  which  
the chargeback  process  could consider. 
The chargeback process  was intended  primarily to resolve  disputes  about payments. 
But there  was no real dispute here about the payment Miss M made; rather, the dispute  
was whether O should return it. 
I didnt think it was unreasonable  of Lloyds to decide not to pursue the chargeback 
claim any further.  It was unlikely that doing so would have resulted in a refund,  because 
Miss Ms payment had been  correctly  processed. 
In conclusion, I didnt  believe  that it would be fair to require Lloyds to refund the payment or 
to do anything further to resolve Miss Ms complaint.  Lloyds indicated that it had nothing 
further to add. Miss M didnt respond  to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Since neither Miss M nor the bank has 
added anything in response to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.  
I would however repeat the comments I made in my provisional decision about  any claim 
Miss M or her family  might have against O. My findings here dont  mean either that theres  
no claim against O, or that there  is. I havent  made  any findings on that point, and have no 
power to do so. However, our consideration of Miss Ms complaint about Lloyds wont affect  
any rights  she  or indeed  Mrs S or Mr S  might have to take steps to recover  payment from 
O. My findings here concern only Miss Ms complaint about Lloyds.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss M to accept  or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Ref: DRN05967723 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0596772