K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance  
(PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs A took out an unsecured personal loan with Nationwide in 2003 and bought a 
PPI policy  at the same time. They paid a monthly amount for the policy which  wouldve given 
a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months  if Mr A lost his job and for up to 24 months if he was 
off work because of sickness or an accident.
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt know the PPI was optional and their work benefits meant they 
didnt need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs As complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs A 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide needed  to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs A they had a choice about PPI and get 
their agreement to it. Although Mr and Mrs A say the PPI was sold in a meeting, Nationwide  
has given us information that shows it was sold over the phone. But it doesnt  have a 
recording of the call  which  I dont think is surprising given how long ago the sale was. It 
has, though, referred us to a telephone  call script it says its representatives used at the time. 
And this shows Nationwide wouldve asked a customer to choose whether  or not they 
wanted PPI, with the policy being  added only if the customer agreed.
Ive also looked  at the loan agreement Mr and Mrs A signed afterwards. This clearly  sets out 
the monthly premium  for the policy, which  is described as optional.  So, looking at everything 
Ive got, I think its likely that, at the time,  Nationwide made it clear to Mr and Mrs A they had 
a choice about PPI and they agreed  to it.
Mr and Mrs A say Nationwide recommended the PPI to them. Nationwide  says it didnt.  Ive 
seen nothing to make me think  its likely  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs A a tailored 
recommendation  based on a detailed analysis of their particular  circumstances and needs 
 to buy the cover. That means Nationwide  didnt need to make sure it was right for them in 
their circumstances. But it did need  to give Mr and Mrs A enough information about the PPI 
for them to be able to make that decision themselves in an informed way.
From what  Ive seen, I think its unlikely Nationwide made everything as clear to                   
Mr and Mrs A as it shouldve done.  But also from what Ive seen, I dont think  Mr and Mrs A 
were worse  off because of any failings  with the sale. I say this because,  from what they say 
of their circumstances  at the time and the policy details Ive got:
Ref: DRN01454122Mr A (the person covered by the policy) was eligible  for it and doesnt  seem to have 
been affected by any of its main restrictions or exclusions. So I dont  think  hed have 
been stopped from claiming  the full policy  benefit  if hed needed to.
Mr A says hed have got six months  sick pay if he couldnt  work due to ill health and 
Mrs A wouldve  got the same.  But the PPI wouldve  paid accident  and sickness 
benefit to Mr A for up to two years  if he was off work  sick. And it wouldve paid out for 
a year if he lost his job. So I think the PPI gave Mr and Mrs A useful additional  
protection.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr and Mrs A couldnt  afford  the policy, 
which they couldve cancelled at any time.  Ive noted Mr and Mrs A continued to be 
charge premiums for the PPI after they repaid the loan early but I can also see 
Nationwide subsequently  refunded them those premiums.
So, from the information I have, I dont think Mr and Mrs A have lost out because  of anything 
Nationwide did wrong and therefore it doesnt need  to do anything  to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0145412