K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) will not reimburse him for an independent 
report he paid for to evidence a claim for his damaged  garden  wall.
background
Mr C started to notice that his garden wall was leaning and had developed cracks in it. 
Mr C asked a builder  to assess the damage  who stated that they thought the damage was 
caused by subsidence causing  structural damage.
Mr C called UKI to ask about  making  a claim  on his buildings insurance policy to repair the 
garden wall. UKI asked Mr C to provide a cause of damage report.
Mr C paid a structural engineer to write a report on the subsidence  and damage  to his 
garden wall which he sent to UKI. 
UKI said that the report was unclear whether the damage had affected the main house  so 
sent out its own loss adjuster. The loss adjuster found that the damage was only affecting  
the garden wall and not the house.  UKI said that Mr Cs policy  only covered subsidence or 
heave to a garden wall if his home  was also damaged at the same time by the same cause. 
So, UKI declined  Mr Cs claim on that exclusion.  
Mr C complained to UKI saying that he was led to believe that his claim would have been 
covered during the initial phone call to them. Also, during the phone  call he was told he 
would need to obtain his own report first. So, Mr C felt that UKI should  reimburse  him for the 
report he had paid for.
In response, UKI said that Mr Cs policy stated that he must provide any evidence  to make 
his claim at his own expense. And, that the claims handler hadnt told Mr C to pay for a 
report, but to get his builder to provide  a cause of damage report. UKI said that they did not 
have enough information and so to be fair to Mr C they sent a loss adjuster  to assess the 
damage. UKI felt they had done nothing wrong and so didnt uphold  the compliant. 
Mr C was unhappy with UKIs response  and so brought  his complaint to us. I sent Mr C and 
UKI my provisional decision  on 30 January 2020.  I explained that I thought that although UKI 
could have been clearer in their call with Mr C, but it hadnt asked Mr C for a structural  
engineers report  which was likely to be a cost Mr C would have incurred anyway. Ive copied  
my findings  from my provisional decision below.  
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully  to the call between Mr C and UKI. Its clear from the outset that Mr C is 
enquiring if the damage to his garden  wall would be covered by his policy.  The call handler 
said early in the conversation that he was unable to check if there is cover on a policy for a 
specific claim. However, the call handler  does later use the words looking at the policy 
Ref: DRN04544382cover which  would suggest that he has access to the policy documents.  So, I can see why 
Mr C would think that the call handler could have  advised him not to make  a claim if there 
was an obvious  exclusion in his policy. 
Mr C said his call was due to a subsidence  issue. The call handler told Mr C that they have  a 
specific team to deal with subsidence and started to ask for Mr Cs availability for a call from 
them. However, Mr C soon clarifies  that the issue was with his garden wall and not the main 
house. With this information the call handler said that it was something he could deal with. 
Although Mr C feels that this was confirmation  that UKI would cover  his claim, I think it is 
quite clear in the call this is simply the call handler saying his department could set up the 
claim. 
The call handler explained  that a cause  of damage  report was required so that they could 
confirm the exact  cause  of the issue. He said they were unable  to confirm if the damage was 
covered until they knew exactly  what had caused it, because there were limitations to the 
policy cover.  The call handler informed Mr C that they would initially  look at the claim as an 
accidental damage  claim.
The call handler told Mr C that if he was to claim under accidental  damage then gradual 
damage was unlikely to be covered as there was a clause in the policy for gradual damage.  
So UKI would need some clarification over the cause of the damage in order  to consider the 
claim further and decide if the damage was covered  by the policy. 
Mr C informed UKI that a builder had been to assess  the damage  and had said the cause of 
the damage was subsidence. UKI asked  if this builder could put the cause in writing. 
Mr C told UKI that the builder was no longer in contact, but Mr C suggested he could  get an 
independent person to do an assessment. The call handler agreed to this course of action.
When considering  if UKI gave clear information to Mr C in the call, I think  that UKI could 
have been clearer.  Ill explain  why.
I think its likely, as the call handler had referred  back to the policy in other areas, that he 
knew that a subsidence claim could not be made in this case   as the main house  had not 
been damaged.  But the call handler  doesnt clearly  say this to Mr C, instead he informs him 
that the claim would  be set up as an accidental damage claim. 
Whilst I think that UKI were  right in not deciding the claim  on that call, I think  they should 
have been clear that the policy wouldnt cover subsidence unless the house  was also 
damaged by the same cause. The call handler does  explain quite clearly that if a claim was 
made under accidental  damage,  as the damage was caused  gradually, then Mr Cs policy 
was unlikely to cover it. So, I think UKI should  have made it clear that the purpose of the 
cause of damage report was simply to say whether the damage was caused  by an insured 
event covered by the policy. 
I have considered if UKIs lack of clarity in the initial call is what led Mr C to pay for this 
report.
UKIs call handler was quite clear  what was required was a cause of damage report from a 
builder or similar as there were  limitations on the policy.  He didnt ask for a structural 
engineers report  which is quite different and likely to cost considerably more. I think  that 
there were other options available to Mr C which may have varied in expense. As UKI had 
already informed Mr C that there were exclusions and limitations in his policy  which may 
Ref: DRN04544383apply, I wouldnt have  expected Mr C to pay out for a structural  engineers  report  if it was just 
for UKI to assess whether  his claim was valid or not. 
Mr C had already asked a builder  to assess the damage to his wall. But the builder had told 
Mr C that the issue was structural and so he was unable to help. I think its therefore likely 
that the next course of action for Mr C would have been to obtain  a structural engineers  
report in order to assess how the wall could be repaired. So, even if UKIs call handler was 
unclear, I dont think its what UKI asked for and I think  this was an expense which Mr C was 
likely to incur anyway.   
I know that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr C but overall, I dont think that UKI have 
done anything  significantly  wrong  which has led to any financial loss.
the response to my provisional  decision
UKI didnt  have any further comments for me to consider.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision,  saying  that he had spoken  to several builders. 
They advised him that they would be unable to speculate on a cause of damage without 
knocking down  the wall, so they wouldnt be able to create a report  until the wall was 
demolished. Mr C feels the surveyors report was of no benefit to him and he would not have 
paid for one if UKI had advised  him in the initial call that his policy would not cover the claim.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings and Mr Cs further comments.
I appreciate that Mr C feels that the surveyors report was the only way he could evidence  
the cause of the damage, as he says that all of the builders hes spoken to wouldnt 
speculate on the cause of damage to his wall. But his first builder did comment  on the cause 
and they were able to say that they thought the cause of the damage  was structural.
 
As I have said in my provisional decision,  the call handler asked if there is any way that the 
original builders comments  could  be put in writing.  And later in the call, the call handler 
again asked for the builder to write a few lines  and email it to UKI, as they would need 
something in writing in order to consider  if the wall was covered under Mr Cs policy. 
So, they didnt  suggest that Mr C needed  to pay for a structural engineers report which  is 
substantially different to a few lines from the builder  and very likely to cost Mr C more.  Its in 
Mr Cs policy  that he may be asked to evidence the claim  at his own expense which I dont 
find unusual or unreasonable. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to ask for Mr Cs 
original builder to put what  he had already  said in writing.  
Mr C then made the decision to pay for a structural engineers report.  I accept that Mr C may 
not have paid for a structural engineers report if he hadnt contacted UKI, as he didnt end 
up using it. But I still dont  think  UKI asked for or suggested that Mr C was required to pay for 
a structural engineers report when what they required was a much more  basic indication  of 
the cause of the damage.
Ref: DRN04544384I can appreciate that Mr C feels that UKI should have advised him in his initial call that his 
policy didnt cover his claim. But UKI were unwilling to reject Mr Cs claim in the initial  call. 
UKI said this was because the cause of the damage still wasnt  clear  to them, and it said it 
wouldnt be fair to Mr C to reject the claim without further investigation. So UKI sent out a 
loss adjustor, who ultimately  made  the decision that the claim was excluded from Mr Cs 
policy. I dont find it unreasonable that UKI wanted  to be certain the damage was excluded  
before rejecting Mr Cs claim. I say this because the consequences of the wall falling down 
could have been severe, so UKI wanted  to ensure they made  the correct  decision on the 
claim. 
For all these reasons, and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  findings, Im not persuaded 
to change my mind.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0454438