K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001, Ms B applied for a credit card through the post. At the same time she was sold a 
PPI policy. This policy protected her card repayments if she wasnt  able to work because  of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.  It would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance 
on her account for a period  of up to twelve months. The policy  also gave her life cover.
Our adjudicator thought Tesco had mis-sold the policy to Ms B. Tesco  didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case. Having done so, Im upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Tesco has provided  a copy of the postal  card application form which Ms B completed and 
signed. Theres a section on this form headed  Cardholder Payment Protection. In this 
section is written:
 Cardholder Payment  Protection  is designed to protect your Tesco  credit card payments in 
the event of death, accident, sickness or involuntary  unemployment (including redundancy). 
We strongly recommend  you take out this cover. For cover just tick this box.
Ms B appears to have ticked the box provided  for this purpose. But as far as I can see, 
theres nothing on the form that would have given her an understanding of the costs  and 
benefits of this cover, or of the important  terms and conditions which applied to it. Tesco 
says that policy summary information was included in the application booklet which Ms B 
would have had when she applied for her card. But the application form doesnt mention this 
additional information about  the PPI, or suggest that this should be read before  making  a 
decision about whether or not to take the cover offered.
But even if Ms B had read the additional  information about the PPI Tesco says was available 
to her, I still dont think its likely that she would have gained  a full understanding of the 
policys costs and benefits. For example, I dont think she would have necessarily 
appreciated that PPI premiums would be added  to her credit card balance and could attract  
interest, or that she would have had to carry on paying premiums during a claim, which  
would reduce the policys benefit to her in real terms.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Tesco gave Ms B enough information - or 
presented the information it did give her in a prominent enough way - for her to make a fully 
informed decision about taking the PPI policy. And I think this would have mattered to Ms B 
because, from what  I know of her circumstances  at the time,  I dont think she had much  
need of the cover the PPI gave her.
Ref: DRN00445552Ms B says that, at the time of the sale, she was eligible for sick pay from her employer of six 
months at full salary  and six months  at half salary. She also says that she had readily 
accessible savings held in an everyday savings account of between £3,000 and £5,000. 
And she says shed been saving a regular amount of £50 into an ISA account since 
May 2000. Ms B also says that her husband would have provided her with financial support 
in need.
Unfortunately, Ms B says she doesnt  have any independent evidence of her savings before 
2007. And she has confirmed she cant be more specific  about  the precise amount of money 
held in her everyday savings account in August  2001. But I think  that this is understandable 
given that its over eighteen  years since this sale took place. On balance,  I think its more  
likely than not that she did have at least £3,750 of available savings at this time.  
Ive also noted  that, at the time of the sale,  Ms B was in what  appears to have  been  a 
relatively secure role for which she was fully qualified. And she had been  working  for her 
public sector employer  for some seven years. So I dont think  that she would have thought 
she was likely to be made redundant, or that her redundancy pay wouldnt have been  
sufficient to support  her whilst she looked  for a new job even if she had been.
So from what I understand to have been  Ms Bs circumstances at the time of this sale, it 
seems likely that she could have got by without needing the cover provided  for a significant 
length of time. And I dont think she would have  still wanted to take PPI if shed more fully 
understood the costs and benefits of the policy Tesco  offered her. I think she would have 
thought her other means  to have been enough  to cover her if she hadnt been  able to work.
So I think that Ms B has lost out because Tesco didnt give her good enough information 
about the PPI policy  when  it sold it to her.
Ive thought carefully about all the points  Tesco  has made in responding to our adjudicators  
view. But none  of these have changed my mind  about  upholding this mis-sale complaint.
putting things right
Tesco should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.Tesco should find out how much Ms B would owe on her credit  card if the policy  hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Ms B owes  and what she would 
have owed.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Tesco works out what Ms B would have owed each month  without PPI  Ms B 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, Tesco should also pay simple  interest  on 
Ref: DRN00445553the extra Ms B paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms B 
would have owed  Tesco something on her credit  card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.If Tesco has already  paid Ms B compensation in relation  to the commission  and profit 
share it got from the PPI policy, it can deduct this from the redress calculated  in A and B.
D.Tesco should tell Ms B what its done to work out the amount payable to her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest.  Tesco must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Bs complaint  and instruct  
Tesco Personal Finance PLC to put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0044555