K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about a decision  made by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) to hold her liable  for a parking charge notice (PCN)  that it paid (in respect  of a 
vehicle on hire to her at the relevant time), plus an administration fee for doing so.
background 
On 29 October 2018 a third party, that I will call B, issued a PCN in respect of the vehicle 
on hire to Ms C. This was set at £100  reducing to £60 if paid within  14 days. This was 
received by VWFS on 1 November 2018.  VWFS  says it informed B that Ms C was 
responsible for the PCN not it.
VWFS says it then received from B further correspondence confirming the PCN was still 
outstanding. And because  of this it took the decision to pay the sum demanded of £60 and 
to invoice Ms C the same, plus an administration fee of £25.
In April 2019, and having received VWFS invoice  for £85, Ms C raised  a complaint with it. In 
summary she said she had received nothing from VWFS in respect of the PCN so had been 
deprived the opportunity of disputing it. She also complained about VWFS decision to not 
allow her to settle her hire agreement obligation net of the £85 PCN.
VWFS considered Ms Cs complaint  but didnt uphold it. In April 2019 it sent Ms C a final 
response letter (FRL) in which it said, in summary, that it had acted entirely  appropriately at 
all times and in line with the terms of the hire agreement.
In April 2019 and unhappy with VWFS  FRL,  Ms C referred her complaint to our service.
In June 2019 Ms C wrote  to VWFS to say that she would be settling her hire agreement by 
paying the sum requested  of her (inclusive of the £85) but she would still be pursuing her 
complaint with our service.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who ultimately concluded  it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said VWFS  had done nothing wrong in seeking  the sum 
of £85 from Ms C.
Ms C responded to say that she didnt  agree. However the investigator wasnt  persuaded to 
change his mind  so the complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in March  2020. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Ms C has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided 
detailed submissions in support  of her view which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that Ms C will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central  issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably  less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address  every  point raised.  The purpose  of my decision is to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Ref: DRN05991522I would also like to point  out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
For ease I will address  each of the points raised  by Ms C, in her initial complaint 
submission to our service, one by one.
lack of contact from VWFS between November  2018 and March 2019  regarding  the 
PCN and whether VWFS acted fairly in paying  the PCN
When considering  complaints,  I take into account  relevant law. The Protection of 
Freedoms Act 2012  is relevant  to this complaint. This says in relation to parking 
charges that if certain conditions are met, the creditor (B in this case)  has a right to 
recover any unpaid parking charges from the keeper of the vehicle.  So, Im satisfied 
VWFS could  legally  be held responsible for the charge by B.
But, the Act also says that, in the case of a hire vehicle,  the creditor  cant  exercise 
this right if the keeper passes certain details to it about the person who leased the 
vehicle involved.  So, Ive considered whether  VWFS  couldve done this, instead  of 
paying the charge itself. But, looking at the paperwork Ms C signed when she 
acquired the vehicle,  I dont think  it could. 
This is because the Act says VWFS  would have had to have given  B a statement of 
liability that says the hirer acknowledges responsibility for any parking charges that 
may be incurred with respect  to the vehicle.  But, Ms C didnt sign anything  that 
accepts this, because  VWFS didnt ask her to. So VWFS couldnt have given this to 
B. 
Ive considered if VWFS has somehow disadvantaged Ms C by not asking her to sign 
a statement  of liability. But there wasnt a requirement for it to do so. And industry  
guidance seems  to allow leasing companies  to deal with charges in this way. So, Im 
satisfied this isnt the case.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Ms Cs hire agreement with VWFS, to see 
if she agreed to anything which would mean she was responsible  for repaying  VWFS  
for the charge.
VWFS says the hire agreement allowed it to pay the PCN and then seek this sum 
(plus an administration  fee) from Ms C. In particular it referred me to section 4.4 of 
the hire agreement which says:
You must pay all licence  fees, taxes,  insurance premiums, fines  and other  payments 
associated with the vehicle or arising  out of or as a result of the seizure  of the vehicle  
by any statutory authorities as they fall due
Now in my view section 4.4 of the hire agreement doesnt allow, or certainly doesnt 
clearly allow,  VWFS  to pay the PCN and then to seek recovery of the same (plus and 
administration fee) from Ms C. But Im mindful that Ms C has provided our service  
with a letter she received from VWFS  at the start of her agreement which says:
Ref: DRN05991523There are also a few more things  you need to know about your agreement
Paying fines
It is your responsibility to pay any fines you get in your vehicle, such  as congestion 
charge, bus lane fines, speeding and parking fines.  However, as we are the 
registered keepers  of the vehicle, we may have to pay the fine on your behalf. If we 
do, we will invoice you, plus a £25 administration charge.
So taking everything into account I think VWFS  was entitled to pay the PCN that it 
did and it was entitled to then seek repayment of the same, plus £25, from Ms C.
I would also add that I dont think that VWFS has acted unreasonably or unfairly  
here. I appreciate that had Ms C been made aware  of the PCN  she might  have  
contested it. But I think VWFS had two options. It couldve paid the PCN, as it did, 
preventing potential further costs for itself and Ms C. Or, it could have not paid the 
charge and advised B it should,  or needed,  to pursue Ms C. 
But in my view if it had done the latter it was then possible  that B mightve  passed 
VWFS and Ms Cs details over to debt collection agencies and potentially  taken legal 
action against  VWFS or Ms C. 
I know Ms C feels VWFS shouldve taken the second option. But I dont agree this is 
reasonable. Im satisfied  VWFS thought it was acting in its, and Ms Cs, best interests 
when it paid the PCN.
Finally I would add that although VWFS didnt send  Ms C its invoice for £85 until 
March 2018, rather than say January 2018,  I cant see that this delay  in itself  has 
caused Ms C a loss.
 
unauthorised direct  debit  collection  on 1 April 2019  for £85
Ms C says that VWFS had no right to collect, by way of direct  debit on 1 April 2019, 
the £85 from her. 
As I say above, Im satisfied that VWFS was entitled  to hold Ms C liable for this sum. 
So therefore  it follows, in my view, that it wasnt unreasonable for VWFS to seek  
repayment of this sum. I can also see that payment was requested  by way of an 
invoice sent to Ms C, dated 19 March 2019, which stated  the sum of £85 would be 
collected in due course and by direct debit.  This covering letter also offered other 
ways for Ms C to pay if she didnt want to pay by direct debit. 
In my view VWFS  acted appropriately here and Ms C was given  enough time to 
object to the payment being  collected  by direct debit, or to make alternative 
arrangements for payment. 
issue of late payment notice dated  8 April 2019
Ms C is unhappy with VWFS letter dated  8 April 2019 seeking  payment of £85 of 
her. But Ive seen  nothing  in this letter that, in my view, is incorrect  or could be 
viewed as being either unfair or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN05991524refusal to allow  settlement  of the hire agreement less £85
I accept that Ms C was prepared to settle  her agreement with VWFS for the sum it 
was seeking from her, less £85. 
But had VWFS accepted  Ms Cs offer (and held the sum of £85 in dispute) its my 
understanding that this could have had negative  consequences for her, for example 
her agreement being declared, whether  immediately  or at some later point in time, as 
being in default.
Therefore although  VWFS decision to seek the sum that it did would have caused, 
and ultimately did cause, Ms Cs bargaining position to change  (from one where  
VWFS would have been required to seek from her £85 rather than she having to 
seek the same sum from it) I cant see that this has, in itself, caused Ms C to suffer  a 
direct loss. I certainly cant see that VWFS decision to seek the sum that it did 
caused  in itself  the loss Ms C is claiming,  this being additional hire and insurance 
costs.
I would also add that although I accept  that VWFS decision not to accept what Ms C 
was proposing, by way of payment in settlement of her agreement, might have 
caused her some distress  and inconvenience,  Im not persuaded this distress  and 
inconvenience could  be said to be material.
attitude of various  VWFS staff
VWFS has provided me with a number of call recordings, including two calls that 
Ms C has made specific reference to in her submissions to our service.  But having  
listened to these calls Im not persuaded Ms C was ever given incorrect  information, 
or that she was ever treated  unprofessionally  or discourteously.
So in summary I think that in the particular circumstances  of this case VWFS has 
treated Ms C fairly and reasonably and it need  not pay her the sum she is seeking by 
way of compensation. Nor need it refund the £85 fee it charged her.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision by the date I gave.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has responded to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart 
from it and I now confirm  it as final. 
Ref: DRN05991525my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0599152