K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains on behalf of Mrs N about  end of contract charges when Mrs Ns agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited ended.
background 
In September  2015 Mrs N was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS. At the end of the term the car was returned to the dealership where it 
was collected  and inspected. 
Following the inspection MBFS asked Mrs N to pay charges  for damage.  
Mr T disputed the charges  on behalf  of Mrs N. He says he wasnt  advised about  the damage  
prior to the invoice  being issued, nor was he given the opportunity to dispute it. Hes 
unhappy that MBFS didnt seek his agreement  to carry out repairs.
In its final response MBFS said that the damage  fell outside of its returns  standards  and that 
the charges remained  due. It said it had provided  a copy of the returns  standards  at the start 
of the agreement and again  6 months  before  the end of the term.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought the charges were  fair. She said that MBFS had made Mrs N aware 
of the vehicle returns standards and of how damage charges were calculated.  The 
investigator said that MBFSs offer to reduce the charges by a further 25% was a fair offer.
Mr T didnt  agree. He said MBFS had taken two months to tell him about the damage 
charges and hadnt provided him with the actual  costs of repair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the hire purchase  agreement say that Mrs N must return  the car 
in good condition and that any damage  which exceeds fair wear  and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage  exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the photos. This identifies  damage to the front 
and rear bumper,  the left hand wing and the left hand front alloy.  The damage is clearly 
visible in the photos and Im satisfied it exceeds fair wear and tear in accordance with the 
guidelines. So Im unable to say that MBFS has acted unfairly by asking Mrs N to pay for the 
damage.
Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments that he hasnt been provided  with a tariff of repair  
charges. In relation to what MBFS can charge, the terms and conditions of the agreement  
make it clear  that the car must be maintained in a condition which  is consistent  with the 
vehicle returns standards  in the welcome  pack.  The terms and conditions also say that if the 
Ref: DRN08757702car isnt returned in good condition, MBFS can decided whether to carry out repairs and 
charge for these,  or not to carry out repairs and instead charge an amount as compensation 
for the loss in value it suffers on a sale of the car.
In this case, MBFS hasnt  carried out repairs but has charged  compensation based on the 
devaluation of the car. I havent  seen any evidence to suggest that the charges are unfair or 
unreasonable. 
I can see that MBFS has offered to reduce the charges to £472.50 as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Based on what Ive seen,  Im unable to uphold the complaint. I think the offer is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0875770