K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about how Admiral Insurance  Company Limited handled repairs  to his car 
following a claim he made  on his car insurance policy.
background
In June 2017 Mr Bs car was in an accident. Admiral accepted the claim and damage was 
noted to the front bumper,  as well as the left and right hand side of the car. 
In order to repair the bumper, the garage  had to remove it. When  it did, it noted the brackets 
on the bumper  were badly corroded.  So it asked Mr B if he wanted  the bumper replacing  and 
told him the replacement  wouldn't  be covered by Admiral. It explained  how much this would 
cost him. Mr B agreed to this.
Shortly after, Mr B contacted Admiral to check that it would cover  the cost of replacing the 
bumper. Admiral said it didnt know why Mr B had been charged  as the engineers  report  had 
said it could be repaired. So Admiral asked Mr B to send in the invoice.
Once Mr B had done this, Admiral realised some  of the damage to the bumper wasnt  
accident related.  The garage hadnt  told Admiral  about this. Admiral said it wouldnt cover 
the cost of replacing the bumper as part of the claim as the damage  wasnt  related to the 
accident. It said if it hadnt been  for the corrosion, the bumper could have  been  repaired. But 
because of the corrosion it would need  to be replaced, so it wasnt willing  to cover  the cost of 
this.
Mr B complained to Admiral. He said hed been assured in the first phone  call that the 
amount would be covered, so it wasnt fair for Admiral to change its mind.
Our investigator didnt  think the bumper should  be covered as part of the claim.  She was 
satisfied the need to replace the bumper hadnt been  caused  by the accident based on the 
reports. She said Mr B had agreed for the bumper  to be replaced before he spoke to 
Admiral. So it didnt  matter if it had given conflicting information to him, as hed already 
agreed for the repairs to go ahead.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he was given wrong information by the garage and so he thought  
the damage to the bumper wasnt being covered.  He said if hed have  been  given the option  
to keep his old bumper and have it repaired, hed have chosen to do so. 
As Mr B didnt agree,  the matter has come to me to decide. 
Ive already told both parties that I intend  to come  to a slightly different  outcome to the 
investigator. Ive said that I think the garage  made it clear  that the replacement bumper 
wouldnt be covered  under  the policy. So Admiral doesnt have to pay Mr B the cost of this. 
But I noted that Admiral  would  have  paid £240 to repair the accident-related  damage.  And 
because he replaced  the bumper it didnt  have to pay this. So I thought it should have paid 
Mr B this amount.
Mr B accepted this but Admiral didnt respond.
Ref: DRN02715772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Bs motor insurance policy covers him for damage caused to his car as a result of an 
accident. But it says it will not pay for wear  and tear. 
Admiral accepts there was damage  to front bumper as part of the accident.  It thought  this 
damage could  be repaired and it authorised the garage to do this. But in the process of 
repairing the bumper,  the garage  realised the bumper brackets were badly corroded. The 
engineer said this wouldnt have been  caused by the accident and is something that would 
have happened  over time. Having looked at the photographs and the report, I think Admiral  
is entitled to rely on this and exclude the cost of replacing the bumper. The photographs 
show the brackets have  almost entirely rusted and it seems  reasonable that this wouldnt 
have been caused by the accident. So its entitled  to say it is as a result of wear and tear and 
not to pay for its replacement.
Mr B says he didnt know the bumper  could be repaired, so he thought hed have to pay for it 
to be replaced. He said the garage and Admiral  hadnt been  clear with him, and if hed been  
better informed he wouldnt have agreed  to go ahead  with the replacement bumper. 
Having looked  at the communication  between the garage and Mr B, I think  it made it clear to 
Mr B that the replacement  wouldnt be covered  by Admiral. The garage wrote to Mr B and 
told him that the bumper brackets were  severely corroded. It told him the replacement  wasnt 
something Admiral would cover as it was down to wear and tear. The garage then explained 
the cost of the new bumper and asked Mr B whether  he would like to go ahead.  Mr B 
confirmed he did. 
I think it was clear that Admiral wouldnt cover  the cost of the replacement. And Mr B was 
asked if he wanted  to go ahead. This suggests  he had another  option  if he didnt want to pay 
for the replacement bumper. Mr B didnt ask the garage if he had another  option. And even if 
he had, I think its likely  hed have gone ahead with the replacement anyway. The engineers 
view was that Mr B would have had to replace the bumper in the near future. And as it was 
done as part of the repair Mr B saved on the labour  cost he would have otherwise  had to 
pay. 
However, I think Admiral should pay Mr B what it would  have  paid to repair  the bumper. The 
engineers report  has broken  down the cost of repairing the bumper and it seems it would 
have cost Admiral around £240 to do this. Ive asked Admiral to confirm  this figure and it 
hasnt responded.  So I think its reasonable to assume this is accurate.  
If Mr B had chosen to repair the bumper instead  of replace, Admiral  would have paid £240. 
But because the bumper wasnt repaired,  Admiral  has made a saving. So I think  its fair that 
Admiral contributes  this amount.  From Admirals records it doesnt seem it has done so, so it 
needs to do so in order to resolve the complaint.
Ref: DRN02715773my final decision
My final decision is I direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr B £240 for the 
repairs to the bumper  if it hasnt already. It should add 8% simple  interest  to this figure 
from the date of repairs until the date of settlement.*
 *Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Admiral Insurance  Company Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  should give Mr B a tax deduction certificate  if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0271577