K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 27 March 2019, 
a copy of which is attached. I didnt conclude  that the complaint should  be upheld.
Mrs H disagreed. She said, in summary, that:
She didnt  take the PPI out during a phone call. When  she was shopping in a store,  the 
member of staff asked her how shed  repay  the balance  shed  built up on her card if she 
couldnt work. She was told a debt collection agency would be used to take goods from 
her home  if she couldnt  repay the balance and, particularly because  she had young  
children, she was frightened into taking the PPI.
Her husband wouldve helped her repay the balance if needed.
Weve made assumptions about what happened  shes not seen  evidence  to show that 
FICL didnt  mis-sell the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Mrs H took out the PPI in 1996. Not surprisingly, given it took place so long ago, some of the 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, and contradictory. So I reach  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
FICL told us Mrs H took out the PPI during  a phone call around three months after shed 
applied for the card.  But Mrs H recalls she took it out when she was using her card in a 
store. I dont doubt  Mrs Hs recollection   and that a discussion took place encouraging her 
to take the PPI. But this doesnt  make  a difference to my conclusion. I dont conclude she 
was put under any undue  pressure and I think it was clear  because  she was already using 
the card  that she didnt have to have  the PPI.
Mrs H says her husband couldve helped her meet the repayments. But, if she wasnt  
working, her husbands income wouldve been needed to meet other  household expenses. 
So I think the PPI could still have been a useful benefit.
Having taken into account Mrs Hs comments in response to my provisional  decision, I find 
no basis on which to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Ref: DRN05880932my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05880933copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs H complains that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs H took out in 1996.  The PPI 
covered Mrs H if she was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Its been  agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should  be upheld,  concluding that Mrs Hs particular  
circumstances meant she wouldve found it hard to make a successful claim for unemployment. The 
adjudicator didnt think  Mrs H wouldve taken the policy  if the relevant  policy terms had been  pointed 
out to her clearly  enough.
FICL didnt agree saying, in summary,  that Mrs H was in continuous employment so was eligible for 
the policy  and her previous temporary role wouldnt have had an impact on her ability  to claim  under 
the policy.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Im not minded to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Overall, I think  its likely FICL made Mrs H aware she had a choice about  buying  the policy  and she 
chose to take it. I say this because, although Mrs H thinks  she must  have bought the PPI when  she 
took out the store card, FICLs records say she took out the PPI during a phone call around three 
months after shed applied for the card.  Ive not seen her application form for the card,  but I think 
thats likely to be right.  So she must  reasonably  have known that she didnt have to have the PPI to 
have the store card. And although shes said she was scared into having  it, shes not told us about  
anything specific that FICL did or said which would in my view amount to putting unfair pressure on 
her.
FICL says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, but Mrs H recalls she was advised to take it. I dont 
need to make  a finding on this point, because it makes no difference  to the outcome of this complaint. 
Thats because the evidence suggests that the PPI was right for Mrs H based on her personal 
circumstances at the time in any event.
The terms  of the policy that I think shes likely  to have bought say that to be eligible for the policy, 
when she took it out, Mrs H had to be, actively working  in paid employment  for at least 16 hours or 
more a week . Shes told us she was working part time, but that she was employed  for more than 16 
hours a week.  So I find she was eligible for the policy.
Ref: DRN05880934Mrs H wouldve been excluded from making  a successful claim for unemployment,  unless you were  
working in continuous work for 6 monthsimmediately  before your employment ended . Mrs H told 
us she was working  on a temporary contract from January 1996 to May 1996 and in May 1996 she 
started in a permanent position. She cant recall if she had any time off between  the roles. I think, in 
all likelihood, when she took out the policy in June 1996, she wouldve been in continuous 
employment for six months, or close to it. So I dont think she wouldve been affected by this 
exclusion.
It doesnt  look like Mrs H was affected by any of the other exclusions or limits on the PPI cover and it 
looks like the PPI was affordable. Shes told us shed only have got limited sick pay and had no other 
means of making her repayments if she wasnt working,  so I think  the PPI couldve been useful for her 
if she was off work sick or lost her job. And she could  cancel it without further cost if at any stage her 
situation changed or she no longer wanted it. So I think it unlikely Mrs H wouldve  made a different 
decision if better  information had been provided.
Overall I dont currently think Mrs H has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0588093