K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr C took out four instalment  loans with Uncle Buck between February 2016 and July 2016. 
Uncle Buck  hasnt been able to provide this service with copies of the loan agreements but, 
based on what Ive seen, I understand that the loans were repayable in three, monthly 
repayments. Mr C repaid all the loans. A summary of Mr Cs borrowing from Uncle Buck  is 
as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
14 February 2016 150 9 February 2016
217 February 2016 400 7 March 2016
319 March 2016 550 20 June 2016
44 July 2016 500 7 December 2017
Mr C says that he couldnt afford to repay  the loans and that Uncle  Buck shouldnt have lent 
to him. He wants a refund  of interest and charges, with interest. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think  that Uncle  Buck was 
wrong to lend to him. Mr C didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman  consider his 
complaint, so it was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN02550092the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I dont think that Uncle  Buck  was wrong  to give Mr C loans one, two and three. Given  the 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time and his 
history with the lender at those points,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for 
Uncle Buck  to ask Mr C for the amount of information needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr C provided or the information 
Uncle Buck  shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  for it to 
start verifying what Mr C said at that stage. 
Before loan four, I think Uncle Buck shouldve taken  steps to build a more detailed picture of 
Mr Cs financial  situation. Thats because, this was Mr Cs fourth loan in five months. But I 
havent seen anything in the information provided which suggests that if Uncle  Buck had 
done that, it would likely  have seen that Mr C wouldnt have been able to make the 
repayments for loan four sustainably. Mr C has provided copies of his bank statements from 
September 2016 but that doesnt tell me what proportionate checks would have shown 
Uncle Buck  in July 2016, when it was dealing with his application  for loan four. 
Mr C has also provided his credit  report.  Information  a prospective lender can see from its 
credit checks isnt in the same format or detail as Mr C can see from his own credit report. 
The credit checks carried out by Uncle Buck didnt indicate that Mr C would have  difficulty 
repaying the loans  in a sustainable  way.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I dont 
think that the pattern of lending, in itself, indicates that this lending was unsustainable. There  
were four loans granted over five months.  I dont think that, in itself, showed  a worrying  
pattern of lending. 
Ref: DRN02550093my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0255009