K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2006, to cover Mrs H for accident, sickness and unemployment. Mrs H says Santander UK 
Plc mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs H bought the PPI over the phone. I cant be sure what  was discussed  during the 
telephone call as Santander hasnt been  able to provide a recording or transcript  of the 
call. But it has sent us a guidance  document that I understand the adviser  wouldve been  
expected to follow during the call. I think from this it wouldve been clear that the policy  
was optional and that Mrs H wouldve been  asked if she wanted it. Ive considered the 
possibility that the script wasnt followed.  But overall  I think  its most likely it was.
I can see the paperwork Santander then sent to Mrs H included  details  of the PPI the 
adviser had recommended, and set out the monthly  cost of the policy.  There  was nothing  
in that paperwork  to suggest the PPI was compulsory, so I think Mrs H would have  
understood that she didnt have to have  the policy.
Overall I think  its more  likely Santander made  Mrs H aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it, even if  understandably   she doesnt 
remember that now.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs H, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
Mrs H has told us she was entitled to six months full pay if she had been too ill to work. 
But the PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months,  longer than her sick pay would have 
lasted. And Mrs H hasnt told us about any other  means she had to pay her mortgage if 
something went wrong and she was too ill to work or became unemployed. She also 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  So given that the 
mortgage was a significant  financial commitment  secured  against Mrs Hs home,  I think  
she wouldve found the policy useful.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. I 
appreciate that Mrs H feels it wasnt fully explained that she would only be able to claim 
for unemployment if she was registered as unemployed.  But given the benefits of this 
policy, and that it was intended  to help cover a mortgage,  I dont think that better  
information  or a more  in-depth  explanation of the PPI would have put Mrs H off taking  
out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including  what shes  said about her other  
claim for PPI being upheld. But PPI was sold in different  ways,  at different times, with terms 
Ref: DRN06246032and conditions that varied over time.  So I dont  think that Mrs Hs previously  upheld  claim for 
PPI means this claim should  also be upheld. 
I remain satisfied that this PPI policy was not mis-sold. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Mrs H some  of the commission  she 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Hs mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So Santander  doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs H paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0624603