K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  Barclays  Bank UK PLC didnt send her digitally stamped bank statements 
as shed requested.  This lead to her losing a £1,349.20 fee shed paid for a visa application.
background
On 4 January  2019 Miss K asked Barclays to send  her digitally signed bank statements for 
her visa interview. The statements arrived on 11 January but were  not signed.
Barclays accepted  it didnt send Miss K the bank statements in the correct format. And it said 
it would  pay her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset its caused her. But it thought 
it was her responsibility to get them in time for her visa interview. And it said when Miss K 
phoned it to say it hadnt send her the correct bank statements it suggested she call into a 
local branch the following day on 12 January 2019  and when she said she couldnt do this it 
suggested she call in on the morning of her interview on 14 January but she said she 
couldnt do this either.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays should  cover the cost of Miss Ks application. He said 
customers should try and minimise their losses. So he thought  Miss K shouldve  ordered the 
statements before  she made her appointment to make sure she got them  on time. And he 
thought she couldve  arranged to go into a branch of Barclays on the morning  of her 
interview. He looked at the information  Miss K sent him about visa fees but couldnt see any 
evidence that an applicant cancelling an appointment would lose the whole of the application 
fee.
Miss K said she didnt accept his opinion because there are still statements that are untrue 
and not acceptable but she didnt explain what those were.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
I can understand the difficulties Miss K had in trying  to coordinate her appointment and 
getting the necessary documentation  in time. And I can understand why this was a stressful 
time for her so Im sorry to hear she hasnt been  well. But having  looked carefully at all the 
information shes given  us Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more.
Ive seen a copy  of the email dated 3 January  2019  confirming Miss Ks payment  of 
£1,349.20 for her visa application. She booked an appointment  for 14 January and asked 
Barclays to send her the necessary bank statements. From the banks records  I note that 
previously Miss K had difficulty  getting  bank statements  for a similar purpose.  So I think  she 
couldve reasonably  anticipated there might be a problem. Yet she chose to ask Barclays  to 
send these statements  to her by post and not to go into a local branch where  she couldve 
made sure they were in the right format. 
Miss K said she couldnt go into a branch  to collect the statements on 12 January  2019 
because she was abroad for the weekend. But she hasnt explained why she couldnt  go into 
a branch on the morning of her appointment two days later. 
Ref: DRN07329132Miss K explained to us that when she went for her interview she was told she needed to 
book another  appointment when  she had her bank statements in the correct form. But I cant 
see she was told she would have  to pay another application fee. And she hasnt sent us any 
correspondence that explained the cancellation  of her appointment meant she had lost her 
application fee of £1,349.20. Miss K said the government agency doesnt send out such  
correspondence but I think its reasonably likely  that if it was keeping  all or most of the 
substantial sum Miss K had paid without letting  her make another appointment it would have 
sent some  confirmation  of that to her.
Miss K may have misunderstood the situation about her application fee. But for the reasons  
Ive given above I dont have sufficient  evidence to conclude that, because she didnt have 
the correct bank statements when she attended her appointment, shes  lost her application 
fee. 
For all those reasons Im not going to uphold  her complaint. Barclays has offered Miss K 
£100 for the trouble and upset its caused  her. I think  thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. If Miss K would  like to accept  that offer,  our investigator will explain to her 
how she can do that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0732913