K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC has dealt with him.
background
Mr A complains that Lloyds didnt  help him at a difficult time. The interest and charges it 
applied to his account led to it being  defaulted  and this has affected his future  lending.  He 
wants his account  re-opened, the outstanding  balance cleared and compensation. 
Lloyds said in its final response that Mr As account  did facilitate direct debits but some 
werent paid as there wasnt enough money  in the account. The account was closed with a 
debit balance and it had a duty to ensure accurate information about this was recorded with 
credit reference agencies. The interest  and charges applied  to the account didnt alone lead 
to a default being applied.  Mr A had been  offered 15 repayment plans in the past all of which  
hed broken. The default was applied correctly and was backdated to the third repayment  
plan. The bank  has proactively tried to assist him and has also refunded some fees. It hasnt 
made an error.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld as Lloyds had treated Mr A fairly. In 
summary he said:
Lloyds followed the correct procedures when closing Mr As account in April 2017 
with a debit balance. We cant make it re-open it.
This left Mr A with a basic account with another bank  which  wouldve caused him 
some inconvenience  given its limited facilities. He can apply to Lloyds  for a new 
account. But Lloyds  will make a commercial decision when  deciding  if it agrees to 
open one based  on its criteria and data from credit reference agencies.
Lloyds gave Mr A notice of the default being registered and the account closed. He 
was also told if it was closed with a debit balance  this would be recorded  on his credit 
file. Lloyds is entitled to recover the money owed including  by using  agents.  The 
default has also been backdated.  The information recorded on Mr As credit file is 
accurate
Lloyds treated Mr A positively and sympathetically when he was in financial difficulty. 
There were 15 repayment  plans which were broken or suspended. It also waived 
charges and some interest. It also refunded some  fees and paid a small amount of 
compensation when not at fault.  Having listened to the phone calls Mr A was treated 
fairly and reasonably  when speaking to Lloyds staff members.
Lloyds hasnt made an error.
Mr A has asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07585822I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
I think its clear  Lloyds  treated Mr A positively and sympathetically when he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. It assisted him and arranged 15 repayment plans, refunded and waived 
some interest and charges and paid a small amount of compensation to him.
Mr As account had a debit balance. So, Lloyds was entitled to default the account when it 
did. It gave Mr A appropriate notice of the default and the account closure. It was and is also 
entitled to seek  to recover the amount owed  and its done nothing wrong instructing agents 
to assist with that.
Lloyds also agreed  to back date the default  and has accurately recorded the conduct of the 
account on Mr As credit  file. Thats all fair. I think Lloyds  also dealt with Mr A fairly and 
appropriately including on the phone. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think Lloyds has done  anything wrong. And I cant 
fairly or reasonably require it to amend  Mr As credit file, re-open his account,  clear the 
balance owed or pay compensation as he would like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr As frustration, I dont see any compelling reason to change 
the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0758582