K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a complaint under his 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  in October  2016.  He said his car was stationary and he 
was parked outside a friends house with his wife in the passenger seat. He said a 
motorcyclist hit his parked  car. He said the motorcyclist had accepted the accident was his 
fault. 
Following the accident  the motorcyclist didnt accept he was to blame. He said Mr S had 
reversed from his friends driveway  and hit him. So the motorcyclists  insurer said Mr S was 
to blame for the accident. 
UKI asked  an accident investigator to look into what had happened and interview Mr S and 
his friend,  Mr M. It said it also tried to get a copy of the police report. Mr S was unhappy 
about the time UKI were  taking to make a decision on the claim. He was also unhappy that 
his premium had increased at renewal following the accident. So he brought his complaint to 
us.
UKI said it was doing everything it could but as both Mr S and the motorcyclist thought each 
other was at fault for the accident  it was taking some time to agree  a settlement. It said      
Mr Ss premium  had increased  as hed got an open claim against his policy  and insurance 
premium tax (IPT)  had also increased.
While our investigator was looking into Mr Ss complaint UKI said it had settled the claim on 
a 50/50 basis.  This means both Mr S and the cyclist shared  equal  fault for the accident.  UKI 
said it had made the decision in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It said there 
were no independent witnesses and it was one persons word against the other. It didnt 
think it would  be able to prove Mr S wasnt to blame  if the claim went  to court.  
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably. She thought it had made  a decision that 
was in line with the policy terms and hadnt caused  any delays. She thought UKI had shown 
that the premium  increase was due to the claim. So she didnt  ask UKI to do anything 
differently. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
liability decision
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the courts.  
Instead we look to see that the insurer (in this case UKI) has acted  fairly  and reasonably  
when coming to its decision. 
Ref: DRN00884782The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss policy allow UKI to take over the defence or settlement of 
a claim against his policy. This might mean that UKI makes a decision that Mr S disagrees 
with but the policy allows it to do so. Again, I look to see that its done  this fairly and 
reasonably. 
I can see that UKI did its best to defend the claim and hold the motorcyclist  fully at fault for 
the accident. 
UKI said it made its decision to settle  the claim  on a 50/50 basis  because it didnt think  it 
could prove  Mr S wasnt to blame if the case went  to court. It said there were no independent  
witnesses and it was one persons word against  the other. Mr S said Mr M had provided a 
witness statement and the police report and ambulance driver would also support his version 
of events. UKI said there wasnt a police report that supported his account and there  were  
also inconsistencies in Mr Ms account  of where  he was standing  at the time of the accident. 
I can see that in one account  he said he was stood on the pavement  side next to the 
stationary car. But in a separate witness statement he said he was on the slope leading  to 
my house . 
I appreciate Mr M provided  a witness statement but there werent  any witness  statements 
from people who didnt  know  either Mr S or the motorcyclist. The ambulance  driver wasnt  
there when  the accident happened and there wasnt a police report to support Mr Ss version 
of events either. For these  reasons Im satisfied it was reasonable for UKI to settle  the claim 
on a 50/50 basis.
time taken  for UKI to deal with the claim
The accident  happened  in October 2016  and UKI decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 
basis in September  2017. Insurers have a responsibility to settle claims in a reasonable time.  
I can understand Mr Ss frustration at the amount  of time the claim was open for but I dont 
find it unusual given  that both Mr S and the motorcyclist said each other  was the blame. Im 
satisfied from UKIs  notes and the letters it sent to the motorcyclists insurer that it didnt 
unnecessarily delay the claim. 
premium increase
Mr S is unhappy that his premium increased  by over £200 following the accident. Its not 
unusual for insurers  to increase premiums when theres been a claim. And, providing they 
treat people fairly, we generally take the view that insurers are free to decide how they want  
to take account  of factors that they think increase  risk when they calculate premium.
When a claim  has been  settled 50/50 its still considered  a fault claim. This doesnt 
necessarily mean Mr S was at fault in the ordinary sense of the word. The insurance industry 
uses the word fault when  its had to pay for a claim and wont be able to recoup all of its 
money. UKI has shown  us how it calculated Mr Ss premium and I can see that it applied  its 
normal pricing criteria to him in the same way it would have with anyone else in his situation. 
And, of course, it would always have been  open  to Mr S to look for cheaper insurance 
elsewhere. I can also see that the premium increase was also due to a rise in IPT which  is 
beyond UKIs control. So I think UKI has treated Mr S fairly. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr S was hoping for but Im satisfied UKIs acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Ref: DRN00884783my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0088478