K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
Advantage Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to reject the car and cancel 
the finance agreement.
The complaint is brought  on his behalf by his wife.
background
Mr F obtained a second hand car in March 2018,  financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage Finance.
Mr F says that, within a couple  of weeks of obtaining  the car, he noticed the following faults:
A fault with the nearside reverse light, causing an audible sound on the dashboard.
Drivers sun visor  faulty.
Scraping noise  coming from the offside front wheel.
Plus some other faults  which were fixed.
Mr F returned the car to the garage and it carried out repairs. But he says the nearside 
reverse light wasnt fixed and he now wants to reject  the car.
Advantage Finance said Mr F hadnt  provided  evidence to show  that any faults were present 
when the car was supplied. An independent report had concluded the car had been fit for 
purpose when  it was supplied, so Advantage  Finance didnt uphold  Mr Fs complaint.
After he referred his complaint to this service,  and an estimate for the cost of repairs was 
obtained, Advantage Finance said it would  pay for the cost of repair for the light and the sun 
visor - £371.23. And that it would arrange  a second independent report to investigate the 
scraping noise. 
Our investigator thought this was a fair resolution  to the complaint.
Mr F didnt  agree. His wife said, on his behalf  and in summary, that:
The faults occurred  soon after the car was obtained.
The independent  inspection  didnt include proper testing  the engineer just looked at 
the dashboard.
The sun visor  has still not been  repaired.
The garage that carried out the repair said the problem with the nearside rear light was 
a faulty bulb, but the inspection report says it was a bigger  fault that just a blown bulb.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03521932In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Advantage  Finance  is the supplier of goods  
under this agreement  and is responsible  for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
when it was supplied,  how much mileage the car covered  since it was supplied  and how long 
after supply the fault materialised. 
The car in this case was around 11 years old when it was supplied  in March 2018  and its 
mileage was around 106,000 miles.  Whilst its normal to expect some  repairs due to wear  
and tear, particularly in a second  hand  car, Mr F reported the faults within  a couple of weeks  
of obtaining the car. This would suggest  to me that the faults were present  when  the car was 
supplied.
But Ive also taken into account the findings of the independent report. This concluded that:
The fact that the vehicle was road legal at the point of sale leads us to conclusion that the 
current issues have developed after the date of sale i.e. and given the vehicles age and 
reported mileage  we consider the current development as age-related general wear  and tear 
rather than a material failure.
This report was completed  by an independent expert and its right that I place reliance on its 
findings. This concludes  that the faults are due to normal wear  and tear.
But, as the faults were  reported so soon  after the car was obtained, repairs were  carried  out 
at no cost to Mr F. I think this is fair and reasonable.
Some faults werent properly fixed.  But I dont consider the faults with the nearside reverse 
light and the sun visor  to be sufficiently significant to oblige Advantage Finance to accept 
Mr Fs rejection of the car. This wouldnt be a proportionate remedy. An estimate of the cost 
of these repairs has been obtained  and Advantage Finance has agreed to pay that cost - 
£319.23. Its said it will credit this to Mr Fs account to reduce the arrears, but I think  it should 
pay it directly  to him, on evidence of an invoice for the cost of the repair.
Advantage Finance has agreed to arrange  a second independent inspection to investigate  
the noise coming  from the offside front wheel. The brake pads have  recently been replaced  
and the independent  engineer road tested the car and concluded that the brakes  are safe.  
But he recommended  the minor audible noise  which he thought  was the brake back plate 
contacting the brake disc should  be investigated further. I think  its fair that 
Advantage Finance should  be given  the opportunity to investigate. If this report concludes 
the faults were  present when the car was supplied, then Advantage Finance should  pay for 
the necessary  repairs. 
Ref: DRN03521933I cant see any reason why Mr F couldnt  continue to drive  the car  none of the reported  
faults were a safety issue or affected the cars performance. So I dont find that 
Advantage Finance should  waive any of the monthly payments.
I understand Mr F hasnt  made any payments under the terms of the finance  agreement so 
he is now in arrears. Advantage  Finance  says it will consider a repayment  plan for the 
arrears if Mr F cannot bring  the account  up to date.
my final decision
My final decision is that Advantage Finance Ltd should:
1.Pay Mr F for the cost of repair for the nearside rear light and the sun visor, on receipt  of 
evidence of invoices for the cost. This should be paid directly to him and not used to 
reduce the account  arrears.
2.Arrange and pay for an independent  report to inspect the minor audible noise coming 
form the offside  front wheel.
3.If the report concludes the noise is due to a fault that was present when the car was 
supplied, Advantage Finance Ltd should pay for the cost of repair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0352193