K820x#14complaint
Ms C and Mr S complain  that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted  
unfairly and unreasonably  by charging  an early  repayment charge  (ERC) when the 
mortgage was ended  early. They want the ERC  refunded.
background
Ms C and Mr S had a mortgage with Halifax for a second property lived in by a relative, 
which if repaid or ended early would mean an ERC  would be charged.  Ms C said that she 
spoke to Halifax about transferring the mortgage to the relative several times to check that if 
the mortgage was ended  early to enable the transfer, and was told that no ERC  would  be 
charged if the transfer happened between February and April 2019. But before the sale of 
the property completed, Ms C and Mr S were told more than once that the ERC would be 
charged. They felt that this was unfair.
Ms C and Mr S complained to Halifax. It upheld the complaint and agreed that Ms C had 
been given incorrect  information. The correct position was that the ERC was due until April 
2019, and Halifax  suggested Ms C and Mr S waited until before selling the property to the 
relative. It also paid £550 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused by its mistakes.
Ms C and Mr S complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Ms C and Mr S were 
aware that the ERC would be charged when they repaid the mortgage  early, and they 
couldve delayed doing so. He thought the £550 compensation paid was fair and reasonable.
Ms C and Mr S disagreed. They said as Halifax gave a mortgage  to their relative buying the 
property, it shouldve waived the ERC as it knew the relatives  offer ended in February 2019.  
The investigator considered the point, but ultimately  didnt change  her view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses for 
making a mistake,  but to put the consumer back into the position that they shouldve been in 
if the mistake hadnt been made.
In this case, Halifax is legally entitled to the ERC as it was clearly  set out in the mortgage 
offer Ms C and Mr S accepted and they were  aware  of it. If Ms C hadnt  been given the 
incorrect information, the ERC still wouldve  been due. 
And its irrelevant that another person was taking out a mortgage with Halifax to buy the 
property, or that if the correct information had been  given, the relative wouldve got a 
different mortgage   Im only able to deal with Ms C and Mr S, though I note that the relative 
applied for a mortgage before the incorrect information was given. And theres obvious  data 
protection issues if Halifax had acted as Ms C and Mr S argue that it shouldve; the relatives 
mortgage position is nothing to do with other  customers.
Ref: DRN00709732Its relevant to note that the correct  information  was given to Ms C and Mr S before 
completion. The final response letter was sent in January 2019 and before this, Halifax told 
Ms C and Mr S that the ERC would be charged (which is why the complaint was made).  
When the final response letter was sent,  the mortgage hadnt been paid off early.  And as the 
sale of the property was to the relative  (who appears  to have been  able to wait and was 
already living in the property), it was Ms C and Mr Ss choice to go ahead, knowing that the 
ERC would be charged. It was possible for the relative to ask for her mortgage  offer to be 
extended or get a new one in any event.  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for the 
ERC to be refunded in all the circumstances.
But Halifax  did make  an error and its right that compensation for the trouble  and upset be 
paid. £550 has already  been paid. Money  never  truly compensates for trouble and upset 
suffered, but £550 is in my view fair and reasonable in light of the evidence  available  to me 
to compensate for the raised expectations  and poor service. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 29 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0070973