K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs  decision  to decline his contents insurance  
claim for clothes damaged by a leak.
background
Mr S had contents insurance with AXA and made a claim following a leak which  came  from 
the flat above  and which damaged some  clothes in his wardrobe.  Mr S contacted AXA on  
1 September 2017 to tell it about the leak, and to make the claim. AXA appointed  loss 
adjusters who attended  to inspect the damage  on 5 September 2017.
Mr S gave AXA photographs of the clothes and some receipts  as evidence of his ownership 
of the items hed claimed for, but AXA declined his claim. It said hed been told he could bag 
up the affected items due to the smell,  but had been  advised not to dispose of them.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and so he complained to AXA about its decision to decline the claim. 
He also complained about its handling  of the claim.
AXA confirmed the claim had been declined because  of Mr Ss failure to comply with the 
policy terms. It said hed been told to keep the clothing in a bag and cited the policy terms 
which stated you must not dispose of any damaged  items or conduct permanent  repairs 
because we may need to inspect the damage.  
Regarding its handling of the claim, AXA didnt accept thered been unreasonable delays. 
But it acknowledged  the time Mr S had spent gathering details  about the clothing and 
replacement costs and offered  to pay him £50 compensation.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. He was satisfied AXAs decision 
to decline the claim  was fair, noting the loss adjuster had attended Mr Ss address within  four 
days of the leak and so it wasnt unreasonable to expect him to have kept the damaged  
clothes. He commented that hed considered  the evidence Mr S had produced  in support of 
his ownership of the items, but also noted  the fact the items had been  thrown  away meant  
the loss adjuster had been  unable to assess whether the items  were actually ruined.
However, our investigator felt AXA should  pay more compensation  for the trouble and upset 
it had caused  Mr S. He noted hed been  asked for proof  of ownership of the clothes, despite 
the claim having already been  declined. And he felt that the £50 compensation AXA had 
already offered wasnt sufficient, recommending that it be increased  to £150.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with the outcome of his complaint and has asked for it to be considered  
by an ombudsman. He maintains he was told by the loss adjuster he didnt need to keep the 
damaged clothes as he could  see the leak and all the other clothes  that hadnt been  
damaged. He also argues there  were  two reports from the loss adjusters and that the first 
one had recommended  that the claim should be settled. He also said AXA told him he 
needed to provide evidence of ownership  but that it didnt  mention the disposal of the 
clothes. 
AXA also commented  on what  our investigator had said.  It said that contact  and visits were  
all made within reasonable timescales and so it didnt agree that £150 compensation was 
justified. It also stated  that although Mr S was asked to make  a list, he was also advised  not 
to dispose of the clothing, and it was that which led it to the decline the claim. 
Ref: DRN09199672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same outcome as 
our solicitor  for broadly the same reasons.
I havent seen  any evidence to support Mr Ss assertion  that he was told by the loss adjuster 
that he didnt need to keep the clothes. But, I think this is most unlikely. Mr S is right that the 
loss adjuster produced two reports, but they dont recommend that AXA should pay for the 
clothes. AXA accepts  Mr S was told hed need to provide evidence of ownership,  but that 
this was alongside the need not to dispose of the clothes. 
AXAs said that Mr S was told not to dispose of the items when he first contacted it to make  
the claim,  but I havent seen any evidence  of this. However, Im satisfied that the policy 
clearly states you must not dispose of any damaged  items or conduct permanent repairs  
because we may need to inspect the damage  and I accept that in disposing  of the clothes, 
Mr S had failed to comply  with this.
Mr S has produced a photograph of the clothes. But the fact he disposed of them  means 
AXAs been  prevented from examining  them, not only to verify their existence  and value but 
also to confirm whether  or not they could be salvaged. For this reason, and the fact Im 
satisfied that Mr S did fail to comply with the terms of the policy,  Im satisfied  that AXAs 
decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable.
compensation
Mr S has said that he had to pay increased electricity costs,  but he hasnt produced  any 
evidence in support  of this and the loss adjusters report states that no drying was required.  
However, Ive considered  whether Mr S is due any compensation and Im satisfied that he is. 
AXA declined the claim on the basis of Mr Ss failure  to retain  the clothing he was claiming 
for. But it asked him to provide  further information about  the items to validate the claim and 
this turned out to be pointless  in the absence of the items being available  for inspection. I 
accept Mr S was inconvenienced unnecessarily and I agree with our investigator that £150 
more appropriately  reflects  the impact this had. 
Ref: DRN09199673my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct .AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr S £150 
compensation. This is to be paid within 28 days of the date on which  we tell AXA Insurance 
UK Plc Mr S accepts my final decision (if he does).  If it pays  later than this then interest* will 
have to be added to the unpaid amount  from the date of my final decision until settlement is 
made. 
* If AXA insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from this interest, it should  tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0919967