K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they asked  National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) to close 
their packaged bank account  but NatWest did not do so, so theyve paid monthly  fees for an 
account they didnt want to keep.
background
Mr and Mrs M contacted NatWest about their packaged bank account in May 2018 to 
complain that it was mis-sold to them in 2008.  They say they wanted  the account  closed  at 
that time,  but they say NatWest left it open  and kept charging them  fees.
Our adjudicator investigated this and upheld  their complaint but decided  that the request for 
the account to be closed  was made  in June 2019,  and recommended  that all fees from that 
date be returned  to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this outcome and so the matter  has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
To be clear, this decision is not about  the sale of the account in 2008,  as this has been 
determined to be out of this services  jurisdiction by another ombudsman and I am not 
allowed to consider that again.
The issue  Im considering is whether Mr and Mrs M asked for their account to be closed and 
whether NatWest failed  to do so resulting in them incurring  a financial loss.
Ive decided that I dont agree with their complaint  that NatWest should  have closed  their 
account in May 2018, but I do uphold  their complaint that it should have been closed from 
June 2019 and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at all the correspondence that both parties have  supplied.  Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr and Mrs M specifically asked NatWest to close  their account  before June 
2019. But I do think the email they sent on June 2019 is a specific request and that Nat West 
should have acted on it. I note that NatWest has now accepted  this and made an offer to 
return the fees with interest from June 2019.
Mr and Mrs M argue that it should have been self-evident to NatWest from their complaint  in 
May 2018 that they didnt  want  the account  and therefore wanted  it closed. However,  I have 
seen many complaints  about packaged  bank  accounts where the consumer is unhappy with 
the sale of the account and how it is operating at the time of the complaint, but they do not 
want or ask for the account to be closed. I would not expect any bank or financial institution 
to close an account  without a specific instruction from a consumer to do so. And Ive not 
seen any evidence that such an instruction was given before June 2019.
Ref: DRN01439262So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, I cant  say that NatWest did 
anything wrong  until it failed to act on their written request  of June 2019, and that is why I 
uphold their complaint  from that time.
putting things right
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the packaged bank account 
from June 2019.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
National Westminster Bank may deduct  the fees it credited to Mr and Mrs M in April 2019 
from the amount  it pays them   but only after it has calculated  the two points above. 
National Westminster Bank must  explain clearly  and simply to Mr and Mrs M how it has 
worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  National Westminster Bank  to take off tax from this interest. 
National Westminster Bank must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to put things  right as Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0143926