K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the settlement they received from Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA)  for their home insurance  claim for damage caused by a water leak in 
their bathroom. They  also complain that RSA wont pay for all the bathroom tiles in their 
bathroom to be replaced.  
background
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs O were having  their bathroom floor tiles replaced when their 
contractor discovered a leak from the waste pipe beneath their bath. Mr O phoned RSA to 
ask whether the damage was something his policy covered. He was told it was. He told RSA 
he was in the process of obtaining quotes from contractors which he said hed send to RSA 
along with some photos. 
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs O let RSA know theyd discovered some  further  damage to 
their hallway ceiling caused by the leak which was still ongoing. They  said theyd had two 
quotes from contractors  to fix the leak and carry out the repairs but they varied in price  and 
included uninsured works.
RSA appointed a surveyor to attend the property  and inspect  the damage. The surveyor  
reported that the chipboard floor beneath  the bath would need replacing and that the 
bathroom suite would need to be removed  and refitted to allow  this to happen. The surveyor  
thought that two rows of tiles around the top of the bath would need to be removed and 
replaced. The surveyor made no allowance for the floor tiles because Mr and Mrs O were 
already in the process of replacing them so they didnt form part of the insured loss. Finally  it 
was noted that the hallway needed redecoration.  
The surveyor arranged for a contractor to report on the presence of asbestos. Whilst the 
surveyor was waiting  for the report to arrive the scope of works was costed and sent to RSA 
for approval.  In February the surveyor told Mr and Mrs O that it was happy  to appoint its 
contractor to carry out the scoped repairs. Mr and Mrs O declined the offer and said they 
would prefer a cash settlement. The surveyor cash settled the claim based on its scoped  
works for £1,498.61 (from which I understand it deducted the policy excess of £300). 
Mr and Mrs O told RSA they were unhappy because there was a big shortfall between what 
their contractors had quoted to do the works and what RSA had offered as a settlement. 
RSA reviewed its file but didnt increase  its offer although it did say it was still prepared to 
instruct its own contractors to do the repairs. 
Mr and Mrs O complained  to this service. As well as saying they were unhappy about  the 
amount theyd been offered to settle  the claim they also said they were unhappy that not all 
the bathroom tiles were  going to be replaced. They said it wouldnt look right to have new 
tiles alongside  old ones. So they said that RSA shouldve paid to replace all of them.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and asked RSA about the tiles. It said 
Mr and Mrs O hadnt  previously raised the matter with the surveyor and that they hadnt 
selected the optional matching sets cover  available with their policy.  Our investigator issued 
his opinion but didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld.  He said RSAs settlement 
offer complied with the policy terms as it was allowed to cash settle  claims based  on the 
rates its own contractors charged. And he didnt think RSA should  contribute  to the cost of 
replacing all the tiles because itd been  possible to source matching ones. 
Ref: DRN07129342Mr and Mrs O disagreed  with our investigator  and they queried  why no allowance had been 
made in the settlement for the payment of VAT.  And they said they couldnt complete the 
works needed for the amount RSA was offering.  Our investigator looked into what  
Mr and Mrs O had said. He said hed reviewed  the scope of works and said it seemed 
reasonable and he said RSA had confirmed it was willing to pay VAT on the settlement 
amount upon  production of an invoice  showing  they had had to pay it to their contractor. 
Mr and Mrs O remained  unhappy. They said the settlement figure should be based  on the 
rates their own contractors could  do the work for and it wasnt  fair for RSA to use the 
preferential rates it could  obtain from its own contractors.  They said they wanted  to use their 
own contractors because  of the issue with the wall tiles. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether RSA has treated Mr and Mrs O fairly and reasonably  in the way 
that it has settled their claim and I think that it has; Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions form the basis of the contract  between  Mr and Mrs O and 
RSA. They  set out what damage is covered  and how RSA will settle claims. I can see that 
Mr and Mrs Os policy covers them for damage caused by an escape of water.  I can also see 
that theres a clause  about RSAs liability where  repairs are needed. That clause says that 
where repairs are carried out it will either  pay for the cost of the work as if it was carried  out 
by its own nominated contractor or the cost of the work based on the most  competitive 
estimate the policyholder can produce whichever  is the lower.
That is the extent  of RSAs liability. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O feel strongly that that isnt 
fair because  the amount they are being  offered  isnt enough for them to fully pay for their 
own nominated  contractor to do the work.  But I cant fairly make RSA settle  their claim based 
on the cost of their contractors quote  where the policy  terms dont require it to. That wouldnt 
be reasonable. 
Ive looked at the scope  of works and Ive read the surveyors  report of the damage. Having 
done so Im satisfied  that RSA has identified the full extent of the repair works needed and 
scoped and costed for them accordingly. Insurers typically are able to negotiate  preferential  
rates with contractors and suppliers.  Such rates arent usually available to consumers. So 
whilst I appreciate that there is a difference between what RSA has offered and what  
Mr and Mrs Os contractors have quoted for, I cant reasonably require it to pay them  
anymore. 
I note that both RSA and the surveyor offered Mr and Mrs O the option of using  RSAs  
nominated contractor but they have declined to do so. That being the case, the policy  terms 
set out the basis  of any cash  settlement  and Im satisfied that RSA has fairly applied  these  
terms to Mr and Mrs Os claim. 
Ref: DRN07129343Mr and Mrs O have said that they think RSA should pay to replace all the tiles in their 
bathroom because  the two new rows of new white tiles around the bath RSA has scoped for 
wouldnt look right against the older  white tiles above. 
Its an option under Mr and Mrs Os policy to pay for matching sets cover. That cover 
means RSA would pay the cost of replacing the whole matching set (even the undamaged 
parts) where part of the set is damaged by an insured event covered by the policy.  I can see 
that Mr and Mrs O didnt  choose this cover  as part of their policy so Im satisfied RSA has no 
liability to replace all the tiles in the bathroom.  
But regardless of whether a policy provides for matching sets cover or not, this service  
sometimes thinks its fair, where part of a matching  set is damaged  by an insured event, for 
an insurer to contribute  towards replacing the undamaged part so that a match  can be 
achieved. Typically we will recommend the insurer  pays 50% of the cost of replacing  the 
undamaged part of a set. But we can only fairly  require an insurer  to do that if matching  
replacements are unavailable  or if the closest available  replacement wouldnt achieve an 
acceptable match. But here the tiles in question can be matched.  I can see they are 
standard plain  square tiles that would be readily  available from any tile retailer.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs O say that the new tiles would stand out against the old. But I dont 
think, given the replacement  tiles are identical to the existing ones,  I can reasonably make 
RSA contribute  towards replacing the undamaged ones.  The tiles are capable of being 
matched and will, overtime, blend with the ones above. So Im not going to ask RSA to 
contribute towards paying for the undamaged tiles. 
RSA has said it will pay VAT at 20% on the cash settlement amount upon production of 
proof that Mr and Mrs O have had to pay it to their contractor. I think  thats fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0712934