K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds handling of his claim under a group 
private medical insurance policy  for osteopathy treatment which he believes led to a delay in 
him receiving that treatment and thus unnecessarily incurring a new excess.
background
Mr P was a member of a group private  medical insurance policy, held with BUPA.  The policy 
had a £100 excess which applied per member,  per year. The policy renewed on 1 April each 
year.
In September  2018, Mr P asked  BUPA to provide  cover for treatment sessions from his 
osteopath (who Ill call Mr T). BUPA provided authorisation for five sessions and advised  it 
would need a medical report if further  sessions were  needed.
In March 2019, Mr P contacted BUPA asking for authorisation of further sessions. BUPA 
said it would  need  a medical report from Mr T.
Mr P relayed  this information to Mr T who repeatedly tried to fax the medical report  to BUPA  
but without success.  Mr T also apparently tried to ring BUPA  on several occasions but 
couldnt get through.
On 5 April 2018,  Mr P contacted BUPA which advised that it had still not received a report 
from Mr T. In view of the fact that Mr P was in pain, it agreed to authorise a further  session of 
osteopathy as a gesture of goodwill, though because this was now a new policy year Mr P 
would need to pay another excess.
On 9 April 2019,  Mr T spoke to BUPA and discovered the fax number  printed  on its forms 
had changed some time ago, which was why his attempts  at sending his report had been 
unsuccessful.
When Mr P learned of this, he complained to BUPA. He felt that BUPA  should  have  advised  
Mr T of the new fax number. He said if this had been  done, the report would have been 
received in good time and he would  have been  able to receive  his necessary treatment 
without suffering a further excess. He said the delay in receiving treatment  had caused  him 
to suffer  additional  injury to his back.
BUPA didnt  uphold  his complaint. It said that when it changed its fax number,  it notified  all 
those treatment providers  which  would be affected. It also updated its fax number on its 
online portal to which  Mr T would have had access  as this was where its forms were 
downloaded and to where Mr T would send payment requests. It said it also printed an email  
address and telephone  number on its report forms as alternative  ways of getting  in contact. It 
therefore considered  that it had taken reasonable steps to make  Mr T aware of the new fax 
number.
Mr P was unhappy at BUPAs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  
BUPA had acted  reasonably.
Ref: DRN06309112Mr P didnt accept the investigators recommendation.  He questioned whether BUPA had 
indeed written to Mr T to tell him of the change in fax number. He said he understood that 
Mr T preferred paper communication to email  and had also tried to call BUPA  several times 
but had been unable  to get through. Mr P thought  that BUPA should have done more to try 
and get the report from Mr T and that, if it had done so, he would have been able to receive 
his required treatment before the end of March  2019.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
After it had authorised  five sessions of osteopathy in September  2018, BUPA has no record  
of any contact from either Mr P or Mr T until Mr P contacted it on 19 March 2019. BUPA then 
advised Mr P that if he wanted further  treatment  sessions, it would need a report from Mr T. 
I consider this to be reasonable  and it is consistent  with what  it advised  Mr P in September  
2018. It gave Mr P an email address to which  the report could be sent.
BUPA did not hear from either Mr P or Mr T until Mr P called it again on 5 April 2019. By this 
time, the new policy year had begun and so any claim  would be subject to a new excess.
It is unfortunate that Mr T had been trying to fax his report to an out-of-date number. 
However, BUPA has said that it wrote to its service providers to notify them of the change in 
number at the time it occurred and, while I havent  seen  a copy of this letter, I think it likely 
that such a letter was sent.
In any case, if Mr T had been trying without success to send a fax on this number for so 
long, I would have  expected him to have  either  contacted BUPA to double-check the number 
or send  the report by other means. I note that Mr T apparently said he couldnt get hold of 
BUPA by telephone but I have no reason  to assume  its telephone  line wasnt working  so I 
presume that what  he means is that he chose to hang up rather  than wait to speak to 
someone who could  have helped him. I note that he could also have obtained  the correct 
number by visiting the online portal.
Mr P thinks  BUPA could  have been more proactive in obtaining the report from Mr T. 
However, Im satisfied that there  were  various options open to Mr T if he found that he was 
unable to send  his report to the fax number printed on the form and I think he should have 
made more  effort  to avail himself of these options.  I also think  that, given his concern about  
the end of March  deadline, it was open to Mr P to obtain the report directly from Mr T and 
pass this to BUPA.  
Overall, while  I recognise that Mr P will have been  frustrated by the course  of events,  I think 
BUPA has acted fairly. I consider that BUPA cant reasonably be held responsible for the 
fact that it received no medical report before the end of the policy  year.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN06309113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0630911