K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited failed to make  an appropriate 
emergency repair when  he made  a claim on his home emergency cover.
background
Mr S had home emergency  cover with Admiral.  In March 2019  he experienced a problem  
with blockages in his upstairs  and downstairs toilets that appeared to be causing  a leak.  He 
reported it to Admiral under the home emergency cover and it sent an engineer out the same  
day. The engineer carried out a high pressure jetting  from an access  chamber outside the 
property and this cleared  the blockage. The problem appeared to be resolved.
However the following day Mr S called  Admiral again to say that the leak had continued 
overnight and had now damaged the floor and ceiling. 
Admiral sent another engineer out that day. They inspected the toilets and found  hairline 
cracks in both, which was causing the leaks. The engineer suggested the cracks may have 
been caused by the strong acid cleaner Mr S had been using to try and clear the previous 
blockage. They carried out a fix to ensure one of the toilets  was usable and the leak 
stopped. 
Admiral confirmed replacement toilets wouldnt be covered under the home  emergency  
cover. Mr S was unhappy with this as he said the hairline cracks had been  caused by the 
engineer on the first visit, so Admiral should  pay for the damage they had caused. He also 
produced a letter form the company  that make the acid cleaner stating the product wouldnt 
cause hairline cracks if used properly.  He made  a complaint to Admiral.
Admiral didnt uphold  his complaint. It said that as the fix carried out by the first engineer  was 
done externally,  this couldnt have caused the cracks. Admiral suggested they may have 
been caused by other  manual methods  Mr S used to try and clear  the blockage, such  as a 
plunger. It said replacement toilets wouldnt be covered under the home emergency cover.
Mr S didnt think this was fair as he said Admirals engineer had also failed to identify the 
cracks in the first visit which meant  the leak continued and caused  further  damage to his 
property. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend the complaint was upheld.  
He said he didnt think the cracks were caused  by Admirals engineers so it shouldnt have to 
pay for replacement toilets. Further, he said the first engineer provided a suitable fix that 
appeared to remedy  the problem so they fulfilled the terms of the cover.
Mr S didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Admiral and Mr S disagree on how the cracks  to the toilets  were caused,  I need to 
consider whether it is most likely that Admiral caused the damage.  I will also consider 
Ref: DRN01006032whether Admirals engineer carried out work in line with the home  emergency policy .And if 
Admiral treated Mr S fairly and reasonably while handling the home emergency claim.
First Ive considered what caused  the hairline cracks. Mr S and Admiral have provided 
different explanations.  However there is little evidence to support either. So I have to 
consider what is most likely. I have looked at the notes from Admirals engineer and the 
subsequent emails. The engineer confirmed that the only fix he carried out during the first 
visit was high pressure  water jetting. This is a common  method  used  to unblock drains and 
involves jetting water  into the pipes at a high pressure, in order to move anything  blocking 
them. The engineer has also confirmed the procedure was carried out through  an external 
access point. Based on this I dont  think it is feasible that Admirals engineer caused the 
cracks to the toilets, as he didnt carry out any work directly  on the toilet, only through  
external pipes. 
There are other possible explanations  for the damage. If any were correct it still wouldnt 
mean Admiral was responsible, so wouldnt change the outcome of my decision. So I havent 
considered them. 
Mr S says that if Admirals  engineer  didnt cause the cracks,  then they were  present  when  
the first engineer  visited, so he should have  identified them. He says the fact he didnt, led to 
further damage to his house which Admiral should pay for. I agree that it seems likely the 
cracks were present when the first engineer visited. Therefore its likely that he did miss the 
main cause of the leak. 
However the engineer carried out a fix that cleared the blockage  in the toilets. This had been 
the primary complaint  raised by Mr S and, at the time, and was assumed to be causing the 
leak. As the work fixed  the blockage, I think it was reasonable for the engineer to conclude 
he had been successful at fixing the leak as well. Mr S didnt raise any concerns that the 
engineer hadnt fixed  the leak at the time,  so it seems that was a fair conclusion  for the 
engineer to reach. So the engineer would have reasonably seen no reason to carry out 
further investigations.
Ive considered the cover provided  by the home emergency policy.  It describes the cover as 
follows:
This cover meets the demands and needs of persons wishing to ensure that in the event
of an emergency  in their home, the cover  they receive will help to arrange and pay for
work to be carried out to make a temporary repair of the damage caused by specified
events occurring within their property.
I think the work carried out by the first engineer met this description. It provided a temporary  
fix that seemed  to solve the problem at the time. When Mr S called the following day to say 
the leak had worsened overnight, Admiral  sent another  engineer within  hours of the call. This 
engineer identified the problem causing the leak and, again, provided  a temporary fix. So I 
am satisfied  that Admiral  fulfilled the terms of the home emergency cover and has therefore 
treated Mr S fairly and reasonably.
For these reasons I think it is most likely  the cracks in the toilets  werent caused by the first 
engineer. Further  I am satisfied that Admiral fulfilled  the terms of the policy and provided  
reasonable temporary fixes of the problems presented to them. I therefore think  Admiral  
have treated Mr S fairly and reasonably while handling his claim so I wont be asking  them to 
do anything differently. 
Ref: DRN01006033my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont require Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited  to take any 
further action  or do anything differently.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.  
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0100603