K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that a vehicle he leased  via Marshall Management Services Ltd (trading as
Gateway2Lease (G2L))  wasnt fit for the purpose hed leased it for, and that he had been
misled in that he expected the vehicle  would be provided with a lockable boot lid and a free
load liner. Mr N also complains  that he wasnt informed about his cancellation  rights.
background
Mr N runs his own business as a sole trader. He wanted to lease a vehicle for both business
and social  use. In October 2018  he visited the G2L website and enquired  about  a particular
make and model of pick-up truck advertised  on the website.  Mr N says he saw mainly
images of the front of the vehicle.
Mr N received an email providing the details of an agent who would assist with his query. A
separate email  was then received from the agent saying that they would be able to offer a
significant discount on this particular model of pickup and that a free load liner would also be
supplied with the vehicle. This email informed Mr N that these vehicles were expected to
move quickly  and there were only three left, so if he was keen  to arrange to lease one of
them, to let the agent know so one could be reserved for him.
Mr N says he wasnt entirely  sure at first what a load liner was but noted  this was being
offered for free. He says he thought G2L was referring  to a lockable boot lid and cover  which
he felt was essential to have to store and secure  his work tools. Mr N says he only realised
that the load liner was something  separate when  he visited  a local dealership  after the
vehicle was delivered and was shown  photos of a load liner and lockable boot cover.
Mr N asked the agent to send  through  a quote which was sent a few days  later.  The quote
stated that the maintained rental would be set at a particular amount. It doesnt appear  that
the agent gave a description of the vehicle to Mr N.
The advert for the vehicle that Mr N had viewed  online mentioned that it was an automatic
diesel model, with leather seats and parking  sensors.  However, there was no mention of a
lockable boot lid. Mr N says he mainly  looked  at the front of the vehicle as shown in the
picture on G2Ls website  before deciding to proceed  with its hire, and it wasnt obvious to
him that it didnt come  with a lockable boot lid.
Mr N says the agent did not enquire  about  why he needed the vehicle to determine  its
suitability and should have done so as it was imperative that he could store and lock his
work tools away. Mr N does though  accept  that he didnt say to G2L that he required a boot
box or lockable lid.
Mr N agreed the quote and ordered the pick-up  truck which  was delivered to him in
November 2018.  On delivery of the vehicle,  Mr N noted that it didnt come with a load liner,
nor did it have a lockable  lid or boot box. Mr N says that he questioned this, but the delivery
driver told him he could  acquire a cheap load liner from the internet.
Mr N completed  the acceptance  note and the vehicle was left in his possession.  Mr N says
there wasnt anywhere on this note to complain about the missing  lockable lid and load liner,
so he sent an email to G2L on the same  day complaining that the vehicle wasnt useable  as
he wouldnt  be able to securely keep his tools in it.
Ref: DRN09586432G2L responded that Mr N would need to seek permission from the finance company, who Ill 
refer to as A to add these items now, and that he would need to remove  them and put right 
any damage caused by adding  them when  it was time to return the vehicle.
Mr N complained to G2L that the vehicle  wasnt fit for purpose. G2L didnt  uphold  Mr Ns
complaint. It said the load liner wasnt a standard item that came with this model and the
vehicle had been delivered  in accordance  with the completed order  form. G2L said it was the
customers responsibility to check what is ordered  will meet their needs and this was set out
in its terms and conditions. G2L said it didnt make  recommendations or provide advice.
Mr N was unhappy with the response from G2L and complained to this service. He said that
the pick-up truck without a lockable lid wasnt fit for business purposes as he couldnt carry
around tools. He said that the load liner was also needed to protect  the vehicle from damage
when carrying items.  Mr N said that G2L should  have provided  information about what the
vehicle had as standard  or informed  him that these items were optional extras.
Mr N said he had been misled about  the suitability of the vehicle for his purposes.  Mr N said
he wanted to cancel the lease, have his payments reimbursed and return  the vehicle.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. She said there
was no face to face contact with G2L and all contact was via emails  or online.
Our adjudicator said that the order form stated  that a standard model of this pick-up  truck
had been ordered and the website also said that the vehicle had standard  specification. 
There was no mention of a lockable  lid or load liner being included.  She said she contacted 
the manufacturer who had confirmed these items didnt come  as standard but were  optional
extras.
Our adjudicator said that there didnt appear to be an option  to add these items to the order
form. However, although she appreciated that G2L hadnt raised  these items as being
optional with Mr N, neither had he raised  them as being important to his decision to lease the
vehicle. She said the onus was on Mr N to inform G2L of his needs  and to check  that the
vehicle he had ordered was suitable. And she had that it was unreasonable to expect the
business to understand the needs  of the customer if it wasnt  told of any additional
requirements by that customer.
Our adjudicator said that G2L had acknowledged that it hadnt provided Mr N with a load
liner having said this would be supplied free of charge.  It was therefore offering £100
towards the cost of acquiring one. She said she thought this was fair in the circumstances as
Mr N hadnt made G2L aware of his need for a lockable  boot lid, even though  she accepted
that G2L hadnt asked relevant questions about  his needs during the sales process.
Mr N disagreed with the view of our adjudicator.  He said the offer of the £100 towards the
load liner was unacceptable. Having made  his own enquiries with the manufacturer, he had
ascertained that it would cost £2,000 for boot protection to be fitted  professionally  and for the
vehicle to be made fit for purpose.
Mr N says his order  was clearly on a trader basis and therefore  this vehicle wasnt fit for
purpose and he had been unable  to use it. He says the salesperson  should have asked
relevant questions about what  was required.
Ref: DRN09586433Mr N says that there was nowhere online to select boot protection  options  and it wasnt
highlighted that these items didnt come as standard. He says that G2L should have known
what the vehicle  came with as standard and advised him accordingly.
Mr N also queries whether G2L should  have  advised  him about his right to cancel the lease
and questions whether he had the right to do so within 14 days.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2021, in which I said,  in summary, that I was 
satisfied that we were  able to consider the part of Mr Ns complaint about G2L not providing 
him with a free load liner.  I noted that Mr N said that G2L told him that the vehicle would be
supplied with a load  liner free of charge. And I could see that G2L sent Mr N an e-mail on 
10 October 2018 saying  that they would  provide  a free load liner in the back of the truck.
So, I was satisfied that provision of the load liner formed part of the negotiations between 
G2L and Mr N, and that the provision of that information was in my view intrinsically  linked 
with G2Ls activity of credit broker as it was part and parcel  of facilitating  the introduction to 
the finance company with whom Mr N took out a regulated hire agreement  for the vehicle.
I also mentioned that the part of Mr Ns complaint about G2L ensuring that the vehicle came 
with a lockable lid or boot box wasnt one that I was able to consider. I said this because  I 
wasnt satisfied that G2L,  as a credit broker, was required to make  its own enquiries into 
what Mr Ns needs were  in relation to the vehicle.  Making such enquiries  could not be said to 
be part and parcel of the activity of credit broking or connected to it. 
I then turned to the other parts of Mr Ns complaint, where I said the following: 
suitability of the vehicle
Mr N feels that, if G2L wasnt obliged to make  its own enquires into why he needed 
the vehicle, they still shouldnt have  allowed the deal to go through as the vehicle 
clearly wasnt  suitable  for business use. Im afraid  I disagree with this.
I accept that Mr N feels that the vehicle wasnt suitable for his intended purpose, 
namely that he wanted to lock his tools away and ensure the vehicle wasnt damaged 
in doing so. But I dont think that means  that the vehicle itself could never be used for 
business purposes. That term obviously is very broad and there may be scenarios 
where the vehicle  can be used for business purposes. I think  the only likely  
possibility of the vehicle being identified as unsuitable specifically for Mr N would 
have been if he had either informed G2L what he needed it for or had G2L been 
obliged to make its own enquires into this. As Ive mentioned, I am not able to 
consider this second possibility. And Mr N has said that he didnt make G2L aware of 
why he needed  the vehicle and what he wanted  included with it.
I realise that Mr N says that the vehicle as shown on G2Ls  website didnt show the 
full images of the back of the vehicle.  But, Im afraid again I have to return to the 
same point Ive just made in that Mr N had the opportunity to enquire about the 
vehicles specification and any points he needed clarifying before deciding to go 
ahead. The images werent  a misrepresentation of the actual vehicle that was 
provided.
Ref: DRN09586434cancellation rights
Mr N has said that he asked G2L how he could return the vehicle once  he realised it 
wasnt suitable for him. And he says that G2L didnt respond to this.
As Mr N didnt  meet G2L face to face,  the contract he entered into was a distance  
contract. By that I mean the contract was negotiated and concluded via the exclusive 
use of distance  communication,  so phone, e-mail and online messaging.
Ive looked at the pre-contract information given to Mr N and the hire agreement he 
entered into. The pre-contract information says that Mr N had a right to cancel the 
hire agreement under the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and 
Additional Charges) Regulations  2013.
However, in order to cancel the agreement, Mr N needed to inform A of this decision 
and this had to be a clear  statement setting  this out. I note that Mr N says that he 
asked G2L of his right to return. I havent though seen  compelling evidence of this 
though. The e-mails that have been provided  to me between Mr N and G2L points 
more to Mr N asking  how he could  get the vehicle suitable for his needs  as he 
expected. I havent seen  evidence in these emails (or anywhere else for that matter)  
that Mr N expressed an intention to cancel the agreement or enquire about  this 
possibility. And I wouldnt  necessarily have expected G2L to have reminded Mr N 
about his cancellation rights with A unless  Mr N had made this clear. I dont though 
think that Mr N did make this clear.
customer service
Mr N clearly feels that that G2Ls customer service after delivery of the vehicle left a 
lot to be desired.  However, G2L is only covered by our service for the regulated 
activity of credit broking.  We cant consider complaints about the things that G2L did 
once it carried out its credit broking activity. Its customer  service  during the course  of 
its credit  broking would  be something we could look into. But it had concluded this 
once it had arranged  for the hire agreement with A to be put in place. Mr N is 
complaining about customer service  that happened after that time and so we are not 
able to consider  this.
Mr N also mentioned that he would have expected A to have done more to assist 
him, and that it should still do so. That would though be something that Mr N needs 
to raise with A in the first instance. We may be able to investigate  that if Mr N 
subsequently isnt happy with As reply.  But I am unable to consider this currently as I 
am solely looking at Mr Ns complaint against G2L.
load liner offer
I note that Mr N feels that the £100  offer from G2L towards supplying  this wasnt  
sufficient. It seems to me that G2L offered  this as a goodwill  gesture rather  than an 
acceptance that this formed  part of the deal it brokered. However, as I have already 
mentioned, I am satisfied  that G2L did offer Mr N a free load liner as part of the 
negotiations. So, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint on that basis.  As such, I would 
ordinarily expect G2L to make good  that promise.
Ref: DRN09586435However, I doubt that provision of the load liner now is much  use because  the hire 
contract has now come to an end and the vehicle has been returned to A. If Mr N is 
able to show me evidence that he paid for a load liner to be fitted, then I would
likely ask G2L to reimburse  him that cost.  And if Mr N can show me that he was 
charged for damage  by A because a load liner wasnt fitted,  then I would also ask 
G2L to refund him that cost. I havent  seen evidence of either of these things up to 
this point, although Mr N is welcome  to provide  me with any evidence he has in 
response to my provisional  decision.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint, in that Mr N should  have been
provided with a load liner free of charge by G2L but wasnt. However,  I am currently 
minded not to make an award  as the hire agreement has now ended and the vehicle 
has been returned.
I invited Mr N and G2L to respond  to my provisional decision. G2L didnt respond.  Mr N 
responded saying,  in summary:
G2L did not show the back images  of the vehicle on its website, nor did it attempt to 
offer any resolution or reply to him about  his cancellation rights
The order form did not state that the vehicle was standard
G2Ls website did not offer a load liner or lockable boot as optional  extras
The vehicle wasnt suitable  for use and offering no compensation for this isnt 
reasonable
Our adjudicator accepted that G2L didnt ask relevant questions  about his needs  
during the sales  process
G2L should have provided him with information about his cancellation  rights
The finance company would not put any options for him in writing as we were 
investigating the complaint against G2L
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, having done so, I wont be 
changing the outcome as outlined in my provisional decision.
I do appreciate that Mr N remains unhappy with what  has happened and also with what  I 
said in my provisional decision. However, Ive not seen anything further that would make me 
change my opinion.  
Mr N says that G2L didnt  show the rear part of the vehicle  on its website. However, I dont 
agree that this amounts  to a misrepresentation of how the vehicle  looked  in real life. Mr N 
also had the opportunity to ask questions about the vehicle to assess whether it was suitable 
for him before agreeing to hire it. And Ive mentioned  previously that we arent able to 
consider Mr Ns complaint  that G2L should  have asked him specific  questions to assess 
whether or not the vehicle  was suitable  for him. 
Ref: DRN09586436I agree  with Mr N that the order form didnt say that this vehicle was standard for that make 
and model. However,  our adjudicator  contacted  the manufacturer of the vehicle who said 
that this make and model came with an open  back as standard.  So G2L didnt misrepresent 
this position. G2L also didnt, as Mr N points  out, offer the load liner and lockable boot lid as 
optional extras. But Mr N did have the option  of asking G2L about this. If G2L had said for 
example that this wasnt an option,  Mr N may have  changed his mind  about hiring the 
vehicle. And I havent seen that he asked G2L about this and they gave wrong  information.  
I also dont think that G2L provided Mr N with information about the vehicle that showed  that 
it wasnt suitable for his use. This comes  down again to whether or not G2L was obligated to 
specifically enquire  what Mr N required from the vehicle. And, as Ive already mentioned, we 
arent able to consider this part of Mr Ns complaint. 
Mr N did have cancellation rights  and this would have allowed him to effectively walk away  
from the proposed  arrangement, including the hire agreement he entered  into with A. I 
realise that Mr N feels that G2L should  have  told him about these rights. I havent though  
seen that Mr N made it reasonably clear to G2L that he wanted to cancel. It seems more that 
he wanted G2L to arrange  for the vehicle to be fitted  as he wanted.  So, I dont think that G2L 
should have inferred that Mr N wanted  to cancel and so should have gave him information  
about this. It would have been  different had Mr N made this clear  to G2L. But I dont think  he 
did. 
I note that Mr N has complained to A and is awaiting their reply. I gather  they told Mr N that 
they wouldnt be looking to offer anything to help him while his complaint against G2L was 
being investigated here. That will be something that Mr N should take up with A initially. He 
can if he wishes refer his complaint about  A to us once he receives a reply from them or if 
eight weeks have elapsed  with no response. 
Finally, I do understand  that Mr N feels it unfair  that Ive provisionally  decided not to award 
him compensation for G2L offering him a free load liner,  and not providing it. And that our 
service hasnt helped  by taking so long to investigate his complaint. I think though that the 
premise of Mr Ns complaint is about not being provided with a vehicle that was fit for his 
intended purpose. I suspect that, had G2L provided  him with the free load liner,  this wouldnt 
have been enough if he couldnt  use the vehicle without a lockable boot lid. So, while I agree  
that G2L should have  provided him with the free load liner, I dont think this makes a 
particular difference  to what Mr Ns complaint really is about.  And as Mr N has now handed 
the vehicle back, theres  no real purpose in directing G2L to cover the cost of this (or provide 
the load liner). 
So, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint, in 
that Mr N should  have been provided with a load liner free of charge by G2L but wasnt.  
However, I make no award  as the hire agreement has now ended  and the vehicle has been 
returned. I do not uphold any other part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09586437my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  in that Mr N should have  been provided with a load liner free of 
charge by G2L but wasnt. However, I will not make an award for the reasons Ive given.  I do 
not uphold any other  part of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0958643