K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that a cheque  they issued from their Clydesdale  Bank Plc account 
was returned unpaid due to poor image  quality. They also complain when  Clydesdale  Bank 
Plc wrote to them to explain the cheque had been returned unpaid  there was no contact 
telephone number on the letter.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  a joint account  with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank. In 
March 2019 they issued  a cheque from their Yorkshire Bank account to an account they hold 
with a building society (Building Society).
Soon after issuing the cheque they received a letter from both businesses  to explain that the 
cheque couldnt  be cashed due to its poor image quality. Mr S was disappointed that the 
letter from Yorkshire Bank informing him of the problem didnt include a telephone  number  to 
enable him to discuss matters.
Mr S contacted his Building Society.  The Building  Society explained that the cheque  
included an image.  When the cheque was scanned the image presented  darker and 
obscured what theyd  written on the cheque.
Mr S also contacted Yorkshire Bank. He found their phone service  was impersonal and unhelpful. 
Yorkshire Bank phoned him back and said the fault lay with the Building  Society.  It said the 
Building Society should photograph cheques rather than scan them   and this would avoid 
the problem of the image obscuring  the writing on the cheque.
Mr S fed this back to the Building Society.  The Building Society said their systems didnt 
allow cheques to be photographed. But they suggested that Mr and Mrs S could ask 
Yorkshire Bank to provide  them with a cheque book compliant with the cheque imaging 
system. Mr S says Yorkshire Bank  told him this wasnt  possible.  The Building Society also 
suggested they could issue cheques by writing outside the area covered by the image. Mr 
and Mrs S did this and the cheque was accepted.
Mr and Mrs S dont  want to adopt  this method  of writing cheques  generally. As a result of 
the current situation Mr and Mrs S say they have money in their Yorkshire Bank account 
that they feel unable to invest. Theyd like our service to ensure theyre able to pay 
cheques between their accounts as they normally would.
Unhappy with the impasse Mr and Mrs S referred  their complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator explained that our service cant impose  procedural changes on businesses or 
undertake general  reviews of their practices.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr S had 
confirmed that hed paid other cheques in from his Yorkshire Bank account including some  
to the Building  Society so he didnt think the fault was clearly  attributable  to Yorkshire 
Bank. He also noted that the Building  Society had offered reasonable alternatives to 
enable Mr and Mrs S to pay in cheques in the future.
Mr and Mrs S disagree with the investigators view. They think they shouldnt have to write 
a cheque in a different way so theyve  asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN06790332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must firstly explain that Im only looking at the actions of Yorkshire Bank here. Ive given 
details of the Building Societys involvement to provide some context but nothing in this 
decision is binding on the Building Society.
I must also explain  that we resolve  complaints by customers about financial businesses by 
looking at what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But we have no 
regulatory or disciplinary  role over those businesses. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority as regulator.
For the purposes of this complaint this means that although Mr S found Yorkshire Banks 
telephone system to be impersonal and unhelpful I cant ask them  to change this. And I cant  
require Yorkshire Bank to include  a contact telephone number on its customer  letters or 
require it to remove images from its cheques or require that their cheques are compliant with 
scanning systems of other financial businesses.
What I have to think about here is what is a fair and reasonable resolution of Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint taking into account the impact the problem had on them.
Mr S explained to us that hes issued many cheques  in the past from his Yorkshire Bank 
account  including some  to his Building  Society account with no issue.  So I cant  say why 
the problem occurred this time.
I realise Mr and Mrs S would like to be able to pay in cheques  between  their accounts as 
they normally do but as Ive explained above  I cant require Yorkshire  Bank to change  the 
way it conducts  its business.
Mr and Mrs S are clearly unhappy about issuing cheques by writing outside the area covered 
by the image.  But although the problem has caused  them some inconvenience  I cant say its 
had a significant impact  on them. I say this because Ive seen from a statement that the 
cheque appears  to have been reissued and successfully debited from their account.
I realise Mr and Mrs S are clearly  unhappy  about  issuing  cheques to their Building Society in 
an unconventional way but for the reasons  Ive explained this isnt something I can require 
Yorkshire Bank to change. I realise Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed by this decision but it 
brings to an end what we can do as an informal dispute resolution service  to resolve the 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019..
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0679033