K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1993.
This decision relates only to the sale of the PPI in 1993. Mr and Mrs F have also complained 
about another PPI policy sold to them in 1996.  That complaint is being  dealt  with under a 
different reference  number.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1993. At the same  time they were sold 
a PPI policy. The policy covered only Mr F against  not being  able to work due an accident,  
sickness or redundancy. In event of a successful claim the policy would have paid a monthly 
benefit equivalent to the mortgage repayment.  It couldve paid the monthly benefit for up to 
24 months for any one claim. The policy was free for the first 12 months after that the 
premium varied but was around £9.03  per month.
The policy was cancelled in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint was passed  to me.
In February 2019  I issued  my provisional  findings  on this complaint  and invited both parties 
to comment and send  me any additional evidence they wanted  me to think  about. A copy  of 
my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I wasnt intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, my 
main reasons were:
Mr and Mrs F told us their recollection  of the sale. They said,  It was in the package  
of this mortgage offer from the Nationwide  which included  the PPI and also buildings 
insurance and was made very plain to us both that for us to get this mortgage then 
we would have  to take the PPI insurance  and the buildings insurance which  is the 
only reason why we took this.
I agreed with Mr and Mrs F. The mortgage  they took out in 1993 was a mortgage 
package marketed by Nationwide called Home to Home.  The PPI was included  in 
the mortgage package and the premiums were  free for the first 12 months.
But I explained that doesnt  mean the PPI was mis-sold to them. If a PPI is sold as 
being compulsory  when it isnt, that would be a mis-sale. Or, if Mr and Mrs F had not 
been told about the PPI, that would be a mis-sale. But from what  Mr and Mrs F have 
told me, they were  told about  the PPI and it was made clear to them that the Home 
to Home mortgage package included the PPI. 
After so many years  I couldnt know what information Nationwide  gave about  the PPI. 
But looking at Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time I thought the policy seemed 
affordable and would likely have been  useful if Mr F couldnt work though ill-health or 
lost his job.
Nationwide has told us it has nothing  to add.
Ref: DRN01630982Mr and Mrs F disagreed with my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F have  reiterated that they were not given  a choice and went ahead  with the 
mortgage because  they wanted  the mortgage  but not the PPI. Theyve said the PPI was 
compulsory. Mr and Mrs F have  told us about the other means they could rely on to pay the 
mortgage if Mr F became  too unwell to work or lost his job.
Ive thought about this, and if Nationwide had included the PPI without telling Mr and Mrs F 
that would  be a reason to uphold this complaint.  Similarly if Nationwide  had told Mr and     
Mrs F that they had to take out PPI when they didnt, I would uphold  the complaint on that 
basis.
But it is clear from what  Mr and Mrs F had told us that Nationwide  informed them that the 
Home to Home  mortgage package included PPI.
If Mr and Mrs F didnt  want  the Home to Home mortgage that Nationwide  offered them,
because it had PPI included, they couldve asked  Nationwide for another mortgage product 
that didnt include  PPI. If Nationwide didnt have  another product to offer without PPI 
included they couldve approached another lender for their mortgage.  But Mr and Mrs F 
chose to go ahead with the Home to Home package knowing it included  PPI.
I dont know what information Mr and Mrs F were given by Nationwide  about the PPI policy. 
Its possible it could have  been clearer. But the policy  couldve paid out a monthly benefit for 
up to 24 months if Mr F could not work  or lost his job. And despite  Mr and Mrs Fs other  
resources I think they would have found the benefit to be useful if things went  wrong. And 
Ive not seen anything to make me think Mr F would have difficulty making  a claim. For 
example, he didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions or unusual  employment 
arrangements that may have been  excluded by the policy. And the policy itself was free for 
the first 12 months.
So even if Nationwide  had given  Mr and Mrs F full, clear details about the policy,  I dont think  
it would  have caused them to act differently and not apply for the Home to Home mortgage  
package.
Ref: DRN01630983my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint. And I dont  make any award against  Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01630984copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1993.
This decision relates only to the sale of the PPI in 1993. Mr and Mrs F have also complained 
about another PPI policy sold to them in 1996.  That complaint is being  dealt  with under a 
different reference  number.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1993. At the same  time they were sold 
a PPI policy. The policy covered only Mr F against  not being  able to work due an accident,  
sickness or redundancy. In event of a successful claim the policy would have paid a monthly 
benefit equivalent to the mortgage repayment.  It couldve paid the monthly benefit for up to 
24 months for any one claim. The policy was free for the first 12 months after that the 
premium varied but was around £9.03  per month.
The policy was cancelled in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to send  all the paperwork  from the time of the sale .This isnt 
unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took 
place. But where  there  is limited information,  I will make  my decision based  on whats more 
likely to have happened, taking into account   the evidence available, what  both parties  have 
told me and what we know about  these types of sale.
Mr and Mrs F have  told us their recollection  of the sale. They  said,  It was in the package  of 
this mortgage  offer from the Nationwide which included the PPI and also buildings insurance 
and was made very plain  to us both that for us to get this mortgage  then we would have to 
take the PPI insurance and the buildings insurance  which is the only reason why we took 
this.
In the early 1990s  Nationwide did market mortgage  packages that included  PPI and/or other 
insurance. Typically theyd give the borrower  a better  interest rate or be offered  to someone 
wanting to borrow  a higher than standard loan to value. And it looks likely to me that Mr and 
Mrs F applied for one of these mortgage  packages.
A PPI is mis-sold  if a consumer is mis-led into believing the PPI is compulsory when in fact it 
isnt, but thats  not what happened  here.
Ref: DRN01630985In this case the PPI was part of the mortgage  package called Home to Home,  that Mr and 
Mrs F were offered.  The PPI was included in the mortgage offer and the premiums were  free 
for the first 12 months. There is nothing wrong  with Nationwide  offering such  a package  as 
long as it made it clear  to Mr and Mrs F that the PPI was included in the package. And from 
what Mr and Mrs F have  told us they were informed  the PPI was included in the mortgage 
package.
So having  been informed of this Mr and Mrs F couldve  either  asked Nationwide for a 
different mortgage  offer that didnt include PPI or else approached a different lender for their 
mortgage. So I wouldnt uphold  their complaint on this point.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs F got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.
After 25 years I cant know what information was given to Mr and Mrs F. Its possible the 
information Nationwide gave them about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been.  
But Mr and Mrs F chose to proceed with the mortgage package  that included  the PPI- so it 
looks like they were  interested in this type of cover.
The PPI covered Mr F and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
he would  have been able to make  a claim if he needed to.
The policy had a 90-day deferred  period,  this might put off someone who had limited  
resources as the policy wouldnt begin to pay out for three  months. But Mr F has told us hed 
get full sick pay from his employer for six months. So I dont this would  have put Mr and    
Mrs F off buying the policy.
And the PPI policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr F received and it couldve 
paid out for up to 24 months. Thats much longer than Mr Fs sick pay would last, so I think 
Mr and Mrs F couldve found the policy useful, particularly if Mr F couldnt work for an 
extended period.  It also looks like the premiums  were affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs F off taking out 
the PPI. 
In summary  I think Mr and Mrs F were told clearly  the PPI was included as part of a 
mortgage package  offered  to them by Nationwide and they chose to accept the mortgage 
offer. I think that even  if Nationwide had given them all the clear  information about the PPI 
that it shouldve,  they still would have  gone ahead.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional 
decision, Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  And Im not intending  to 
make any award against Nationwide  Building  Society.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0163098