K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr A in 1996. The policy  was taken out 
when Mr A was applying for a mortgage,  and provided cover  if he couldnt  work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr As needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr A the information  he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr A 
is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking 
out the policy  if there hadnt  been  any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr A says he didnt know the PPI had been  added to his account,  and that Lloyds didnt give 
him a proper choice  about buying the cover. Ive noted everything Mr A has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr A and Lloyds 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these  events took place over twenty  years  
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
Ive also looked  at the mortgage application  Mr A completed.  This included a section  about  
PPI, and there were  Yes and No boxes that had to be completed to show  whether or not 
the customer wanted the cover. Mr As application  was completed to show  that he wanted 
the PPI. There were then other questions that had to be answered  to check  that the 
customer was eligible for the policy.
Ref: DRN04093142So without anything  else to support  what Mr A has told me, I havent  been able to safely 
conclude that Lloyds didnt make him aware that the policy  was optional.
Lloyds accepts that it advised Mr A to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  I say this 
because:
- Mr A was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr A wasnt entitled to sick pay, so the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to 
him if he couldnt work because of sickness or accident. 
- Mr A was self-employed,  but this would not have prevented him from making a 
successful unemployment claim on the policy. And this wouldnt  be any more difficult 
than it would  be for someone  who was employed. As Mr A could have benefited  from 
the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better advice or information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr A before he 
agreed to buy it. But Mr A took out the policy knowing he would have to pay 
something for it. It seems  the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr A would  have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr A wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr A would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided  overall,  I think  he 
would still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0409314