K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the service and delays experienced during the transfer  of his pension 
by Scottish Equitable  Plc to a new provider. 
background
In early 2018, Mr E contacted Scottish Equitable for transfer quotes on his pensions and the 
following day it issued out two sets of transfer forms for his policies.  Scottish Equitable 
received a transfer request from the receiving provider for one of his policies  on 4 April 2018, 
and this was processed  on 9 April 2018. 
Mr E complained to Scottish Equitable in June 2018  as it had only processed  the transfer of 
one of the policies. Scottish  Equitable responded the same day confirming that it hadnt  
received any transfer requests for the other policy which was why it hadnt been transferred.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should not be upheld.  He 
contacted the receiving  scheme who confirmed that Mr Es application had only requested 
the transfer of one of his policies, and that it received the request to transfer the additional 
policy on 13 July 2018.
In addition, he noted Mr Es comments that Scottish  Equitable had been obstructive in 
providing him with the required information to transfer his additional policy which  is why the 
transfer was delayed. However, he considered  the transfer forms received by Mr E for his 
two policies were almost identical in terms of layout and Mr E had successfully transferred 
one of his policies based on this information. Therefore, he did not believe that Scottish  
Equitable had caused any delays  in the transfer of his pensions, noting that they were each 
transferred shortly after a transfer request had been  received.  
Mr E didnt agree. He said he had some knowledge of pension transfers and found Scottish 
Equitable to be obstructive in providing him with the information he required to transfer  his 
pension. He said it had taken him a considerable amount of time to transfer  his additional 
policy as Scottish Equitable would not divulge the information he needed over the telephone. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
When Mr E called Scottish Equitable on 7 February it responded by sending  him transfer 
values and transfer forms for his two policies. I have  seen nothing  to show  why the 
information contained in those documents was insufficient to allow  the transfers to proceed. 
The provider to which Mr E wanted  to transfer  his pensions sent a transfer request for one of 
the pensions in April and this was processed  by Scottish Equitable  within five days. I do not 
consider that to have been  an unreasonable delay.
Ref: DRN00265022Mr E says that he didnt  have enough information  to allow him to make the transfer request  
for the second  pension. Having reviewed the two forms  I cannot  see why he considers that 
to be the case.  The forms are virtually identical and contain scheme  and plan numbers which 
I gather  should have  been sufficient to allow  him to request the transfer.
The business chooses not to disclose plan numbers over the phone and it is entitled  to take 
this approach as a matter of its commercial and security processes. I understand Mr E had 
wanted that information by phone,  but given it was supplied without unreasonable  delay by 
post I cannot say Scottish Equitable has done  anything wrong in that regard.
I appreciate that Mr E had expressed his dissatisfaction with Scottish Equitable with some 
feeling, but I have not been given any evidence  that allows me to conclude that it has done 
anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2018.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0026502