K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that he received unsuitable advice from an appointed  representative  (AR) of 
Abana, to transfer his Occupational  Pension Scheme (OPS) funds into an Avalon SIPP  and 
invest in high risk investments. These  investments now dont have a realisable value.
To resolve  the complaint,  Mr L wants to be put back in the financial position  he would have 
been in if he hadnt been given the unsuitable advice.
background
On 28 April 2014 Mr L completed the necessary  documentation to transfer his occupational 
pension into a SIPP with the provider Avalon Investment Services  Limited  (Avalon). 
The SIPP was used  to make investments in two unregulated funds via a bond with a 
business called ePortfolio Solutions  (ePortfolio) namely:
the Kijani Commodity Fund (Kijani); and
the Swiss Asset Micro Assist Inc Fund (SAMAIF).
In total, Mr L transferred  £189,778.33 into the SIPP.
The application documents for the SIPP  and ePortfolio bond  listed Mr Ls adviser as 
individuals ill refer to as KB and RF. Ill set out more detail about this below.
The unregulated funds were suspended a short time later and Mr L has suffered losses from 
the investments.
Mr L brought his complaint to us in October  2015. He said that he had received a letter from 
a business called Complete Compliance Support Limited (CCSL) in February 2016 setting 
out that Abana would  compensate him for the unsuitable advice he had received for making 
the transfer to the SIPP with Avalon. He told us that he had written back  to CCSL confirming 
his acceptance  of the offer. 
Mr L said that Abana hadnt paid him the compensation despite him chasing it. So, he asked  
us to resolve the matter.
In summary,  Mr L has said the following:
He was initially contacted by his mortgage adviser who Ill refer to as MB, who discussed 
his frozen occupational pension scheme  with him.
His mortgage adviser explained that hed recently started advising on pensions  
alongside a colleague,  RF, and they could recommend  a SIPP  which would provide safer  
growth and the potential  for larger returns than his existing scheme.
His mortgage adviser provided the advice, with RF subsequently completing the 
paperwork. Both said they worked for Abana.
Mr L said he was told what boxes to tick on the forms by MB.
Towards the end of the process, MB told Mr L that RF needed to come to his house as 
he needed some  forms signing. Mr L signed the forms but RF didnt engage in 
conversation and left as soon as he could.
Mr L said he wasnt put in touch with KB or was aware of who she was (her name  is on a 
lot of the paperwork)  until after hed complained to Avalon  about  his SIPP.
Ref: DRN08505222Mr L received a call from MB saying Avalon would call him and to give authority to 
change the servicing of the SIPP from the existing (Abana) to RF Associates as he had 
joined RF now at RF associates.
Abana has said that after the remediation exercise  was undertaken by CCSL,  it came to its 
attention that RF didnt complete the paperwork acting in his capacity  as an AR of Abana. 
Instead, Abana says, RF was doing  this business as RF Associates, and RF Associates 
wasnt its AR. Therefore,  Abana says that RF in fact arranged the SIPP for Mr L via RF 
Associates and not in his capacity as an AR of Abana. So, Abana says it isnt responsible for 
the losses Mr L has incurred because of this.
The investigator concluded that we could look into Mr Ls complaint. And after considering 
the merits of the case he went  on to uphold it. Abana disagreed and so this case has been  
passed to me to consider.  Before moving on, Ill deal with a few of the matters  raised by 
Abana in responding  to this Service.
Abana argues that Avalon, as the SIPP provider, was regulated and allegedly  accepted 
business introductions from an unregulated party and instructions to buy unregulated 
investments. Avalon  had a responsibility  to carry out due diligence. Abana  says Avalon was 
the business that had the relationship with RF.
Abana also questions why Avalon agreed new terms of business with the entities New 
Beginnings Ltd and RF Associates, suggesting  it was because those clients were  not meant  
to be added to its agency. It has suggested collusion between  RF and Avalon, resulting in 
the complaints  it now faces. 
Abana has said that Avalon gave  false information to the specialist compliance consultancy  
which was commissioned to look into the advice Abana had given various clients. It says that 
consultancy was negligent in how it conducted the reviews. Further,  it cites a fund 
management company  as having  responsibility for the SIPP  investments. And it questions 
actions taken by the FCA in 2015  which it says couldve had a material  impact  on the losses  
of some complainants.
What Abana  asserts may or may not be the case in relation to other regulated and 
unregulated firms and individuals. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties 
here. Mr L has brought his complaint against  Abana and thats  what I need to address.
We cant join third parties to a complaint to help shed light on whats happened in a case.  
Whilst we do have  powers to require parties  to a complaint to provide information to us, we 
cant compel anyone  who isnt a party to the complaint to provide evidence.
Abana will be aware, a court does have  powers to compel third parties to give evidence and 
to be cross  examined. Its free to pursue  other parties it feels  may have been  responsible to 
whatever degree  for whats happened  to Mr L and for exposing it to any claims and costs 
that it now faces. But thats  not something this Service can help with.
Abana has also said that in a meeting it held with another SIPP provider and RF in May 
2013, it was told some SIPP products were insurance based and therefore compliant under 
IMD permissions. Its not clear to me if Abana is saying it was misled by other  parties into 
thinking it could  carry on the activities that are the subject  of this complaint. Whatever the 
case, as a regulated firm its responsible  for its own regulatory compliance  and its own acts 
and omissions.
Ref: DRN08505223Abana has offered arguments  in support of its position at various  points over the past few 
years, and more  recently in response to our investigators opinions and some  decisions this 
Service has already  upheld. But much of these  arguments have already been considered by 
our Service,  responded  to and explained in our views and decisions. So Ive not provided a 
detailed response  to all the arguments Abana has posed. Thats deliberate; ours is an 
informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken account and considered all Abanas  submissions, Ive concentrated my 
findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint. As much of what Abana 
has said has already  been considered and communicated in other views and decisions, 
much of what I say in this decision  will already be familiar to it. However, this case has been  
considered on its own merits  and in light of the particular circumstances of this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the parties involved in this case
I believe a good  starting  point  to be an explanation  of the parties that may have  been  
involved in the acts or omissions which have led to this complaint. 
 Abana Unipessoal Lda
Abana is a Portuguese advisory  firm that, at the relevant time, passported into the UK under 
the Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD)  on a branch passport. So, at the relevant time, it 
was an EEA authorised  firm. 
Abanas business model appears to have  involved generating fees from advisors conducting 
activities in the UK. It has previously been  attached to several firms and individuals (see tab 
Appointed representatives / tied agents  / PSD or EMD agents under Abanas entry on the 
Financial Services Register (the Register).
 Avalon Financial  Services  Limited
Avalon was a UK based SIPP provider  and administrator,  regulated  by the FCA. Avalon was 
authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange  (bring about) deals in investments,  deal in 
investments as principal,  establish, operate and wind up a pension  scheme  and make  
arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
An Avalon  SIPP was used to make  the unregulated investments that Mr S has complained 
about.
Avalon was placed into administration  in February 2016 and was dissolved in August 2018. I 
understand the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is currently  considering 
claims against Avalon.
Embark took over the administration  of Avalons pension scheme, however, they didnt take 
on its liabilities. Therefore,  any claims  against Avalon are being  considered  by the FSCS.
Ref: DRN08505224As part of our investigation, we were provided with some very helpful emails  and documents  
by Embark. Embark hasnt been  able to locate all the records  (much of which  appears to 
have been by way of telephone calls) and so we dont have a complete picture of some  of 
the relationships  between  the parties.
 New Beginnings  (Financial  Solutions)  Ltd
New Beginnings  was listed on the FCA register as an appointed representative of Abana 
from 11 March 2014 until 6 February  2015. RF was a minority shareholder of this firm as 
was MB. And KB was a director  of this firm. 
We have been  provided with a copy of the appointed representative agreement between 
Abana and New Beginnings which is dated  7 March 2014. The recitals of this agreement set 
out the following:
WHEREAS:
 The Company  [Abana]  is in the business  of international  wealth  management,  life 
assurance  and general  insurance  mediation  and is authorised  and regulated  by the 
lnstituto  de Seguros  de Portugal  ("ISP")  with registration  number  412378472.  The 
Company  has established  a branch  in England  with company  registration  FC031241  with 
limited  regulation  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  ("FCA")  number  597069  and 
authorised  by the DGSFP  In Spain.
 The Company  hereby  appoints  the AR [New Beginnings] as its appointed  
representative,  subject  to the terms  of this agreement  whereby  the Company  shall  
authorise  and the AR shall  conduct  the Activities  defined  herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
 "Activities"  means  the activities  for which  the Company  is authorised,  as agreed  between  
the parties  as detailed  in the Schedule  hereto  (as amended  from time to time);
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any 
person  or persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the 
AR and any person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We were not provided with a copy of the Schedule  referred to in the agreement. 
 RF
RF is a central figure  in this complaint because, as Ill set out later in this decision, it is RF 
who appears to have arranged for Mr Ls pension to be transferred to the SIPP with Avalon 
(and to invest in the unregulated Kijani  and SAMAIF). One of the matters  I will need  to 
establish is whether  in conducting those activities, RF was acting on behalf  of Abana  (either  
as its appointed representative  or its agent).
Abana has said the following about  its relationship with RF.
The relationship was that RF (redacted) was a qualified IFA with a client  
base that he had built up while he worked for [another advice firm not linked 
to Abana]  with [a SIPP operator]  products. These clients were transferred 
to Abana  and he would  continue to assist those clients. Abana obtained a 
[sic] agency with [the SIPP operator] and provided  a home  for his clients.  
RF paid us £5880 annually for this temporary service as he said he was 
Ref: DRN08505225going to be directly authorised. This agreement  was superseded when RF 
introduced New Beginnings  Ltd who became an appointed representative 
of Abana.
RF doesnt  appear  on the FCAs register as an appointed representative of Abana . However,  
this isnt a requirement  under section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 
(FSMA), so its not determinative of whether or not he was acting as Abanas appointed 
representative.
And Im satisfied that he was an appointed representative of Abana because  of what  Abana 
has said above and because we have seen an appointed  representative agreement  between 
RF and Abana dated 1 May 2013. Abana has now suggested that it believes this agreement 
is a forgery. But it was Abana itself that provided us with this document, and it said nothing 
at the time of providing the document that it was fraudulent or not valid for any reason. So, I 
dont think Abanas  argument is credible.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, (this will be discussed in more  detail later),  Im 
satisfied that RF introduced business  to Avalon as an appointed representative of 
Abana for a short time between March 2014 to the end of May 2014.  As a 
reminder, Mr Ls SIPP arrangements were  made  at the end of April 2014.
RF was also a minority  shareholder of the firm New Beginnings described above.
 RF Associates
RF Associates isnt a legal entity  or company in its own right. It appears to be a trading name 
RF began using for activities he was carrying out from a certain point in time.
RF initially  introduced business to Avalon as an appointed representative  of Abana.  Avalon 
has said its records indicate that commission payments for business  introduced  by RF 
before May 2014 were  paid directly  to Abana.
At the end of May 2014, RF told Avalon that he was in the process  of getting his own FCA 
authorisation (we understand he had previously been submitting business to Avalon using 
Abanas authorisation number). He made an application for new terms of business  (TOB)  
and this was acknowledged by Avalon, which noted internally that he was leaving Abana.
In June 2014 RF and Avalon were  trying to finalise  the arrangements  for RF to be submitting 
business to them on his own account. For example, the parties  discussed  ensuring 
appropriate letters of authority for RFs clients were  in place and were in the process of 
agreeing when payments to his new  agency would be effective from.
RFs FCA authorisation hadnt been  received by July 2014, so he agreed  with Avalon that in 
the interim, business would be conducted  through New Beginnings, with RF Associates 
acting as part of that network.
 MB
Mr S says he received  advice from MB who was Mr Ls mortgage adviser. He said he was a 
friend of RF and had moved into pensions, he purported to be an agent of Abana.  But weve 
found no evidence  that there was an appointed representative agreement  between MB and 
Abana.  MB was also a minority shareholder  of New Beginnings.
Ref: DRN08505226 KB
KB details are found throughout the transfer  documentation. She has signed the suitability 
report, commissioned the transfer  value  analysis (TVAS) and signed the ePortfolio and 
Avalon application forms.  She claims to work for Abana and on behalf of RF and said she 
completed the work for RF. However, Mr L makes  no mention of him throughout the advice 
process which he says was given by MB. Mr L never  met KB and understood that it was RF 
who was carrying out the arrangements.
We have seen no evidence that there is an AR agreement between  KB and Abana and KB 
was not listed  as an AR of Abana on the FCA register. Companies  House records do show 
that KB was a director of New Beginnings. I think she was associated  with RF given that he 
was a shareholder of New Beginnings. She did not have her own FCA authorisation.
can our Service consider  Mr Ls complaint against  Abana?
the jurisdiction of the ombudsman service 
The ombudsman service  can consider a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1 R). A firm includes an incoming EEA firm. Abana  
was, at the relevant time, an incoming EEA firm.
DISP 2.3.3 G provides  further guidance on what acts or omissions can be considered as a 
complaint (bolding  is my emphasis) and sets out that:
 complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which the firm 
 is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which  
the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So, there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts about which Mr L complains done in the carrying  on of a regulated 
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Abana responsible  for those acts?
were the acts Mr L complained  about  done  in carrying on a regulated activity?
Mr L has complained  about  Abanas  role in him receiving unsuitable pension  and investment  
advice. And the subsequent arrangements made  on his behalf to transfer his Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) funds to a SIPP with Avalon and make investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. Mr L says he hasnt been compensated despite previous assurances  he 
would be.
Section 22 of FSMA defines "regulated  activities"  as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes  any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means  specified in an order made by the Treasury.
Ref: DRN08505227The relevant  Treasury order is the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
Article 82 of the RAO provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. A SIPP is a personal pension scheme.  So, giving advice about a SIPP is a 
regulated activity. 
Im satisfied Mr L was provided  with advice to transfer his OPS into a SIPP with Avalon. I 
believe Mr L was told that the unregulated investments would  perform  better than his 
existing plans. I think Mr L trusted the assurances he got about the safety of the funds, which  
is why he was persuaded to make the transfer.
In addition, under Article  25(1) RAO,  making  arrangements for another person to buy and 
sell a specified investment is a regulated  activity.  And Article 25(2) RAO says making 
arrangements with a view to a person  who participates in the arrangements  for buying and 
selling these types of investments is also a regulated  activity.
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements  
that would  have the direct effect  that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
It then says the following about  Article  25(2):
The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is concerned  
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These  are where a person  provides  arrangements of some  kind:
(1) to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as multilateral 
trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing  houses and service companies (for 
example, persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing of orders or the 
negotiation of transactions)).
RFs details were included on Mr Ls ePortfolio  Solutions application. And both this and his 
SIPP application had Abanas details on. The SIPP was setup,  the transfers occurred and 
were invested into the ePortfolio Solutions  bond . So Im satisfied that a regulated arranging 
activity took place here.
Ref: DRN08505228was Abana responsible for the acts and omissions of the individuals involved?
The next thing  I must  consider is whether Abana is responsible for the acts and omissions  of 
the individuals involved. As mentioned above,  the guidance at DISP  2.3.3G says (bolding is 
my emphasis):
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)".
Appointed representatives
Section 39 FSMA sets out the following:
Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1) If a person (other than an authorised  person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal)  which  
(i) permits  or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and 
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing, he is exempt from the general 
prohibition in relation to any regulated activity comprised in the carrying  on of that 
business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.

(2) In this Act appointed representative means
(a) a person who is exempt as a result of subsection (1)
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
(4) In determining whether  an authorised person has complied with
(a) a provision contained in or made under  this Act,  anything which  a relevant person has 
done or omitted as respects business for which  the authorised person  has accepted 
responsibility is to be treated as having been done or omitted by the authorised person.
(5) Relevant person  means a person  who at the material time is or was an appointed 
representative by virtue of being a party to a contract with the authorised person.
So, a firm is answerable  for complaints about  the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to 
the business it has accepted responsibility  for in writing. I therefore  need to determine 
whether Abana had accepted responsibility  - in writing - for the acts being complained about 
here i.e. the advice  and the arrangements.
Ref: DRN08505229The law of agency  
As set out above, a firm may also be responsible  for the acts or omissions of its agents 
(DISP 2.3.3G). So in the alternative, I will need to consider whether either  MB,KB  or RF 
were acting as Abanas agents in relation to the acts complained about, and whether it is 
therefore responsible for Mr Ls complaint on that basis.
Agency is where  one party  (the principal)  allows another  party (the agent) to act on its behalf 
in such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. Broadly speaking, there are 
two types of agency I will need to consider: (1) actual authority, either express or implied,  
and (2) apparent (also  called ostensible) authority. 
The textbook Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (21st Ed) sets out the following about actual 
authority [chapter 3, article 22]:
Actual authority
Actual authority  is the authority which the principal  has given the agent wholly or in part 
by means of words or writing (called here express  authority) or is regarded  by the law as 
having given him because  of the interpretation  put by the law on the relationship and 
dealings of the two parties.  Although founded in the principals assent, the conferral  of 
authority is judged objectively.
Diplock LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 
480 [at paragraph 502]:
An actual authority  is a legal relationship between principal  and agent  created by a 
consensual agreement  to which they alone are parties. Its scope is to be ascertained  by 
applying ordinary principles of construction of contracts, including  any proper implications 
from the express words  used, the usages  of the trade, or the course of business  between 
the parties. To this agreement the contractor is a stranger: he may be totally  ignorant of 
the existence of any authority on the part of the agent. Nevertheless, if the agent does 
enter into a contract  pursuant  to the actual  authority, it does create  contractual rights and 
liabilities between the principal and the contractor.
So, actual authority is a legal  relationship between the principal  and agent  created by an 
agreement to which they alone  are parties.  It may be express, for example a written  contract  
or oral agreement.  Or it can be implied , where  the authority can be concluded from the 
conduct of the parties or the circumstances of the case  that consent has been given for 
certain acts to be carried out by the agent  on behalf  of the principal.
And Bowstead & Reynolds  sets out the following  about apparent  authority [chapter 8, article 
72]:
Ref: DRN085052210Apparent (or Ostensible) Authority
Where a person,  by words or conduct, represents or permits  it to be represented  that 
another person has authority to act on his behalf, he is bound  by the acts of that other 
person with respect to anyone dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  
representation, to the same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was 
represented to have, even though he had no such actual authority. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 480:
The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to act 
in some way in the conduct of the principals business with other persons. By so doing  the 
principal represents  to anyone who becomes aware that the agent is so acting that the 
agent has authority  to enter on behalf  of the principal into contracts with other persons of 
the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  
"actual" authority to enter into.
So, the question  I must  consider here is whether Abana (as principal) allowed MB, KB and/or  
RF (the agents) to act on its behalf in relation to conducting  the activities Mr L has 
complained about.  And whether this was done  with the express  or implied  agreement  of 
Abana (actual authority), or whether  the evidence shows Mr L relied on a representation 
made by Abana (or that Abana allowed  to be made) that MB, KB and/or RF had its authority 
to carry out the acts complained about.
The advice given  to Mr L.
We have seen copies  of a fact find, transfer analysis and a suitability report  of sorts named 
Pension Comparison  Information Report  purporting  to come from Abana   with Abana in a 
header at the top of each  page and references  to contacting Abana. This seems  to have 
been completed by KB as she has signed the form but with RFs name  also at the bottom.
Mr L has told us he understood that Abana was owned by RF and that MB was working for 
RF. Hes said he wasnt aware of KB until Avalon put him in touch with her much  later on 
and following his complaint. Hed trusted  MB as hed got him good deals on his mortgage 
and hes said that it was MB that advised him to transfer his pension. Mr L knew  about the 
documents and did see them but didnt really understand them.  He said he cant remember  
realising that it had KBs name on them. And the detailed conversation around transferring 
was had with MB. He met RF only to sign the paperwork to transfer  later but understood him 
to be overseeing things and that he was MBs boss.
Mr L trusted MB. I dont think he was clear who he worked for. But he presented himself as 
someone associated  with RF, Mr L has said hed been led to believe RF owned Abana and 
MB worked for him. It seems from Mr Ls testimony it was MB who advised him despite  KB 
and RF were  the names included on various bits of paperwork he received  prior to transfer.
Ultimately despite the paperwork  completed  by KB with RFs name  included,  I think it was 
MB who carried out the advice.
But I havent seen  any evidence that there was an AR agreement  or any other written 
agreement between MB and Abana. And he was never listed as an appointed representative 
Ref: DRN085052211of Abana  on the FCAs register. In fact, Ive seen no evidence of any direct  relationship  
between MB and Abana. 
MB was a shareholder and KB was a director of New Beginnings, which  later became an AR 
of Abana.  So, there may have been  an emerging relationship between MB/KB and Abana  
through that entity. But theres no evidence they were acting on behalf of New Beginnings in 
the transaction with Mr L.
It seems  clear  that the advice given by MB and the reports KB drew up was a means to an 
end to get Mr L to transfer and so the arrangements could  be made. I think RF was aware of 
what MB and KB had done but didnt play a direct role in the giving of advice. So I dont think  
Abana can be held responsible for the advice.
But this was just essentially  a hurdle to overcome prior to the arrangements.  And therefore 
whats important to decide this case is whether RF was acting in his capacity as an AR or 
agent of Abana in his dealings with Mr L.
The arrangements  made  for Mr L.
The first thing I need to consider is whether RF was responsible for the arrangements made 
here. His name is on some of the forms, but these were signed  by KB, who also included  her 
own names in places. But I think this was done  with RFs knowledge, permission  and he was 
overseeing these arrangements. I think RF was responsible  for the arrangements  and I say 
this because:
Mr Ls testimony is that MB referred to RF of Abana throughout and MB was working 
for RF
Mr L met RF when RF visited his home  to get Mr L to sign the relevant paperwork for 
the arrangements
It seems  RF got KB to a lot of the legwork in this case, it is her signature on the forms 
but we have testimony from her that she was doing this on behalf of RF. Whilst her 
evidence has a cloud  hanging over it, considering her involvement, this does fit with 
the evidence weve been presented with. And Im persuaded  that at least  that part of 
what she says is true.
RFs details were included on Mr Ls ePortfolio  Solutions application. And both this 
and his SIPP application had Abanas  details on. RFs details were submitted on the 
ePortfolio Solutions application  as the adviser and Abana as the firm he was 
conducting the business for.
Whilst KB signed  the forms  on behalf of Abana. RF was the key contact and it was 
RF who led Avalon to believe  that he was introducing business for Abana.
Avalon emailed RF alongside KB about Mr Ls arrangements.  This shows  that RF 
was aware and I think alongside  all the other  evidence, indicates  that KBs 
involvement was allowed  by Avalon through her association with RF and ultimately 
his with Abana.
Had Avalon had any concern about  KB being separate  from RF and/or signing forms 
on RFs behalf. Im certain it wouldve contacted  RF. The information provided  by 
Embark shows  Avalon and RF had open lines of communication. 
The next thing  I need to consider is whether RF was conducting these activities  with Mr L 
either (1) in his capacity  as an AR or agent of Abana,  (2) in his own unregulated capacity 
(i.e. as RF Associates, or (3) as part of the New Beginnings Network.
Ref: DRN085052212The arrangements,  including  for the transfer of his Occupational Pension Plan, the 
transmission of his application for a SIPP with Avalon were done  with RFs knowledge and 
oversight and Abana was listed  as the firm. His relationship with Avalon as an AR of Abana 
allowed the business to be submitted and the SIPP to be set up and the subsequent 
arrangements that followed.  Mr Ls application  to ePortfolio Solutions,  and effecting  the 
investment in unregulated funds, were done in RFs name with Abana  listed as the firm. 
Avalon relied  on the authority it understood him to have  in these matters.
So, having  reviewed the evidence, I think the arrangements in Mr Ls introduction to Avalon 
were conducted by RF on behalf of Abana because:
Key arrangements  were set in motion around the end of April with the SIPP application 
submitted at the end of April 2014 and the SIPP setup early May 2014   this is before RF 
told Avalon that he was leaving  Abana  and provided new terms of business for it at the 
end of May 2014. Before this date RF had been submitting business to SIPP providers in 
his capacity as an agent of Abana  and using that firms authorisation details.
Where Mr Ls application paperwork required identification of the Financial Adviser Firm 
Name, this was identified as Abana Lda.
Avalon set up the SIPP  with Abana listed as the introducer  so it understood the 
business to have been submitted by RF in his capacity as an appointed representative of 
Abana.
The transfer of funds to the SIPP and the investments in the bond did not complete  until 
August 2014 due to delays in receiving  the funds.  But the SIPP  was arranged in early  
May 2014 in Abanas  name  and it wasnt replaced  as Mr Ls adviser  to RF Associates 
until October 2014.
The arrangements  to invest in the unregulated  funds with ePortfolio Solutions listed  RFs 
name and Abana as the firm.
The change of servicing rights to [RF] Associates occurred  on 10 October  and after the 
delayed arrangements had taken place.
Given what Ive seen  in this complaint and in other similar cases, Im satisfied RF arranged  
Mr Ls SIPP with Avalon while he was still an agent of Abana (and not in his capacity as an 
unregulated introducer when he was purporting to seek  direct  authorisation for RF 
Associates, or as part of the New Beginnings Network).
RF was responsible for transmission of the authorised paperwork to Avalon which facilitated 
Mr L opening the SIPP and the investment  in the unregulated funds. Im satisfied that this 
constitutes the regulated activity of arranging  the pension scheme with Avalon. And, Im 
satisfied that the actions  of RF constitute  making  arrangements for another person to buy 
and sell a specified  investment under Article  25(1) of the RAO.
Abana has said it didnt receive payment from Avalon in relation to this case. Embark has 
provided us with some records of payment  for the business RF conducted between April and 
September 2014 and Mr L is not listed. However,  the evidence  suggests this isnt complete 
or exhaustive list of payments made in relation to each individual client.
Ref: DRN085052213As Ill explain in more detail later, the way in which the commission payments were paid by 
Avalon was not straightforward or always set out with client specification.  And in any event 
its not a simple case of just checking if Abana received  payment  for Mr L that either 
absolves it of its responsibility or not.
Im satisfied RF was acting as an agent of Abana  when  making  the arrangements for Mr L. 
And that Abana  is the authorised person  here. 
did Abana accept responsibility for these arrangements under section 39(3)  FSMA?
I now need to consider  whether RF did in fact have  authority to act on behalf of Abana  in 
advising on and arranging Mr Ls SIPP with Avalon. Weve been  provided  with an agreement 
between Abana and RF which purports to be an appointed representative  agreement. This 
was provided by Abana when we first became involved in these cases in February  2016.  
The agreement states the following:
THIS AGREEMENT is made this 1st day of May 2013
BETWEEN:
(1) ABANA Lda, a company registered in Portugal under  number 510205410("the Company"); 
and 
(2) [RF] (a person) of [specified address] ("the Appointed Representative or AR").
WHEREAS:
(1) The Company is in the business of international  wealth management, life assurance and 
general insurance mediation and is authorised and regulated by the Institute de Seguros de 
Portugal ("ISP") with registration number 412378472. The Company is authorised to conduct 
business in the UK under  the regime  of free provision  of services within the European Union and 
has been authorised as such by ISP and the Financial Services Authority ("FSA")  with FSA 
registration number  597069.
(2) The Company hereby  appoints  the AR as its appointed representative, subject to the terms of 
this agreement  whereby the Company shall authorise and the AR shall conduct the various  
activities defined herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  agreed  and discussed  between  the parties  on execution  of 
this agreement,  as amended  from time to time,  which  the parties  may further  clarify  in an 
annex  hereto,  in default  of which  such  activities  shall  include  activities  defined  in FSA 
Regulations  as insurance  mediation  activities  and designated  life assurance  business;
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any person  or 
persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the AR and any 
person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We werent provided with a copy of the annex  referred to in the agreement,  but I note that in 
default the agreement shall include activities defined in FSA Regulations as insurance  
mediation activities and designated life assurance  business,  so Ive taken this into 
consideration.
The agreement is signed by both parties.
Ref: DRN085052214The arrangements  made  in connection with the SIPP and the underlying investments for Mr 
L didnt constitute insurance mediation activities or life assurance business   both of which 
relate to contracts  of insurance.  So, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the terms 
of the AR agreement  didnt authorise RF to conduct the arrangements  that he carried  out for 
him.
As such,  I conclude Abana  didnt  accept responsibility in writing  under the statutory regime  
of section 39 (3) FSMA for RF to arrange  this transaction in his capacity as an AR of Abana.  
And, so it isnt responsible for the acts of RF in this case on the basis  of section 39 FSMA.
In its response to this Service, Abana suggests  the AR agreement  is a fraud. It noted the 
font on the final signed page was different from the rest of document.  It says the agreement  
weve relied on didnt  have RFs original  (wet) signature on it. It says the agreement wasnt 
enforceable because it didnt have  all the elements required to be a valid contract. And that 
because it was void, it wasnt submitted to the FCA register  and therefore  RF didnt become 
a regulated AR of Abana.
Abanas submission has some merit. For example, I can see that the last page of the 
agreement  which contains the signatures  of the parties - is in a different font from the rest 
of the document. And as Ive already acknowledged  RF was never  listed on the FCA register 
as an AR of Abana.
However, Id note it was Abana  itself which provided the copy of the agreement  to us that it 
now asserts  is a fraud. In an email to this Service in 2016, responding to an enquiry about 
RFs role with Abana, it told us We have not been  able to locate a written agreement  with 
[RF] as an individual. To this it attached the agreement.  Later it explained it had meant it 
couldnt find a document  with his original  signature.
In a recent  submission, Abana said that when it spoke to one of our investigators in 
February 2016, it made clear it could only locate a copy of a terminated AR agreement  and 
that he asked  for it to be forwarded anyway. 
Abana seems  to be acknowledging here that there was an agreement, but that it was 
terminated. In any case,  weve been  unable to find a recording of the conversation between 
it and the investigator  in February 2016. But Ive seen an exchange of emails during that 
month between Abanas Director and the investigator.  At no point was a terminated AR 
agreement mentioned. The exchange  was focussed on understanding the nature of the 
relationship between it and RF.
Abanas arguments arent persuasive.  When it first sent the AR agreement  to us, it made no 
comment on its veracity  or that what it was forwarding to us was a fraud.  And it didnt say the 
document hadnt been signed  by the parties. I wouldve expected Abana to have  provided  
this important commentary at the time, not four years later.
Im satisfied that the AR agreement  Ive seen is genuine and indicative of the relationship  
between Abana and RF. My conclusion is bolstered by what Abana has told us about its 
connection with him and the emails Ive seen between Abana and RF, and between Abana  
and SIPP  providers which I set out in more  detail below.
Ref: DRN085052215Ill now go on to consider whether Abana may have given  RF authority to conduct pensions 
business on its behalf under common law principles  of agency. This, as previously set out, is 
provided for under DISP  2.3.3 G.
was Abana responsible for the arrangements made by RF acting as its agent?
In analysing whether  there was an agency  arrangement I need  to understand what  was 
contracted between  the parties  in order to determine whether or not the relevant activities 
RF carried  out were within the scope of what had been authorised  and agreed to by Abana 
(i.e. had Abana given its actual authority for RF to carry on those activities  on its behalf?).
Leaving aside the AR agreement, there are several  other batches  of evidence that are 
important to my consideration here.
the pension activities  and arrangements RF was undertaking
Abanas told us that it knew  that RF was involved with pension activities  when it entered  into 
a relationship with him. In 2016 it told us:
The relationship was that [RF] was a qualified IFA with a client  base that he had built up 
while he worked for [another advice firm] with [SIPP provider] products. These  clients  were 
transferred to Abana and he would  continue to assist those clients.  Abana obtained a [sic]
agency with [SIPP Provider] and provided a home for his clients.  [RF] paid us £5880  
annually for this temporary  service as he said he was going  to be directly  authorised.  This 
agreement was superseded when  [RF] introduced New Beginnings Ltd who became  an 
appointed representative of Abana.  
Abana says this arrangement, which it still acknowledges,  was for a fixed-fee for the 
caretaking of an existing client base for temporary  period.  It said the arrangement  did not 
confer any authority  to RF. 
I think it demonstrates that Abana expected RF to carry on pensions activities and facilitated  
this by entering into an agency  agreement with SIPP providers.  Further, theres a pattern of 
contemporaneous evidence which bolsters  my finding that Abana  knew RF had a significant 
and ongoing  involvement in pension  activities, acting on its behalf.
For example, Ive seen  a letter dated  November 2013 from Abana to Avalon  relating to bank 
details for the payment of commission to each of Abanas appointed representative  / sub-
agency.
Abana says this was provided in preparation for the fees generated by the existing SIPP  
client base. But we know from documentation that the fees generated by RF acting  as an 
agent of Abana were sent by another SIPP provider in December 2013 to the account Abana  
had provided details for, showing RF as its AR or sub-agent.
Theres an email exchange in early March 2014  between the same parties, in which the 
SIPP provider requests an urgent meeting with Abana. It writes:
I need  to get our meeting in the diary. We have a number of questions to ask which  really  
are just for us to get a better understanding of Abana, where  you get your leads from and the 
way you implement your compliance  and oversight.  We now have a fair number of cases 
introduced by [RF] and we just need  to monitor the relationship.
Ref: DRN085052216And Abana responds:
We have tried to coordinate a meeting with [RF] but he is leaving on two weeks holiday from 
Friday and is fully bookedwe understand [RFs]  clients are from referrals. All case fact 
finds and notes are uploaded  to our secure client portal to be reviewed by our compliance 
and available  to the client
Abana says this communication  related to business  RF transferred from other advisory firms.  
However, I think the exchange  shows  the SIPP provider understood the relationship to be 
that RF was working  on behalf of Abana  and it was attributing the business RF was 
submitting to it as being business  done  on behalf  of Abana as principal.
Furthermore, I think it shows  Abana was aware of the significant  number of pension 
business introductions RF was making on its behalf.  And that it tried to give the SIPP  
provider assurances  about the records it was keeping for all the clients (fact finds and notes)  
and the compliance  arrangements  it had in place to check things were  being done correctly.
Theres correspondence between Abana and RF in April 2014 about the nature of the 
services he was providing. Abana says this appears to be in relation to a suitability report of 
an existing transferred SIPP. Its Director says this was a personal email, and RF appears to 
want feedback  because he mayve provided  similar opinions for RF when he worked at a 
former company.
In the email Abanas Director tells RF (my emphasis):
Ive had compliance  read through the SL report and here are their comments re investment. 
I should add that we should tell the clients we are not regulated  to give advice on funds and 
they should seek further assistance if they do not want to do it themselves. Let me know  
what you suggest please?
This doesnt seem to me to be a personal exchange.  And I dont find Abanas explanation to 
be credible. I think the email is reflective of Abana giving  RF guidance on how he should be 
constructing the suitability reports for what were  effectively  its clients, following a review  by 
its compliance team. Its quite directive  in tone and suggestive of a principal / agent  
relationship.
The advice from Abanas compliance function to RF focusses on investment funds. There  
was no similar concern  expressed about the pension advice or arrangements RF was 
making. Otherwise, I wouldve expected this to have  been made clear as well.
I think taken together,  this package of evidence demonstrates the following:
The written agreement between  Abana and RF shows that there was a relationship  
between the parties under which they anticipated that RF would  carry out certain 
activities on behalf of Abana.
Unlike the requirements of section 39 FSMA,  Abana  and RF could agree in a more 
informal way that RF had authority  to conduct pensions business  on behalf of Abana, 
such as through  the dealings between the parties. Im satisfied based on the evidence 
that Abana  was aware of, and consented  to, RF carrying on these pension  activities on 
its behalf and that consensual agreement to conduct these activities can be gleaned 
from the dealings  between the parties.
Ref: DRN085052217RF was not directly  authorised by the FCA. The communications between Abana  and RF 
that I have set out above show that Abana entered into a relationship with RF so that he 
could continue to provide advice  to clients on the basis of Abanas authorisation (they  
would become Abanas clients who RF would continue to assist with). And it shows that 
Abana knew RF was providing advice to consumers  to open SIPPs,  in fact it entered into 
terms of business  with SIPP providers so that RF could  provide the same for clients.
Further, Abana has said that in a meeting it held with another  SIPP provider in May 2013,  it 
was told some SIPP products were  insurance  based  and therefore compliant under IMD 
permissions. It seems  possible  it didnt properly understand the business it was becoming  
involved with. 
In June 2015 Abana sent a letter to clients of RF which corroborates the position that RF 
was working for it, it begins:
IMPORTANT: Advice given to you by Abana Lda ("Abana") in relation  to your SIPP 
with [Provider]  Why are we writing to you?
I am writing to you with reference to the advice you received by your former  advisor [RF] 
concerning your investments held with Asset Management International (AMI)  under your 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). It has recently come  to our attention that Abana 
were not authorised to give the advice  we gave to you regarding  your investments as we do 
not have the correct regulatory permissions
Whether Abana was or wasnt misled by other parties into thinking it could carry on the 
activities that are the subject of Mr Ls complaint, the fact as acknowledged in this letter is 
that it was responsible for its own regulatory  compliance and its own acts and omissions  in 
that regard.
So, Im satisfied that RF did have  Abanas  actual authority  to undertake  pension  activities, 
including arranging SIPPs,  on its behalf.
payment of adviser  charges  made  by SIPP providers for business generated by RF
I can also see that from April 2014  RF was liaising  with Avalon to clarify  what commission 
payments were being made  they appeared to be coming through as a lump  sum and he 
couldnt work out how the payments related to different clients. 
RF asked Avalon  for more  information  about the transactions. He says the payment side 
was done from Portugal (where the main Abana group is based), so it was important for him 
to get a better breakdown  of what the payments represented. Avalon appears  to have acted 
on his request to ensure he received a copy of future commission  statements  to his own 
business address.
Communications between  RF and Avalon continued  through May and June 2014 and 
increasingly became  about remuneration arrangements  following his planned establishment  
of [RF] Associates. And then when  this didnt work out, there were discussions about 
channelling payments to the New Beginnings network. It was agreed  that fees would go 
direct to him in future, subject to certain conditions being met.
The position  gets muddled for several  reasons.  Avalon started withholding  some  commission  
payments to Abana, giving  RF an opportunity to get his clients  to sign letters  of authority  
(LOA) to transfer oversight of their SIPP affairs from Abana  to his new agency.
Ref: DRN085052218Its clear getting the LOAs in place was problematic. And this may shed light on Abanas 
testimony when it says it didnt receive  payments from Avalon in respect of certain 
transactions. The following email from Avalon to RF from September 2014 is revealing:
We are being chased by Abana to supply them  with details of adviser charges paid in the 
last quarter.  As you know we have  held back payments to them  pending receipt of LOA 
from you for 13 clients but we are now being put in a difficult  position with regards  to 
payment on these. Can I have your thoughts.  We will have  little choice other  than to make 
payment to them if we cant have the LOAs in the very near future.
Ive thought carefully about what all this means.  I think this information supports my finding 
that RF was acting on behalf of Abana until the end of May 2014, even though he appears  to 
be hatching plans to work on his own account prior to this. I think  Abana  was expecting  
payments to flow back to it for this business,  as it had done with other transactions,  and 
when it didnt it queried the position with Avalon.
Although I dont know what payments Abana ultimately received for the reasons Ive set out, 
I do think the evidence  here demonstrates  that RF was given actual authority to undertake  
pension activities on behalf  of Abana. 
the independent review  of pension transactions attributed to Abana 
Abana acknowledged the outcome of an independent review into several cases  that are now 
being dealt with by this Service. The reviews  concluded RF had been responsible for 
unsuitable advice  he gave and the arrangements  he made for the transfer of pension funds 
into SIPPs, and therein the investment  in unregulated funds. In order  to pay the redress  due, 
it made a claim on its professional indemnity insurance. So, at one stage it appeared to 
accept responsibility  for the things RF had done wrong.
But Abana now says that its initial offer to pay redress wasnt an admission that it had got 
something wrong. It says it felt under an obligation following the FCAs intervention.  It said 
the review work conducted by the regulatory  compliance consultancy was flawed. It makes  
various allegations, including that the review relied  on incomplete and false information 
provided by SIPP providers.
Ive thought about what Abana has said here.  I dont find its arguments  convincing. If the 
review work was fatally flawed, then Im surprised it made a claim to its insurers on that 
basis. And it hasnt provided  any evidence of its assertions.
It seems  more  likely  that actually Abanas  later retraction of the offer of redress had more  to 
do with its professional indemnity insurer rejecting its claim to cover the compensation costs. 
I note in December  2017 it wrote  to the FCA in the following terms:
Since the FCA is of the opinion  thatour PI insurers,  will not be able to cover any redress  
by virtue of the fact that [RF] was acting outside the remit of regulated activity, the victims 
are thus left in the unfortunate and unfair position  of not being  able to receive any redress 
whatsoever.
Ref: DRN085052219Ensuring its agents were  only given authority to operate within the scope of its own 
permissions was Abanas responsibility. As Ive already  set out, it was aware of what 
activities RF was undertaking.  Even  if it didnt realise what  he was doing  would have  the 
effect of nullifying or being beyond its insurance cover  because his activities  fell outside  the 
scope of Abanas permissions, it shouldve realised  this.
So, I think Abanas initial acceptance of the review process and the redress proposals is 
significant and is another  indication that it had in fact given RF authority to act on its behalf  in 
arranging SIPPs, such as Mr Ls.
Abanas website
Abanas website  around the time of the events  complained about appears to have shown  RF 
listed as a pensions/financial adviser and part of The Abana Team. It includes a photo of 
an individual that purports to be him. We obtained  this information from an online resource.  
RFs details remained on the Abana website until at least  December 2014.
Abana disputed  these  matters. For example, it says the historic  website  pages  referenced 
were draft. It says RFs description  is incomplete  and this shows  he didnt make it onto the 
Abana team. It told us the supposed  photo  of RF wasnt him.
Abanas argument here has some merit. Ive checked and the image that appeared on its 
website wasnt RF. And I dont know whether RFs details were published externally or as 
Abana suggests the pages  were just draft.
However, in the context  of everything  else Ive seen, I find the fact the web pages exist at all 
is in itself significant and more likely than not reflective of a close association between  the 
parties. And it therefore bolsters the evidence that RF was acting with Abanas actual 
authority in conducting pensions activities such as arranging SIPPs.  
Abanas engagement with the FCA in 2015
In responding  to some earlier decisions which have been upheld  against it, Abana 
questioned the jurisdiction  of this Service citing communications it had previously with the 
FCA on this matter. I can see that Abanas Director  sought advice  on this matter  on 2 
February 2015. His email  was as follows:
Dear X, regarding FCA authorised firm 597069 Abana Lda. Thank you for advising  me 
earlier of the rule book  regarding  SIPP advice  I have read the following chapters that you 
referred me toMay we ask the following questions:1. Can we advise UK residents on 
SIPPs under  our inward passported UK branch IMD permissions?...
I can see the FCA responded  on 16 March 2015  saying (bolding  my emphasis):
In respect  of your question as to whether  you can advise UK residents on SIPPs under an 
inward UK branch IMD passport. We understand that by UK residents you mean potential 
members or actual members  of SIPPS.  These types of schemes are set up under a trust 
arrangement whereby  the member is a beneficiary  of the trust and the benefits  to which  they 
are entitled  will be secured through the rights under the insurance  policy  being held by the 
trustee. Normally the trustee operates/holds a separate  scheme  and insurance contract for 
each member. On that basis the IMD passport would  not be sufficient and you would 
be required to seek a top-up permission.
Ref: DRN085052220This is because arranging to obtain  rights under an existing policy is not IMD business  and 
to be precise the member  would be entering  into a trust relationship not an insurance 
contract. Additionally, the IMD would not generally apply to post conclusion activities such as 
arranging deals in and advising on subsequent  transactionsSo the IMD would not extend  
to advice within the pension  (e.g. investment decisions on where to invest),  transfers 
of benefits to or from the pension and advising on and arranging the taking of 
benefits.
Rather than supporting its position  on jurisdiction, I think  this exchange  of emails in February  
and March 2015 is especially telling in that Abana still didnt know  until it received FCAs 
advice whether or not it had permission  to provide the services it had been up until that 
point.
Taking all these matters together with the other  information Ive already set-out in this 
decision, theres a weight  of evidence here. And Im satisfied this demonstrates RF was 
acting as an agent of Abana.
The position  adopted by Abana is that it was duped by RF and various other  parties, in 
respect of what happened  in this and other cases. Recently it quoted  a judgement  WM 
Morrison Supermarkets plc (Morrisons) v Various Claimants (Supreme Court, 1 April 2020. 
It draws on this outcome  to infer that a principle cant  be held responsible  for a dishonest 
agent.
Leaving aside that again it seems  to be accepting something which it has previously argued 
against i.e. that RF was its agent, I dont  find the facts and circumstances of the particular 
Supreme Court judgement it quotes  to be telling in this matter.
I think Abana was aware of, expected, facilitated,  guided and benefitted  from the activities  
RF was undertaking,  including  giving advice on and making arrangements  for SIPPs. I think 
RF had its actual authority  to do this on its behalf.  
Even if Abana wasnt fully aware of everything  RF was doing, as Ill set out later, that isnt a 
defence here. It had to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs  responsibly  
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. So, I think  Abana  is responsible  
for RFs acts and omissions.
The arrangements  in this case involved more than just pensions  business   RF also made 
arrangements for the ePortfolio Solutions bond  and unregulated investments, for example 
including his details  on Mr Ls application form and facilitating that business. But, even if 
Abana didnt give its actual  authority  for RF to conduct these matters  (and only intended him 
to be carrying on pension  business), theres well established case law that if theres one act 
that was authorised by the principal,  we may be able to look at other acts linked to it.
In Martin v Britannia [1999]  EWHC 852 (Ch) (21 December 1999) and Tenetconnect 
Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman  and another  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) (13 March  
2018), the courts held that advice couldnt be confined to one part of an overall  transaction 
and that acts can be intrinsically linked.  The arrangement  of the SIPP  and the subsequent 
investments in unregulated funds were so closely connected that they were intrinsically 
linked  part of the same transaction.
Ref: DRN085052221So, I think Abana can be held responsible for the arrangement of the transfer  of Mr Ls 
pension funds into the Avalon SIPP and the investments in unregulated funds, which 
together ultimately resulted  in the financial loss hes suffered.
my conclusions on jurisdiction
I conclude this is a complaint  that this Service can consider.  In summary this is because: 
Mr Ls complaint is about  both the advice and the arrangements  for the transfer of his 
OPS pensions to the Avalon SIPP and the investments made therein. So, its a complaint 
about regulated  activities.
It appears that MB was responsible for the advice given to Mr L to transfer his pensions.  
Whilst its clear  that behind the scenes RF was aware, I dont think there is enough to 
link RF to the actual advice process  and therefore to conclude that Abana  was 
responsible for the advice. However, the advice was just a vehicle to bring about the 
arrangements which  Im satisfied Abana is responsible for.
We can consider Mr Ls complaint about the arrangements made by RF. This is because  
Im satisfied  that he facilitated the transfer  of his pension to a SIPP  with Avalon  and the 
investments in the Kijani and SAMAIF funds as an agent with the actual authority of 
Abana. It follows that Abana is responsible for his acts and omissions  in this regard.
considering the merits of Mr Ls complaint 
As Im satisfied this Service has jurisdiction  to consider Mr Ls complaint about Abana in 
relation to the arrangements made by RF, Ive gone  on to consider all the available  evidence 
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And, 
after careful consideration, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ls case? 
The first thing I want to consider in relation to Mr Ls complaint is the extensive regulation 
around transactions like those performed  by RF who Im satisfied was acting  as Abanas 
agent. The FCA Handbook  contains  eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems
Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
Ref: DRN085052222exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like Abana. As such, I need  to have regard to them in 
deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
did Abana, through the acts and omissions of RF, adhere to the regulatory requirements 
placed on it in effecting the transfer of Mr Ls OPS funds into a SIPP?
In short,  I dont think Abana met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
In 2013 Mr L was approached by MB, who represented himself as being  associated with 
Abana. Hed known  MB prior to this, as hed got him good deals on his mortgage. MB told Mr 
L he was now getting into pensions with RF of Abana. 
Mr L said hed been told the investment in the SIPP and the unregulated funds would 
provide safe growth and outstrip his Occupational  Pension Scheme. He was led to believe 
what he was doing had no downside. Mr L has said he didnt really understand it but trusted 
what he was being told.
Mr L was persuaded  to transfer his entire retirement provision of over £189,000, built up over 
two periods totalling 20 years pensionable service  with his employer. The bulk of funds were 
invested in two unregulated funds through a business called ePortfolio Solutions. These 
were the Kijani  and SAMAIF funds  Ive already mentioned.
I find Mr Ls testimony plausible  and persuasive.  And I think its of note that Abana has never 
made the case that the transfer of the entirety of Mr Ls OPS  funds into the Avalon SIPP  and 
investments in unregulated funds was an appropriate or fair transaction.
As we know,  Mr Ls investments were made via a bond with a business called ePortfolio 
Solutions into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds, which were based overseas and unregulated.  
Unfortunately, by 2015 theyd been  suspended leaving him facing substantial losses.
Abana told us that following the intervention of the FCA a consultancy service  specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out a review of the suitability of certain 
pension advice and arrangements it had been associated with. This included Mr Ls case.
Ref: DRN085052223I think its significant that this specialist independent  third party  concluded in 2016  that RF, 
on behalf of Abana, had been  responsible  for what had happened.  And it set out how Abana 
should put things right. As we know it ultimately failed to act on the outcome of the review.
For the reasons  I set out earlier in this decision,  theres not enough evidence to conclude  
that MB provided the advice to Mr L on behalf  of Abana, so Im unable to say its responsible  
to him for that advice.
However, I think RF had a close association  with MB (advice) and KB who carried  out much 
of the administration. Not only were  they all involved in New Beginnings, testimony Ive seen 
suggests MB and KB worked closely with RF. MB and KB carried  out their work with the 
knowledge and approval of RF who was the leader  of the operation.
RFs details were included on Mr Ls ePortfolio  Solutions application, which gave effect  to 
him making  investments in unregulated funds. And detailed earlier he facilitated the transfer  
to the SIPP.  In both cases, the firm name used is Abana and its details were also supplied 
on the forms.
Given their close  working relationship, I think RF wouldve, or at the very least  shouldve, 
known that MB and KB werent covered by the same  agency arrangement he had with 
Abana. So, Mr L was being exposed to the risks associated with receiving unregulated 
advice. Not least a lack of access to effective dispute resolution and redress.
Theres nothing to show RF made  enquiries  about the advice  Mr L had received from MB 
concerning the transfer of his OPS  funds, the establishment of his SIPP or the underlying  
funds he was investing in. Before proceeding with the arrangements, I wouldve  expected  
him to have  satisfied  himself on these matters.
The transfer analysis,  although quite rudimentary shows  a critical yield of over 10% making  it 
clearly unsuitable  for someone of Mr Ls circumstances. Mr L was transferring guaranteed  
benefits that made up his entire  OPS  retirement  provision into a specialised and high risk 
investment. So Ive no doubt in my mind that RF wasnt acting with due skill, care or 
diligence when he effected Mr Ls transfer of his OPS into his Avalon SIPP  and the 
unregulated funds. He was in breach of Principle 2 and therefore so was Abana.
Abanas response to this Service  has largely focussed on why it wasnt  responsible  for what  
had happened, and how it was the fault of others.  Its failed to engage with the merits of this 
case, despite clear  evidence  of the relationship it had with RF. I wont rehearse the 
arguments already  made in my decision,  but Ive concluded that RF was acting as an agent 
of Abana  with its actual authority to arrange SIPPs.
Ive already mentioned the letter Abana sent to clients which I think  is very telling, it begins:
IMPORTANT: Advice given to you by Abana Lda ("Abana") in relation  to your SIPP 
with [SIPP Provider]Why are we writing  to you?
I am writing to you with reference to the advice you received by your former  advisor [RF] 
concerning your investments held with Asset Management International (AMI)  under your 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). It has recently come  to our attention that Abana 
were not authorised to give the advice  we gave to you regarding  your Investments as we do 
not have the correct regulatory permissions
Ref: DRN085052224In permitting RF to conduct  pensions business  Abana wouldve known or at the very least  
shouldve known that such activity was outside  of its regulatory permissions which were 
restricted to insurance mediation  activities. It didnt  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems.  And 
this is a breach  of Principle 3.
Theres no evidence Mr L was an experienced or sophisticated investor. Indeed, as Ive set 
out, quite the reverse  given  his testimony that he hadnt understood or remembered  the 
details of the reports prepared. A small amount of due diligence  wouldve exposed the 
arrangements being  made for him as inappropriate.
RF facilitated arrangements for the transfer  of Mr Ls entire  OPS  funds into a SIPP, which 
would be dealing in unregulated investments. He used his relationship with Avalon to open  a 
SIPP for Mr L using Abanas FCA authorisation details. In doing so, he led Avalon to believe 
Mr L had been  advised on the transaction and that this activity was done with Abanas  
authority.
In doing all this, RF wouldve been  aware Mr L was being exposed to significant  risks in the 
investments he was facilitating. For example,  theres no evidence Mr L had the capacity  to 
withstand potential  losses.
RF wouldve  known unregulated funds could  be Illiquid, meaning Mr L might  have difficulty 
getting access to his money. The funds  were highly specialised, out of the ordinary and 
reliant on third parties. And they were subject to valuation uncertainty. 
So, Im satisfied that RF didnt act honestly,  fairly and professionally, and in accordance with 
Mr Ls best interests, in relation to designated  investment  business  he was carrying out. He 
breached Principle 6 and COBS 2.1.1R, and Abana is responsible for his acts and 
omissions.
So, to conclude I dont  think  the transfer of Mr Ls OPS funds into an Avalon SIPP  and the 
unregulated investments with the Kijani and SAMAIF funds could sensibly be regarded  as 
fair to Mr L. 
As such I think  RF, as Abanas agent, failed  to meet the regulatory  requirements I have set 
out when making  these  arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of the case into 
account, it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint against Abana, and for Abana  to 
put things right.
putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ls case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
Abana responsible for.
If Abana had done everything it shouldve,  I dont think Mr L wouldve transferred his OPS 
funds into a Avalon  SIPP,  and so he wouldnt have suffered the financial loss hes 
experienced. I think he wouldve left his pension  funds where they were.
So, Abana needs to put things right in the following way:
Ref: DRN085052225So, Abana should calculate fair compensation by comparing the position he would be in, if 
he had not transferred. In summary, Abana should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr L has suffered as a result of making the transfer.  
2.Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ls share  in any investments that cannot  currently  
be redeemed.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ls SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
loss calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief  
and the effect  of charges. 
4.Pay Mr L the equivalent of five years  worth of SIPP  fees.
5.Pay Mr L £500 for trouble and upset.
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Abana, as mentioned, it should have the option  of payment of 
this redress being  contingent upon Mr L assigning any claim he may have against others in 
respect of this loss to Abana  but only in so far as Mr L is compensated  here. The terms of 
the assignment should require Abana to account to Mr L for any amount it subsequently 
recovers against the other parties that exceeds the loss paid to Mr L. 
I have explained  how Abana should carry out the calculation set out at above  in further detail 
below. 
1.Calculate the loss Mr L has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
Abana should undertake  a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
methodology, as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out using the most  recent financial assumptions at 
the date of the actual calculation. Abana may wish to contact the Department for 
Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls contribution history to the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  
scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P entitlement.
Any existing value  of the investment should be covered  by the next step.  
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be 
redeemed.
Its likely  that the SIPP  only exists because of the investment unregulated 
investments made in 2014. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees 
to be prevented, the investments need  to be removed from the SIPP.
To do this Abana should reach an amount it is willing to accept as a commercial 
value for the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the 
relevant investments.
Ref: DRN085052226If Abana is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investment  the value of it should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Abana may ask Mr L to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of 
any payment the SIPP may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr L may receive from the 
investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access  from the SIPP. Abana 
will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ls SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
loss calculated in (1). 
If the calculation  in (1) demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if 
possible be paid into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance 
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional  
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 
25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
4.SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed  from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed 
after compensation has been  paid,  Abana should pay Mr L an amount equivalent to 
five years of future fees, to ensure its unlikely Mr L will have to pay further fees for 
holding the SIPP. Five years should  allow enough time for the issues with the 
investments to be dealt  with, and for them to be removed  from the SIPP. 
If, after five years, Abana wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain  an 
undertaking for any future  payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any 
further future  SIPP fees. If Abana fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr L should  then have  
the option of trying to cancel the investments  to allow the SIPP to be closed.
5.Trouble and upset
I also think Mr L has been caused upset as a result of Abanas  actions.  The sudden 
loss of nearly all his pension fund would  have come as a shock to him, and has 
clearly had a significant  impact.  I think it would be fair and reasonable for Abana to 
pay Mr L £500 compensation for this.
Where we consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that 
might exceed £150,000,  this service  may recommend that the business pays the 
balance.
Its highly likely the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation will 
exceed the £150,000, so I also recommend  Abana  Unipessoal  Lda pays Mr L the 
balance.
Ref: DRN085052227The recommendation to pay over the £150,000 limit isnt part of my determination or 
award. It wouldnt bind Abana Unipessoal  Lda. Its unlikely that Mr L can accept an 
offer made by Abana Unipessoal Lda and go to court to ask for the balance of the 
compensation owing  to him. And so Mr L may want to consider  getting independent 
advice.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained I uphold Mr Ls complaint against Abana  Unipessoal  Lda. And I 
direct it to put thing  right as detailed in the above putting things right section of this decision.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of Mr Ls acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0850522