K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) unfairly charged her for damage to a 
car she handed back when she terminated  her hire purchase agreement.  
background
Miss E voluntary terminated  her hire purchase agreement  in August 2018. PSA had one of 
its collection agents inspect the car before picking up it from Miss E. It recorded scuffs or 
scratches on all four wheel trims and told Miss E she would be charged £16 for the 
replacement of each  trim  a total of £64.  
Miss E disagreed with the inspection findings.  She said the terms of her agreement 
specifically set out the kind of damage that was not acceptable and scuffs/scratches to the 
wheels is not mentioned  within this section. 
PSA says the damage to the wheels is beyond fair wear and tear so it is permitted  to charge 
Miss E for the damage under  the terms of her hire purchase agreement. 
Our investigator didnt  think Miss Es complaint should be upheld. He said the terms of Miss 
Es agreement did permit PSA to charge her more  generally for damage to the car. And he 
thought the damage was in excess of what accepted  industry guidance deems fair wear and 
tear. 
Miss E didnt agree with the investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E says PSA had no basis to charge  her for scuffs and scratches to the wheel trims  on 
the car. Ive looked at the relevant  parts  of her agreement. Under  the heading termination: 
your rights  the agreement  sets out:
If you have already paid at least this amount (half of the agreement) plus any 
overdue instalments  and have taken reasonable care of the goods,  you will not have 
to pay any more.  
Reasonable care  isnt specifically defined in the terms and conditions of Miss Es 
agreement but good condition is. And it was a term of Miss Es agreement that she keep 
the car in good condition anyway.  So I think I can consider  both terms together,  along with 
industry guidance, in deciding  what reasonable care might look like. 
Ref: DRN05780302Miss E says the damage to the wheel trims is not specifically  mentioned  in the part of her 
agreement that refers to unacceptable damage. But under the heading scratches  it says 
prominent scratches to chrome/bright  metal/inserts  constitute abnormal  wear and tear and 
multiple scratches to the finish that cannot be removed by buffing constitute abnormal wear.   
I think the wheel trims  on Miss Es car were inserts  given the way they are fitted to the car. 
And I think the definition  of scratches  probably  does catch this kind of damage to the wheels 
anyway even if they are not. 
Ive looked at the pictures of each  wheel that were  taken  by the collection agent when it 
picked up Miss Es car and described  below the damage that I can see: 
Right front wheel trim: there  is some  minor  visible scratching  on the spoke and scuffs  on the 
rim. 
Right rear wheel trim: again  there  is visible scratching on the spoke and scuffs on the rim.
Left rear wheel trim: there is less scratching  on the spoke but scuffs on the rim.
Left front wheel trim: there are some  scuffs on the rim.
I think the scratches and scuffs on the wheels are reasonably prominent  insofar  as they do 
stand out in the pictures weve been given. 
But the terms and conditions arent  the only thing I take into account in deciding  whether the 
charges are reasonable. To help me decide whether its fair to charge for the damage and 
whether Miss E has taken reasonable care of the car, Ive also taken account of The British 
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA)  guide The Industry  Fair Wear  & Tear 
Standard. This sets out industry  standards for acceptable damage for drivers  of leased and 
financed cars. The relevant  section on wheels sets out that scuffs  on the circumference of a 
wheel trim exceeding 50mm are not acceptable.
I think the damage to wheel trims  does  exceed  what the BVRLA  guidance considers 
acceptable. There are scuffs exceeding 50mm  on all four wheel trims.
I also think the kind of damage is likely to have caused PSA to have incurred some  financial 
loss  either by having to replace the wheel  trims  or the subsequent potential loss in value of 
the car that such  damage may have resulted in. 
So having  considered all of the circumstances in this case, I think  the damage  to the wheels 
was beyond what was acceptable. I dont think PSA has unfairly charged Miss E in this case 
and I dont require  it to do any more. 
Ref: DRN05780303my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Miss Es 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0578030