K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of a charity, A, that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading 
as Cashplus) has been withholding the closing balance of As account.
background
Mr S is one of the trustees of a charity which I will refer to as A. He has brought  this 
complaint on behalf of S, and he has also authorised  Mr S1, a volunteer, to represent the 
charity in this complaint.  Most of the correspondence in this complaint  has been with Mr S1.
The charity  had an account with Cashplus. Mr S is one of the account signatories; Mr S1 is 
not. The account was closed in October 2017, with a closing balance of £5,764.24. The 
essence of this complaint is that this balance has never been returned to the charity.
In its final response letter,  which was addressed to another trustee, Mr A, Cashplus said that 
it would  send Mr A a cheque for the closing  balance if he provided evidence,  in the form of 
two documents,  proving his residence  at the address where  the cheque  was to be sent. This 
was not done for some  time, and only after Mr S had brought  this complaint to our Service  
and obtained a decision from one of our investigators. The investigator did not uphold  this 
complaint initially,  as she thought that Cashplus was entitled  to ask for this evidence before 
sending the cheque. Mr S and Mr S1 did not challenge that decision.  That was in July 2018.
Meanwhile, Mr S had also brought an identical complaint about Cashplus on behalf  of 
another charity, with the same outcome. After the investigators decisions, Cashplus sent 
Mr S a cheque for £18,100, which was for a payment which had been  sent from one of the 
charities to the other but then returned  due to the receiving account being  blocked at the 
time. Subsequently, Mr S told us that Mr S1 had since  provided Cashplus with the requested  
proof of address,  and he pointed out that Cashplus hadnt waited for that evidence before 
sending that cheque. So he asked  why Cashplus couldnt have just sent a cheque for 
£5,764.24 in the first place.
After that, Cashplus  told our investigator that it had actually paid the £5,764.24 to a bank 
account in November 2017, and provided the sort code and account number. Mr S1 said that 
this account had nothing to do with A. He said that Cashplus had told him that it had paid the 
money to As PayPal  account, and he provided PayPal statements to prove that no such  
payment had been made. Cashplus denies that anyone would have discussed the matter  
with Mr S1, because he was not an account  signatory  or a trustee of A.
The investigator pointed  out (in August 2019)  that what Cashplus  had told her about  having 
made the payment in November 2017 contradicted what it had said in its final response  
letter. That letter, dated 7 March 2018, said that Cashplus still had the £5,764.24, and would 
send a cheque  for that amount once Mr A had provided proof of his address. When  the 
investigator did not receive a response from Cashplus, she re-opened  this complaint (which 
had been closed since her original decision was issued), and issued a second decision in 
February 2020, this time upholding this complaint. She said that there was no evidence  that 
Cashplus had paid the money  to A, and she thought  that the money had either been paid to 
the wrong account or had bounced back to Cashplus. She said that Cashplus should pay 
£5,764.24 to A.
Ref: DRN09829392Cashplus did not accept  that decision. In April 2020 it said (for the first time) that the money 
had been recalled by the remitting bank, and so it was not available to be returned to the 
charity. In May, this case was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Cashplus for evidence of what it had told us in April. In response, Cashplus said that 
the payment it had made in November  2017 had been returned four days  later. I accept that 
is true, because the final response letter in 2018  said that Cashplus still had the money.  
Cashplus also sent evidence showing  that in January 2019 it had told someone representing 
the charity that the money had been  recalled by the sending bank. But it didnt send 
evidence to verify that this was correct.
I asked Cashplus for evidence of what had happened between November 2017 and 
January 2019,  but I received no reply, despite  sending  chasing emails.
As I have said above, Cashpluss final response  letter in March 2018 clearly  stated  that it still 
had the money  then  and that this money  was available and would be sent to A once 
Cashplus had received proof of residence  at an address it could send a cheque  to. So its 
clear that no further  action  had been  taken  by anyone after the payment was returned in 
November 2017.
I have seen no evidence  to show that the money  was recalled by the sending  bank between  
March 2018 and January 2019. There is certainly no evidence that the money has ever been 
paid to A, and indeed  it no longer  appears  to be in dispute that A does not have  it. It is clear  
to me that Cashplus has given conflicting information to our investigator about what  
happened to the money,  so I dont think it would be wise of me to accept what it says about 
that without clear proof.
On the evidence before me, I am unable to safely conclude  that Cashplus no longer has the 
money. I therefore agree with the investigator  that it is fair and reasonable to order Cashplus 
to pay the money  to A.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Advanced Payment  Solutions  Limited  to 
pay A £5,764.24. This may be done by sending a cheque  to Mr S at the same address as it 
sent the cheque for £18,100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S (the trustee), 
on behalf of A, to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0982939