K822xComplaint
Mr D complains that ReAssure Limited hasnt  paid him the amount of annual annuity  it told 
him he would  receive.
Background
Mr D applied to take his pension benefits with ReAssure in May 2018. He had Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension benefits (GMP) included in his pension  which  may have been  lost if hed 
used this part of his pension to buy an annuity  through another  provider,  or transferred his 
whole pension elsewhere. He opted to receive  a tax-free cash  lump sum and bought an 
annuity through ReAssure with the remainder of his pension.
But when Mr D received  the first payment  from the annuity, he phoned ReAssure to query 
the amount as it was less than hed thought.  He said hed been quoted an annual annuity of 
£5,988 several  times but the payment hed received meant the actual annuity  amount was 
£5,538 - £450 less each year.
ReAssure said that the lower  figure  was correct  but acknowledged that there had been a 
mistake in a letter it had sent him which had wrongly  shown  the higher figure. It said it had 
confirmed the value verbally  on a number of occasions and apologised  if it wasnt made 
clear that this was the current value and wasnt guaranteed. It said the value of the pension 
policy was calculated at the close of business  on the day it had received Mr Ds application 
form for the annuity  and tax-free lump  sum.
ReAssure offered Mr D £300 as an apology and said it would  extend  the time he had in 
which he could change  his mind about  taking  out the annuity.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought ReAssures offer was 
reasonable. She agreed that it shouldve provided  a better service  to Mr D but felt it wasnt  
fair that someone  should get more than they were entitled to because  a mistake was made  
with the information it provided.
Mr D didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He wanted to establish exactly what had 
happened and why the mistake had been made. Mr D questioned the key dates and the 
rates used as he said the figures  hed been  quoted in the two months  before his retirement  
date, were then the same  as the final figures.  He feels he was told the higher  annuity 
amount many times  and this is what he based his acceptance on. Mr D doesnt feel that hes 
been given a reason as to why the mistake was made, and feels ReAssure had the 
opportunity to correct  it before paying  out the annuity. He wants  ReAssure to honour the 
amount he feels he agreed to accept. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling about whats happened here, and how he 
feels this has a long term effect on his income during his retirement. I can see that he made 
his decision to accept  the annuity  offered by ReAssure on the basis  of the payments he 
expected to receive.
Ref: DRN00220172Ive gone over all the information provided  and the communication  Mr D received about his 
annuity amount.  
Mr D received a letter  in February  2018 showing an annuity amount of £7,731.96. However, 
this was calculated  on the basis that he wasnt taking  a tax-free cash  lump  sum. He then 
received a breakdown of the figures in a letter dated  10 April 2018 where it set out the 
amount of the GMP as £2,886.60 and the annuity  amount based on the remaining value of 
the pension at that time as £2,651.88. Together these are £5,538.48.   
Looking over all the correspondence Mr D received, it seems that that the calculated  figures  
for an annuity without  taking the tax-free cash were incorrect  in a letter dated 27 April, and 
then the forms Mr D completed dated  8 May contained the wrong figures for the excess 
annuity after the GMP of £3,101.76, which gave the higher figure of £5,988.36 overall.
I can see that the more  recent letters Mr D received  about his pension  gave him incorrect 
figures, and importantly this included the forms he went on to compete to take his pension.  
Mr D also looked to phone and email to question  the figures and felt reassured that he would 
be receiving an annuity of £5,988.36. So I can understand  why he wants  a more  detailed 
explanation about why this mistake was made.
ReAssure has acknowledged  that it made mistakes in its communications  with Mr D. I know 
that he would like to know exactly what happened  and why. Ive sought further explanation 
about this from ReAssure to look to gain an understanding of the underlying  figures that led 
to the calculation of Mr Ds annuity. This is because I want  to make  sure that Mr D is 
receiving the right amount. 
The underlying calculations used to achieve the figures for the annuity  quotation are 
somewhat complicated  and take into account  different factors.  And the incorrect, higher 
quotations Mr D received were based on one of these factors  not being true to Mr Ds 
situation. This is what led to incorrect quotes  being sent in April and May.
Its disappointing these  mistakes werent spotted  earlier, as this may have resolved matters 
for Mr D, or helped with his understanding of the situation with his annuity. However, I need 
to decide how best to put him in the position  he wouldve been in had these mistakes not 
been made.
Although I can understand that Mr D will be disappointed, I dont think  ReAssure should  be 
required to honour  the incorrect higher figure for his annuity, when this isnt what hes 
entitled to from the pension  pot hed built up at the time he took it. 
Not all of the information  he received from ReAssure gave the exact details of the amounts 
he could receive  if he chose to take his tax-free  cash then use his remaining pension pot to 
buy an annuity after his GMP. And I know hes asked why the earlier  figures were the same  
as the final figures,  when  they could fluctuate. But they were  based on his pension details at 
the time they were produced. Although he probably wouldnt have expected  a significant 
change in the amounts when he applied for his annuity, it doesnt mean he should be 
entitled to those incorrect figures.  
Ref: DRN00220173Its possible that Mr D wouldve taken his benefits in a different way if he had been given the 
correct (lower)  amounts before he made his choice. However, even if that was the case, 
during the complaint ReAssure gave  Mr D additional time to consider his options and 
confirmed the process  should he wish to cancel the annuity. I appreciate  that Mr D was away  
abroad and so may not have had the time or opportunity to take up these options,  however, I 
think what ReAssure offered was reasonable. It has also offered Mr D £300 to represent the 
upset he was caused and I think is fair to recognise his loss of expectation.
My final decision
My decision  is that ReAssure Limited should  pay Mr D £300, as its already offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0022017