K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that HSBC UK Bank  plc is holding her liable for a large number of cash 
machine withdrawals that were made using her debit card.  She says she didnt make or 
authorise them and that HSBC should therefore  refund  them. 
background
Over a period  of nearly four months Ms Es debit card was used  to make more than 20 cash 
machine withdrawals that she says she doesnt  recognise. All the withdrawals were  made  at 
the same  cash machine  a short walk from Ms Es home. The total involved is nearly  £5,000.  
HSBC looked  into what had happened. It said however that all the withdrawals had been 
made using  Ms Es genuine  card (not a clone or copy) and the correct PIN. There  were 
many other transactions made using Ms Es card over the same  period as the disputed 
withdrawals, indicating that her card hadnt been stolen. Some had been  made  within 
minutes of the disputed  withdrawals. 
HSBC also noted  that Ms E had made balance enquiries over the same  period, but hadnt  
suggested anything  was wrong.  It concluded that Ms E had most likely authorised the 
withdrawals. 
Ms E didnt accept the banks conclusions and referred the matter  to this service,  where  one 
of our investigators considered it. In the course  of that investigation, Ms E provided some  
further information which identified who might have  been responsible for the withdrawals. 
Ultimately, however, the investigator concluded that it was likely that Ms E had authorised 
the withdrawals. Ms E asked that an ombudsman review the matter.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
First, Im satisfied that all the withdrawals were  made using the genuine card and the correct  
PIN. HSBCs  records show  that the chip embedded in the card was read on each occasion,  
as Id expect where a UK cash machine is used. That makes it extremely  unlikely that a copy 
or clone  of the card was used. 
Ms E says she didnt  keep  a record of the PIN, and I accept that. Its not possible however to 
obtain the PIN from the card itself, and its unlikely that anyone  would  be able to guess it. I 
must therefore consider how, if Ms E wasnt responsible for the withdrawals, anyone else 
could have obtained and used her card on several occasions  over a period of more than 
three months without  her noticing. And in considering that, I must also ask how that person 
could have returned the card to Ms E, sometimes within minutes of using  it themselves.  
Ms E said shed never  used the cash machine  in question and that she wouldnt do so 
because it charges a fee, and she wouldnt use a machine that did that. In fact, it appears 
she had used that machine in the past and very occasionally used machines with charges. 
But, by and large, what she said about  that was correct, and I dont think  its significant that 
she may have overlooked  a small level of use that was out of character for her.      
Ref: DRN04472992As Ive indicated, however, Ms E did identify someone who might  have been  in a position  to 
make withdrawals over a period of several months. But, even if that person had been able to 
take her card,  they would still have  needed to know the PIN. They  would also have been 
able to return it to Ms E, sometimes within minutes of using it. I dont believe that anyone 
using the card without  Ms Es authority would have  been able to do that, and certainly not on 
several occasions over such a long period. 
In my view there are only three possible explanations here.  They are:
Ms E made the withdrawals herself;  
she allowed someone else to make them; or 
she allowed someone else to use her card and PIN, but they used them  to make 
withdrawals she didnt  know  about.  
Its possible too of course  that the withdrawals  were the result  of a combination of these. But 
whether Ms E made them, authorised someone else to make them or freely let someone use 
her card and PIN, I dont believe it would be fair to say that HSBC should refund them. I 
dont therefore  need to decide which of the three  explanations (or combination  of them)  is 
the most  likely here. 
It may be that Ms E has been a victim here  if the third explanation  is the correct  one. If so, 
she has my sympathy. But, of itself, thats  not a reason why HSBC should  refund the 
withdrawals.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything  more to resolve  Ms 
Es complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms 
E to accept  or reject  my decision before 7 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0447299