K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about incorrect information provided by Elderbridge Limited which  
lead them to believe their loan would end sooner than it will. 
background
Mr and Mrs M had a secured loan with another lender which was transferred to Elderbridge.
Mr and Mrs M spoke  with Elderbridge in 2017  about  increasing their payments to pay off 
their loan sooner.  They were told if they increased  it to the proposed  amount, they would 
repay their loan in September 2019. This information was incorrect and based  on the new 
payment, the loan wont actually be repaid until December 2019. Mr and Mrs M complained 
to Elderbridge about this.
Elderbridge agreed  it had given them incorrect information. It also agreed  it had added some 
legal fees to their account which it shouldnt have done. It removed the legal fees, 
apologised and paid £100 compensation. Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this and referred  
the complaint  to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She thought Elderbridge  had given 
Mr and Mrs M incorrect information  on a number of occasions. She recommended it pay her 
a further £400 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Mr and Mrs M accepted our investigators findings.  Elderbridge didnt agree. It said an 
additional £400 was too much and maintained the £100 it had paid was a fair amount. 
Elderbridge asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Elderbridge gave Mr and Mrs M incorrect information.  And this led them 
to believe their loan would  be paid off quicker than it actually wouldve been. This has also 
been made worse  by the fact that Elderbridge told Mr and Mrs M it was going to add some  
historic legal fees to their account. Its since refunded these fees. So I need to decide 
whether the offer of £100 compensation is fair.
Mr and Mrs M were  actively trying  to sort out their finances and make plans to repay the loan 
sooner. I dont know whether they wouldve increased their payments to the required amount 
had they been told the correct amount they would  need to pay to have their loan finish in 
September this year.  But they werent  given the opportunity to make this decision. And 
finding out recently that their loan will not end when they expected  it to mustve been very 
upsetting. They are now in a position where they have to find and make more  payments than 
they had planned to.
Elderbridge has already  paid £100  compensation. But it seems this was also to acknowledge 
the legal  fees it told Mr and Mrs M it would  add to their balance,  which  it then decided  it 
shouldnt have added. I agree with our investigator that £100 compensation isnt a fair 
amount. I think the investigators suggestion  of a further £400 is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN05958782my final decision
My final decision is Elderbridge Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs M a further £400 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  the incorrect  information has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0595878