K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that he didnt receive a return of the initial charge on his investment as he 
was told by Lloyds  Bank  plc.
background
Mr T took out an investment through Lloyds in 2011.  Lloyds advisor recommended  that he 
should put £100,000  into an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC)  and £5,340 into an 
Individual Savings Account (ISA), to use his ISA allowance for that tax-year. These were to 
be invested in a capital protected fund which  aimed to provide a protected minimum amount 
and growth linked to the performance of a stock market index. 
The investment had an initial charge of 7.81%, which Mr T was told would be refunded if he 
kept it for at least six years, which he did. 
Mr T surrendered his OEIC investment and transferred his ISA in 2018. But he complained 
that the initial charge hadnt  been  returned to him. He said it had been taken off before his 
money was invested  and asked why the amount  hadnt come back to him as a separate  
amount.
Lloyds said that the surrender value of Mr Ts investments was calculated  based on the full 
amount of his original  investment of £105,340  which therefore included the amount of the 
initial charge.
However it apologised for the time Mr T had spent on the phone  to make his complaint. It 
paid him £18 to cover  his call costs and £50 for his inconvenience.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. He said 
the amount of the initial charge was taken from the invested sum and was then returned to 
Mr T as part of his full surrender value. Although an itemised statement showing this couldnt 
be provided, the investigator  said the terms of the investment were that the initial  charge  
would be part of what he got back, not paid separately. 
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He said the difference in the share  price  at the 
start and finish showed that the initial charge hadnt been returned  to him.
Our investigator asked  Lloyds about  this point  and it provided further clarification  on the way 
Mr Ts surrender value had been  calculated and how the initial charge was included.  The 
investigator explained this to Mr T but he didnt agree  with the calculations and asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I do understand all the points Mr T has made,  and the reasons  why he thinks the initial  
charge wasnt returned to him as he was told. I can see that the explanation and calculation 
is complex, and the amalgamation of the charge  within the total amount returned  isnt the 
same as the way it was deducted initially and isnt shown separately as he expected.
Ref: DRN07551752Ive looked through the information Mr T was given about the investment plan and the initial 
charge is explained in both the key facts document and the product information booklet. The 
key facts say the initial charge is: a percentage of your payment  that is deducted before 
shares are bought.  If you keep your investment to the Protection Date, the cost of the initial  
charge is returned  to you as part of what you get back. The Initial  Charge for the Fund is 
7.81 %.
And the product information booklet says: You'll pay an initial charge of 7.81% of your 
original investment. This is taken before your shares in the Fund are bought. So for example, 
if you invested £10,000, the initial charge would be £781 and £9,219 would be used  to buy 
shares in the Fund. As the Fund aims  to protect  your original investment, the cost of the 
initial charge  is returned  to you at the end of the term as part of the money you should get 
back if you keep your whole investment until the Protection Date..
Although I can understand how seeing the return of the initial charge as a separate figure or 
payment may have  reassured Mr T he was receiving it back,  I think these documents  are 
both clear that it is returned as part of the money the customer gets back. 
So Ive looked  at the way in which the final values  of Mr Ts investments were calculated and 
the explanation of how these figures  came  about. And I can see that the initial charge Mr T 
paid has been  included in what he received. 
I say this because  Mr Ts investment was structured to give a protected minimum amount as 
well as potential growth linked to the performance of the stock market.  It has a Capital  
Protected Price which was the minimum share price it aimed to return  at a set Protection 
Date  this would be what Mr T would get back  if there  was no growth in the stock  market 
over the time of the investment.
Although Mr Ts investments were bought with a share price of 100.1p, his Capital Protected 
Price was 108.7p. This can be seen in the figures  hes sent us from his own paperwork. 
The shares in Mr Ts investment were bought after the deduction of the initial charge. And if 
this number of shares is multiplied by the Capital  Protected Price,  it gives  a value of 
£105,456.93  slightly more than the total investment  he made before the charge was 
deducted. And this is what  Mr T wouldve got back without any growth in the stock  market 
meaning that his initial  charge wouldve been  returned him. 
However, the investment did provide Mr T with a return of 26.73%  which  was applied to the 
Capital Protected  Price of 108.7p and rounded up to give the share price used at surrender  
of 137.8p. 
I know that Mr T has referred to other  share prices quoted in the images  from his statements 
hes sent us. But these seem to be the share price at the time they were produced (February 
2013 and 2017), rather than the Capital Protected  Price. 
And I can understand that Mr T has based his own workings out on the amount of shares he 
had. But its within the Capital Protected Price  (108.7p) that the initial  charge  is effectively  
returned as this is used as the basis for the final share price, rather than the price the shares 
were bought at (100.1p).
Ref: DRN07551753Overall, I think that Lloyds has demonstrated  that the initial charge Mr T paid was returned to 
him as part of the total value he got back and I dont think he was given the wrong 
information about this when the investment was sold to him. 
Lloyds has paid Mr T £68 in compensation Mr T for the time he spent on the phone  and his 
call costs, and I dont  think it needs to do any more to resolve his complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0755175