K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont refund two payments that were  taken 
from her current  account even though shed returned the items to the merchant. 
background
Ms F placed two orders with an online retailer, one on 11 January 2018 and a second on 
26 March 2018.  Ms F says she returned all the items shed ordered but she hasnt received 
any refunds from the retailer. 
On 23 April 2018, Ms F contacted Nationwide to raise a dispute and to claim  her money 
back via a chargeback.  Nationwide  wrote  to Ms F asking for some further information. Ms F 
says she provided this information during a branch  visit on 18 June 2018. Nationwide  says it 
never received it. 
When Ms F contacted Nationwide in July 2018 to find out what was happening, Nationwide 
told her it hadnt received  the information it needed to progress things. And, by that time, the 
transactions were  outside the permitted  timescales  for submitting the chargeback request.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Nationwide had made a mistake. He found nothing to support 
what Ms F said about visiting the branch on 18 June  2018 and that it received any 
documents from her at this time. So he didnt think Nationwide had done  anything wrong by 
not raising a chargeback since it knew it was unlikely to be successful without the 
information it asked  Ms F to provide.
Ms F disagreed with the adjudicator. She said CCTV footage would show  her in the branch 
on 18 June and that, in response to the final response letter, shed  called Nationwide and 
she received a call back  from the branch manager  to say she had been in to the branch as 
she says. 
Because Ms F disagreed  with adjudicators view, the complaints been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Nationwide  
has made a mistake.  
Nationwide dont have  to process  chargebacks but its considered  good practice to do so. 
Having looked  at the records Im satisfied that Nationwide  set up Ms Fs dispute promptly  
and requested the information it needed  from her straight away.  
Its not up to Nationwide to decide  if the chargeback is successful, thats up to the card 
scheme, Visa in this case. And the scheme  rules require certain information to be submitted 
with the chargeback. Having looked at those rules and the letter Nationwide  sent Ms F, I 
think it asked for the right information. So I dont think its unreasonable  that it didnt start the 
chargeback without this information.  
Chargeback rules usually  limit the timescales in which a chargeback can be raised. In Ms Fs 
case, the rules  required that the chargeback was submitted  within 120 days of the original 
transaction. I think it wouldve been  helpful  for Nationwide to have told Ms F about  the 
Ref: DRN09432202timescale when she first asked it to raise a chargeback   it doesnt look like this was 
explained. But I dont  think  it wouldve  made a difference  to the outcome of her complaint. 
I say this because  Ms F says she went to the branch  on 18 June 2018 with the documents 
requested. She says therell be a record  of her visit because she was asked to present her 
card and enter her PIN. But that visit took place more than 120 days  after the first 
transaction - which had taken place on 11 January  so I dont think a chargeback for the 
first transaction wouldve  been successful in any event. 
Ms F says the documents were photocopied and she was told theyd be sent to the right 
team. But Nationwide has provided  its contact  notes for Ms Fs account and an email  from its 
branch manager.  The branch manager  says that no one in the branch remembers  helping  
Ms F with the chargeback  documents. 
Nationwide also says normally it would expect  the contact notes to show  that Ms F visited  
the branch  and I can see that other visits Ms F has made  to the branch  have  been  noted, 
including the visit where she first raised the dispute about these transactions.  But theres no 
record of Ms F going into the branch on 18 June 2018 or Nationwide receiving the 
documents, including nothing  to indicate she used her card and PIN in the branch that day. 
Theres also no record of the calls she says she received from the branch manager 
acknowledging that she had visited the branch.
So, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms F  I agree with the adjudicator. Theres no evidence to 
support her assertion that Nationwide  received the documents it needed from her and so I 
dont think its done anything wrong by not submitting the chargeback  request. And, since I 
dont think Nationwide  has done  anything wrong,  I cant fairly require it to refund the 
payments. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0943220