K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that she took out an endowment policy with a Scottish  Widows  Limited-
linked business  on the basis that it would pay out the amount owed on her interest-only  
mortgage at the end of its term, and it is not entitled  to reduce this sum by nearly 30%.
background
Scottish Widows  said it had operated  this investment policy in line with the terms and 
conditions. Returns had been  lower  than predicted  and it was never guaranteed to pay out a 
specific sum, such as a particular mortgage debt.
An investigator at this service agreed, and said that an independent advisor  had 
recommended this policy as a means of mortgage  protection, and so any complaint about 
this advice or the suitability of the policy needed  to be addressed to him or her rather than 
Scottish Widows.
He also noted  that Scottish  Widows had sent Ms H numerous letters,  over the past decade,  
warning her that the final pay-out was very unlikely  to meet her mortgage debt.
Ms H did not agree,  and said:
There was never  any prospect of this product delivering the £51,300 she required 
and was led to believe would materialise
The shortfall of fall of 29% shows this product was faulty; in similar circumstances a 
manufacturer would  be required to return the money spent on it
The shortfall does  not even reflect the FTSEs return  since 2013, significantly 
underperforming this. This demonstrates that the business has not managed this 
fund properly, something a company of this size and history  ought to be able to do
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. As such I am not sure 
what I can add to the explanation he gave in various  letters  to Ms H.
As the investigator  explained, there is a clear separation of responsibilities between the 
financial advisor who recommended this policy and Scottish Widows.  It is the former  who,  
rightly or wrongly, appeared to recommend that Ms H take out an interest-only mortgage  
with the eventual debt being  paid off by an endowment  investment plan. It was s/he who was 
responsible for explaining that such a plan could not guarantee this outcome as investment 
returns are never guaranteed. As such, this was a risky means  of paying for a mortgage 
compared to a traditional repayment plan.
Scottish Widows  was solely responsible  for providing clear and accurate information and 
operating the plan in line with the terms and conditions.  I have  seen nothing  to suggest that it 
guaranteed a specific pay-out and could not possibly have done so given the value of 
Ref: DRN09092672investments inevitably  rise and fall. This is why many people  have argued that they were  not 
generally a suitable means  to pay off a specific debt.
Investment returns over the past 20 years  have fallen steadily and remained very low (by 
historical standards). This has meant  that most  investment  policies managed and sold by 
most businesses have seen far lower returns that earlier projections/predictions.  This does  
not mean a business has done something wrong. So I dont accept Ms Hs argument that the 
29% shortfall  in the projection offered in 1993  means Scottish Widows has acted  
inappropriately or unprofessionally.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0909267