K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about a default that has been recorded by Bank  of Scotland  plc against a 
credit card account he held with it. 
background
Mr A opened  a credit card account with Bank  of Scotland in July 2014.  He built up a balance 
on the card and made a payment towards  the outstanding balance  in August/September  
2014. This was the only payment made  to the account before Mr A was remanded  in 
custody towards the end of 2014.
The bank was notified Mr A was in prison  in November  2014. The bank then received a hand 
written message on a statement to explain  Mr A was in prison and couldnt make  payments 
in December 2014. By this time it had already sent arrears letters and a default notice.  
Although a letter of authority was received in January 2015 to discuss the account with his 
mother, this hadnt been  signed by Mr A. The letter also notified the customer had no income  
and would be homeless when released.  The account was later defaulted. Mr A has 
subsequently discovered the default  and complained as the bank didnt make him aware of 
the default. He complains  he would have been able to make alternative  arrangements had 
he been aware. Bank of Scotland didnt uphold his complaint and so he has asked us to look 
into it. 
Our investigator didnt  find Bank of Scotland had done anything  wrong. He was satisfied the 
bank had followed its usual processes  and procedures and that Mr As mother  was aware of 
the arrears correspondence as she was responding to the bank. He also wasnt  persuaded 
anything would be any different if the bank had written directly  to Mr A as no payment could 
be made. Mr A remains unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
When credit  information is recorded  by a bank or credit  provider  that information should  be a 
correct reflection of how the account  has been run. I would only ask a business to make  
changes to recorded information  if it was incorrect or if it hadnt  followed correct processes.   
Mr As last payment to the account  was made in August/September  2014. Following that Mr 
A continued to spend on the account. It attracted a late payment and over limit fees. The 
bank tried calling Mr A to discuss the account, without success.  
It wasnt until November 2014 that the bank was notified Mr A was in prison.  But Mr A didnt 
ask it to change  his correspondence address or give authority for someone else to discuss 
the account. So the bank  continued to send  letters  to the last known address. I dont find it 
was wrong to do so. Im satisfied the post was received as the banks records show Mr As 
mother contacted  it to let it know of his whereabouts and that no payments would be made.  
By sending  arrears letters and a default notice the bank  has followed the correct process. 
And because the bank  didnt receive  any payment arrangements  the account  was defaulted. 
Ref: DRN04627192Mr A says he would  have been  able to make other arrangements. I dont  find this 
persuasive. The bank  had been told that no payments would be made as Mr A didnt have 
an income. And if Mr A was able to make  other  arrangements then I question why he didnt 
do so in any event   he knew he had an outstanding balance  that would require repaying. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the bank has done  anything  wrong  and so I dont ask it to remove 
the default from the account history. 
my final decision
For the reasons  give, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0462719