K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Studio Retail Limited  is asking  her to repay a debt which she 
didnt run up.
background
Mrs M held an account with Studio for a number of years. In September 2017 two items  
were ordered on her account.  These  were  both delivered to a friends  boyfriends  address. 
She didnt  think she should pay for these items as they hadnt been bought with her 
permission.
This friend had formerly lived with Mrs M but no longer did. Studio noted that previous items 
had also been  sent to the same address as those  in September 2017. They didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong  in asking Mrs M to repay what  was owed on her account.
Mrs M brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. It was clear  what had happened. A friend of Mrs Ms 
had used her account and ordered  items on it. It was very difficult to tell whether this was 
done with Mrs Ms permission or not on this occasion. Mrs M accepted thered been an 
opportunity for the friend to use her account  previously  with her permission. He also noted 
Studio had no contractual relationship with Mrs Ms friend so couldnt  pursue her for the 
debt. He wasnt going to ask Studio to do anything different.
Mrs M disagreed with this outcome. She said shed continue to refuse  to pay Studio.
Her complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The basis  facts of this complaint  arent  in dispute.  Mrs M doesnt believe she should have to 
pay for items  that were delivered elsewhere  in September  2017.  She believes this was an 
order placed by someone who used to be a friend. Shed not given  her permission to do this. 
She blames  Studios procedures as this allows someone to place an order with just the 
account number  and the customers  date of birth and address.
I dont doubt that this information would be very simple for someone to obtain. And certainly 
for someone  whod  been a friend. Im also aware  that previously Mrs M had allowed her 
friend to use her account to place an order.
There are two scenarios  which suggest what may have happened here:
Mrs Ms friend acted without her knowledge or consent by placing this order;  or
Mrs M allowed her friend to place the order expecting her to repay her, as had 
happened previously. This then didnt happen.
Ref: DRN01968762Like our investigator,  I dont think its possible for us to know exactly  what  happened here. I 
dont think its clear  that what took place was fraud on the part of Mrs Ms friend. She may 
well have decided not to repay  what she owes Mrs M but that is a dispute between  those two 
individuals rather than one that concerns Studio.
The issue  isnt just about who placed the order but whos  liable for the debt. Theres  no 
doubt its Mrs M that has the contractual relationship with Studio. She has an account with 
them which she has repaid over a number of years. I absolutely understand why she doesnt 
want to repay what she owes Studio but I dont think Studio has done anything  wrong  in 
asking her to repay.
Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms account. I cant see anything there 
which would make me believe Studio has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Im aware Studio sold this debt to an external  debt recovery  company in January 2019.  
Theyd not received any payment from Mrs M since June 2018.  
I know Mrs M feels very strongly about  this issue but I dont believe Studio has done 
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint against  
Studio Retail  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0196876