K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in January. A copy is attached and forms part of this decision.  
I said, in summary, that I wasnt  intending to uphold this complaint. I thought it likely Mrs C 
was eligible for the policy  she bought and that it was otherwise suitable for her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has sent me any new information or evidence.  So I see no need to alter my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03823692complaint
Mrs C says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1990.  The policy was added  to
Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied for the card in person. It was sold by the
business providing the credit card, but Allianz  is responsible for any complaints.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because he thought Mrs C was ineligible  for the PPI,
as she hadnt  been working for all of the six months  immediately before she took out the PPI.
Allianz doesnt agree, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not currently intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  because:
I think Allianz made Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to 
take it  although I can understand why she can no longer remember  this. I say this
because the application form signed by Mrs C included  a section relating to PPI. 
There was a box available to be ticked if the applicant required PPI. On Mrs Cs 
application form, this box was ticked.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable
for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have
wanted this type of cover.
Mrs C might not have been eligible for the policy. I say that because  one of the
eligibility criteria  is that she must  have  been  employed for the six months  immediately
before she took out the PPI. Mrs C says shed been  made redundant a little while
before she got the card and PPI, and only started  a new job a month before. She 
says she wasnt working for three of the previous six months.
Id normally agree that this meant  Mrs C wasnt eligible for the policy.  However, Im
also going to take into account  the information  Mrs C provided  when  she took out the
card. Ive seen a copy of her application form. On that theres a question  asking Mrs 
C for how many years shed  been  in her present  job  and its completed as 01  so 
one year. I think its fair that I use that information  when deciding  if Mrs C was eligible 
for the policy, as it was recorded at the time, and doesnt rely on recollections of what
happened nearly thirty years ago. That means  I currently think  Mrs C was eligible for
the policy.
Other than on this point I cant see that Mrs C was affected by any of the policy
exclusions or limitations. The policy was competitively  priced and apparently
Ref: DRN03823693affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mrs C would have made a different decision if better
information had been provided.  On balance I think she would still have taken out the
policy.
Ill take into account any new comments or evidence Mrs C wants  to provide by the date
above before issuing  my final decision.
my provisional decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0382369