K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with how Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni Capital)  dealt with
her request  for a refund for a driving  course that she paid for using a fixed-sum  loan.
Background
In July 2017, Mrs C entered into two fixed-sum loan agreements with Omni Capital to fund
two HGV driving courses with a course  supplier who I will call supplier H. The courses were
to be taken by Mrs Cs son. One course was to obtain a category B licence  and the other
course was to obtain a category C licence.
Mrs C has no complaint  about the category  B HGV course, as her son completed this course
and so she was content to pay for it. However, Mrs C doesnt think  it fair that she should
have to pay for the category C HGV  course,  as her son didnt complete the course.
In July 2018, Mrs C contacted Omni  Capital to let it know  she wanted to cancel the
agreement.
Omni Capital  explained  to Mrs C that she would have to speak to supplier  H about  cancelling
the agreement. It explained that her automatic  right to cancel had expired 14 days  after she
had signed the agreement  and so she would need to reach  out to supplier H to see if it was
willing to allow her to cancel, but that this would be at supplier Hs discretion.
In September  2018, Mrs C wrote to supplier  H. She explained that her son had decided  to
leave the course  and wouldnt  be taking  the second  exam/qualification. Mrs C wanted  to
cancel any payments going forward and to have a refund of what she had already paid.
Mrs C also sent a copy of this letter to Omni Capital and told it again she wanted to cancel
the agreement. Mrs C also cancelled her monthly direct debit payment. Omni Capital 
reiterated that Mrs C would need to agree cancellation with supplier H and that would be at 
its discretion. It also advised Mrs C to re-instate  the direct debit to avoid any impact  on her
credit file, which Mrs C did. She also brought the account up-to-date.
In October  2018, supplier  H went into administration.
Having not received any reply from supplier H, Mrs C contacted Omni Capital again in March
2019 to make a complaint. In its final response  letter, Omni Capital said that supplier H had
since gone into liquidation. It said when something  like that happened its obligation was to
provide the services through  an alternative  supplier  in line with the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (CCA). Omni explained it had sourced a new supplier and that supplier would be in
touch with Mrs C shortly  to arrange the remainder of the training.
Unhappy with Omni Capitals response, Mrs C referred the complaint to our service.  She
said supplier H had gone into administration and she had been paying for a service that
could not be delivered in the anticipated  timeframe. She said she couldnt accept the offer of
an alternative service.
In later correspondence, Mrs C explained  she had contacted  supplier H and Omni Capital on
several occasions and didnt  get an answer.  She said she didnt think  it was fair to have to
pay for a service that hadnt  been  received and wouldnt ever be provided. She also
explained that taking the course with an alternative supplier wasnt  a suitable resolution as
Ref: DRN03497622her son had lost his driving license and it wasnt clear when he would get it back.
We asked Omni Capital for its comments on Mrs Cs complaint. It said because  Mrs C had
taken out the finance agreement,  but the course  was for her son, its liability for failings by
supplier H to provide  the service were  limited. However, it said because  it had written to
Mrs C offering to allow her son to complete the course with the alternative  supplier, it was
willing to honour  that offer.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Cs complaint. In summary, she thought that
because of the way in which the consumer protections offered by the CCA operate,  
specifically that here Mrs C had taken  out the finance agreement  for a course
for her son, she couldnt fairly ask Omni  Capital  to do any more.
Mrs C didnt think this was fair as she had been paying for a service which had not been
received, irrespective of what name was on the paperwork. Because  Mrs C didnt  agree  with
our investigator the matter  was passed  to me to make  a decision. 
On 4 March 2021,  I issued my provisional  findings.  I said the following:
A fixed-sum loan is a form of restricted credit. Fixed-sum loans are regulated loans  and there
are various rules and protections  about how they operate,  including  those set out in the
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Once the fixed-sum loan agreement is entered into, and provided  everything goes to plan,
the finance supplier, in this case Omni Capital, then pays the course  supplier, in this case,
supplier H, for the cost of the course and recoups what it has paid via the monthly loan
repayments from the person who has entered into the fixed-sum  loan, along with any interest
and fees it has charged.
The fixed-sum loan agreement is usually separate  to the agreement that is entered into
between the course  supplier and the student,  which is the supply agreement.
The supply and fixed-sum loan agreements  have different terms and conditions and
therefore can have  different  provisions about when  a person can exit the agreement.
Importantly, withdrawing  from a fixed-sum loan agreement doesnt  necessarily  bring an end
to the supply agreement and equally,  exiting from a supply agreement doesnt necessarily
bring the fixed-sum loan agreement  to an end.
The terms of Mrs Cs fixed-sum loan agreement with Omni Capital were such that she could
withdraw from the fixed-sum loan agreement within 14 days  from the day after the
agreement was signed. This is in line with provisions of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. It is
often referred to as a cooling-off period and allows a consumer an opportunity to change
their mind  about taking  out credit.
When a customer withdraws from the fixed-sum loan agreement  the credit  facility is brought
to an end. The customer is then required  to pay the full amount that has been advanced to
the supplier, along with recalculated interest, within 30 days  of withdrawing from the fixed-
sum loan agreement.
I think it is clear  that Mrs C didnt contact Omni Capital to withdraw from the fixed-sum loan
agreement within 14 days. It was about a year after she entered into the agreement  that she
first got in touch about wanting  to bring  the agreement  to an end. And by that point, her
rights to exit the agreement without settling the outstanding balance were  limited.
Ref: DRN03497623Ive not seen a copy  of the actual agreement that Mrs Cs son entered  into with supplier H,
but I have seen a copy  of its general terms and conditions as provided by Omni Capital. I
say that the agreement was with Mrs Cs son and I will come back to this below.
The terms and conditions  set out when a customer can cancel the supply agreement and in
summary allows cancellation with a cancellation fee on a sliding scale for up to six months
from the initial transaction.  Thereafter,  it doesnt seem that the agreement allows for Mrs Cs
son to exit the course without a financial penalty, so I can see why Omni Capital told Mrs C
that any opportunity  to exit the finance  agreement and get a refund would be dependent on
supplier H agreeing to that.
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think Omni  Capital was acting unfairly when it directed
Mrs C to supplier  H to see if it would allow her to cancel the supply agreement  and reduce
the amount she owed  to Omni  Capital.  And even  if supplier Hs terms did allow  for
cancellation and a refund  and supplier H didnt keep  to that, or respond to Mrs Cs request, I
dont think I can fairly  hold Omni liable for that for reasons I will now explain.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  says that in certain  circumstances the borrower
under a credit agreement  has an equal  right to claim against the credit supplier if theres
either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Failure by the supplier to comply with its cancellation terms would likely amount to a breach
of contract. As would  the fact that the supplier H had ceased trading without having provided
Mrs Cs son with the opportunity to complete  the course.
But for Section  75 to apply, there  are certain  criteria that need to be satisfied before looking
at whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred, which  includes
establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship between  the parties.
Omni Capital  says the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  doesnt exist in this
case, because  the credit agreement was between Mrs C and Omni Capital, but the
agreement for provision of the course  was between Mrs Cs son and supplier H.
As Ive set out above, Ive not seen a copy of the actual agreement that Mrs Cs son entered
into with supplier H, but the way in which the terms and conditions  are framed  makes  me
think it was likely Mrs Cs son who entered into the contract with supplier H and not Mrs C.
In addition, Mrs C has provided some paperwork that her son received from supplier H. I can
see that supplier H was corresponding with Mrs Cs son. It also sent him login details for
access to the course materials.
So, while Mrs C may have  paid for the course,  she wasnt the person utilising the service
and I dont think she was the person contracting with supplier H. So, I dont think  she had the
requisite relationship with the supplier  for there to be the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier
relationship.
As I do not think the Section  75 criteria  have been  met, I dont think  Mrs C can be afforded
the protections offered  by Section 75. So, I dont think  Omni  can fairly be held liable for the
failings of the supplier  here. Although I am pleased  to see that it continued to maintain  its
offer of allowing Mrs Cs son to take up the course with the alternative  supplier.
Mrs C has also said she wasnt happy  that Omni  Capital didnt reply  to her. However, from
Ref: DRN03497624Omni Capitals systems  notes, which I have no reason to doubt  here,  I can see that it did
explain the position to Mrs C on the telephone on more than one occasion and it also sent
her emails  to the same email address that we have on file for Mrs C.
Mrs C has it seems maintained payments under the agreement. Although  she has explained
that her financial situation  is getting  more difficult,  especially in the current  climate.  If Mrs C
continues to struggle  with the payments, then she should contact Omni Capital to let them
know this. I remind Omni  Capital of its obligations  to act fairly,  with due consideration and
forbearance towards consumers who are in financial difficulties.
My provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I invited both parties to 
respond to my provisional decision with any comments they wished to make by 25 March  
2021.
Omni Capital  responded to say that it accepted my provisional findings. Mrs C did not 
respond. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further submissions for me to consider, I see no reason  to 
depart from my provisional findings.  
I do empathise with the position Mrs C finds herself in. However, I do not think that Omni
Capital has acted unfairly or unreasonably  here for the reasons I have set out above.
My final decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2021.
Siobhan Kelly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0349762