K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained to Tesco Personal  Finance Plc about the service hed received following 
his concerns over a late payment  charge.
background
Mr H was unhappy Tesco applied  a late payment fee to his account. He complained  about  
this to Tesco and was promised a call back from a manager on a number of occasions.  But 
these didnt happen. Tesco also promised to send Mr H a text message after his complaints 
were logged which also didnt happen.
On one occasion when Mr H spoke to Tesco, they used his phone number to locate his 
account details  as Mr H didnt have his account  number to hand. This brought up a closed  
account at Mr Hs previous address. Mr H asked Tesco  for a copy of the data they held 
about him, including notes  and call recordings. 
Tesco sent Mr H a password protected disk with the call recordings.  These  included  
recordings of Mr H answering  security  questions. But Tesco  sent the password for the disc in 
the same  envelope  as the disc itself.  Mr H was concerned that, if someone else had 
received this envelope in error,  they wouldve had access to his personal data. Tesco  
acknowledged it couldve provided a better service and compensated Mr H with £250.
Our investigator found that Tesco had offered Mr H fair and reasonable compensation for the 
problems with service theyd provided.  It wasnt in dispute that Tesco  hadnt called Mr H 
when promised, hadnt told him that a confirmation text message  may take up to five days,  
and had sent the disc and password in the same envelope. Because  of this he felt Tescos 
offer of £250 was reasonable in the circumstances, and didnt think  it should be increased.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. He didnt think the offer compensated him for the five to 
six hours of calls hed made  to Tesco to try and resolve  the matter.  He has asked that an 
ombudsman review his complaint  and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its not disputed that the service  provided 
by Tesco  couldve been better. Because of this, my decision will focus on whats  reasonable 
compensation for the service  issues.
Tesco didnt  call Mr H back  on three  occasions. They also didnt tell him that the text 
message about  his concerns could  take up to five days to be sent. All of this meant  that Mr H 
had to contact  Tesco  when he shouldnt have needed to. This wouldve been frustrating for 
Mr H and I agree that Tesco should compensate him for this. Tesco have already paid Mr H 
£150 for this issue, which I think is fair for the inconvenience this caused him and for the 
time he spent on the phone to Tesco chasing  up the missing calls and text message.
Ref: DRN06264112Tesco have  said they keep records for at least ten years and, as Mr H is an existing 
customer, I would expect them to hold his previous  address. While its unfortunate that a 
search against his phone number brought up an old account at his old address, I cant say 
Tesco have  done anything wrong by storing this information. Tesco  have written to Mr H at 
his current address as part of his complaint, so I cant  say they have the wrong address on 
file for him.
Tesco sending Mr H a password protected disc and the password  in the same envelope 
shouldnt have happened, and Tesco  acknowledge  this. Mr H has said hes now raised his 
concerns about  this with the Information Commissioners Office.
I understand Mr Hs concerns that his personal data couldve been compromised had the 
envelope with the disc and password  been  intercepted. But it wasnt  and I agree with the 
investigator that we cant compensate Mr H for what  might have happened. Tesco have 
already paid Mr H £100  for this error, which I think is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0626411