K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that an error  by Invesco Fund Managers  Limited in recording her details led 
to a delay in her being able to transfer  some stock to a new ISA provider, which  she says 
resulted in a financial loss. 
background
In late August 2018 Ms P arranged to transfer  a holding of some units from her Invesco ISA 
to a new provider.  She was intending to sell and reinvest and specifically wanted the transfer 
to be in-specie so the sale and reinvestment  would be made with the new provider.
She heard nothing  for several weeks so contacted the new provider. She was told the 
transfer hadnt taken place as thered been  a problem with her National  Insurance (NI) 
number. Invescos records  hadnt  matched the information shed provided on the transfer 
form. 
She contacted Invesco  and found  that it had incorrectly  recorded  her NI number when shed 
opened the account, hence the mismatch  with the information on the transfer form. Invesco 
corrected the information  and the transfer  was able to proceed on 20 September  2018.
Ms Ps claim for a loss in relation to Invescos error  stems from the fact that her husband 
made a similar  transfer of the same units at the same time. As there was no error with his 
transfer it completed successfully at the end of August 2018.  At that time the units  were 
priced at £33.80. But when Ms Ps transfer completed some weeks  later the price was less  
£33.18.
Ms P says that because she always intended  to sell the units as soon as the transfer was 
complete, she was disadvantaged  by this fall in price. It led to her incurring a loss of just over 
£800 when she did sell compared with what she wouldve received had she been able to sell 
in August 2018.   
Invesco acknowledged  its error  in incorrectly recording  the NI number and offered £75 for 
the inconvenience caused.  But it didnt consider  it was responsible for any loss as it felt that 
Ms P couldve sold her units at any time and that it was the new provider that shouldve  
alerted her to the transfer being initially rejected.   
Ms P didnt accept this and referred  the matter to this service. 
Our adjudicator concluded that Invescos  offer was fair. He noted that despite the error the 
transfer had still completed within the broad time limit indicated  by the new provider. And 
further, the adjudicator didnt think that there  was enough evidence to support a finding  that 
Ms P would  have sold the transferred units earlier than she did. The adjudicator  noted that 
although Ms Ps husbands transfer  had completed  much sooner, he didnt sell his units until 
around the same time that Ms P sold hers.  
Ms P didnt accept the adjudicators view. She felt he was effectively asking her to prove 
when she wouldve sold the units if the delay hadnt occurred, which was impossible to do. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
  
Ref: DRN01314312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
I think the offer Invesco  has made  in respect of the error in recording Ms Ps NI number  
£75  is fair in the circumstances. But that isnt really the crux of the matter.  Rather, its 
whether Invesco is also responsible for Ms P incurring a financial loss as a result of the 
error.
I take Ms Ps point about the difficulties in having to prove that she wouldve  sold at an 
earlier date. But her point  doesnt have to be proved. Rather, our rules  are such  that I can 
make a finding on whats most likely  to have happened based on the balance  of 
probabilities, considering  the evidence and wider  circumstances.  
But that said, I agree with the adjudicator. I dont think theres enough  to support, on 
balance, a finding that Ms P wouldve sold earlier, on a specific date, if her transfer had 
completed without error. 
For instance, while I acknowledge  that Ms P has said her husband was waiting for her 
transfer to complete, its nevertheless the case that he didnt sell his units  until late 
September, despite having successfully transferred them in late August and was therefore 
able to sell sooner. 
Further, I note that Ms P didnt chase up her transfer  until 18 September 2018, over three  
weeks after she started the process.  So, I dont think a consideration of the circumstances 
suggests that its more  likely than not that if Ms Ps transfer had completed  in August, she 
wouldve sold sooner  than she did.
In reaching that conclusion  Im not dismissing her comments and I entirely  accept that 
without the error she could have sold sooner (in fact she could have done so even with the 
error  although I appreciate that she understood transferring in-specie to be the best 
option). But in reaching a decision I must  be fair to both parties  and in this case, I dont feel 
theres enough to support a finding  that Ms P actually incurred a loss as a result of Invescos 
error.    
I think its also worth noting that, having  looked at the transactions  that Ms P and her 
husband completed on their accounts with the new provider,  its clear they didnt simply 
transfer the units to the new provider and then sell them. 
It seems  they were first switched to another class of unit. And while Ms P does  appear  to 
have lost out on the switch sell transaction  because of the delay, she gained  on the 
corresponding buy transaction. So, as a result I dont think  her loss was as much as she 
feels it was in any event.       
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN01314313Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0131431