K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about TSB Bank  plc (TSB) for mistakenly  cancelling his debit card. He 
wants compensation for the work he missed whilst without a card.  
background
Mr P is self employed. In mid 2018 he noticed that his card was not reliably  working and that 
the chip was broken.  
He contacted TSB and requested a new card. He explained that his current card still worked 
sometimes and that he wanted to continue  using it until the replacement arrived.  
A new card was ordered, but in error the agent marked  Mr Ps existing card as lost/stolen, 
causing it to be cancelled. 
The following  day, Mr P tried to use his card and found it was not working. He contacted 
TSB again and was advised that his card had been  cancelled and could not be reinstated. 
Mr P made a complaint and advised the agent that he had attended work that morning, 
found he was unable to buy the materials he needed, and so had been unable  to work and 
had lost his days  earnings. 
The agent  apologised and explained  that TSB would  not cover loss of earnings as Mr Ps 
account was a personal account. The agent  did, however, offer to reimburse Mr Ps 
expenses in his wasted petrol  and calls (at £42) and offered him £50 compensation for his 
inconvenience. 
Mr P accepted the £92 payment but was not satisfied for his complaint  to be marked as 
resolved. He therefore asked for it to be escalated to the customer service team. 
In July TSB sent Mr P an acknowledgement letter for his complaint. 
Mr P did not subsequently receive a final response to his complaint. 
Mr P contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and considered that TSB should  increase 
its offer to a total of £150  compensation. 
TSB agreed  to increase  its offer to £150. Mr P has refused  that offer and asked  for an 
ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  listened to Mr Ps calls with TSB. 
I have heard, and TSB has accepted, that it was an error for TSB to cancel Mr Ps current  
card, rather  than simply arranging for a further  card to be sent to him. 
Ref: DRN09865732I accept that being  unexpectedly without a card caused Mr P inconvenience and would have 
been frustrating.
When Mr P called to complain, the agent  discussed options on how Mr P could minimise his 
inconvenience. These options  included  whether  Mr P could  visit a branch, or transfer money 
to another account or another  person,  so that Mr P was able to access  his money before his 
replacement card was received. Mr P explained that the nearest branch was some distance 
away, and that he would  prefer not to use his other account as the card was with another 
person. 
Mr P advised that he would be able to access funds through his partner, and so accessing  
cash was not his main  concern. He also confirmed  that he had plenty of fuel in his car and 
did not need to make any more purchases  in the next days. His main concern was that he 
had not been able to complete  his work  that day and had wasted his travel to the job, and 
had not ben able to earn his daily rate of £200.  
TSB argued  that it is not willing to reimburse  lost work income, and that the account was a 
personal account so should not have been used for a business.  TSB accepts that Mr P was 
caused inconvenience for a day, but does not think that the inconvenience  extended  far 
beyond that as Mr P was able to access money elsewhere. 
I accept that Mr P was put to some  inconvenience  beyond the initial  day, as he did not 
receive a final response letter and so had to escalate his complaint to us, however I think 
that his inconvenience was moderate, as he was only without access to funds  for one day, 
and TSB made efforts to ensure  that Mr P could  access his money. 
Mr P has said that he does not think that the compensation  recommended  by our adjudicator 
is sufficient, because it does not reimburse  him for his days work. I understand his view,  but 
as the account  was a personal  account  I do not think  it would be fair or reasonable to require 
TSB to reimburse business losses due to its failing.  I recognise that Mr P was put to 
significant inconvenience on the day when his card was refused, and he incurred costs of 
wasted petrol and calls,  but think that £150 appropriately compensates him. 
As a result I uphold Mr Ps complaint, but think that the compensation recommended by our 
adjudicator, and subsequently  offered by TSB is appropriate. I would not ask TSB to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint  and direct  TSB Bank plc to pay 
Mr P compensation totalling £150  (including  any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0986573