K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  on behalf of their limited company that I will refer to as B, that 
Swinton Group Ltd mis-sold a self-build insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B bought a self-build insurance  policy through  Swinton in April 2015. This was to 
insure the complete rebuild of their property. In November that year they set up a limited  
company for the purposes of the self-build, of which both Mr and Mrs B were  directors. 
The policy was put in the business  name with terms unchanged.  
The policy was originally  set up for a year and this was renewed for an additional  year in 
2016 as the project was taking longer than predicted. After two years, Mr and Mrs B on 
behalf of B advised that the build wasnt yet complete.  They asked for the policy  to be 
extended for an additional three months.  Swinton advised them that the underwriter had 
agreed but said no further extensions would be possible. 
In August  2017,  after the self-build was complete,  Mr and Mrs B experienced a problem with 
the temperature of the water coming  from the taps in the property. They  made a claim on 
behalf of B on the insurance  policy. The claim was declined by the insurer as it said the 
policy didnt cover latent  defects. The insurer also said the claim was made  after the 
expiration of the policy, so the cover no longer applied anyway.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with this as they said the policy  was not suitable for the needs  
of B as it didnt cover  defects that were. They made  a complaint to Swinton as they felt it had 
mis-sold the policy. 
Swinton didnt uphold their complaint.  It said latent  defects cover is usually included  in 
policies for companies  that build and sell properties  to insure  against  problems that arent 
immediately obvious  before the sale. It said Mr and Mrs B had always  said they intended to 
live in the property  so it wouldnt usually be offered in such circumstances. It said this is why 
it didnt discuss the additional cover as part of the sale.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with this response. They said they expected a broker  to offer 
advice on a range of different policies  so they could  pick one that would best suit their 
needs. They  said Swinton had just selected one policy  and it hadnt met their needs. They 
brought their complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He 
said that as it was an advised sale, he would  expect the insurer  to offer a policy that met the 
needs outlined  by the customer. And in this case he felt Swinton had fulfilled this 
requirement.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with this. They said they expected  Swinton  to outline the common  
risks associate with self-builds and then design  a policy that would reasonably protect B from 
those risks. They also said when  they changed  the policy holder from themselves to the 
limited company this should have been an indication that a different level of cover  was 
required. They asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN09111842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start by addressing the issue of the change  to the policyholder.  Swinton originally sold 
the policy to Mr and Mrs B. However  the policy was subsequently  transferred  into the name  
of B. At this point Mr and Mrs B gave  up their rights under  the policy, as all rights  were now 
assigned to B. This includes the right to complain. So although the original sale was made  to 
Mr and Mrs B, the complaint has been brought to us by them on behalf of B and any redress 
would be made  directly to B as policyholder.
When the policy was transferred  into Bs name Swinton confirmed that all details and terms 
remained unchanged. Apart  from the name  of the policyholder.  I am therefore satisfied that 
although the complaint is brought on behalf of B, any mis-sale would have taken place 
during the initial  sale to Mr and Mrs B. As this is when the needs of the project were outlined.  
And the terms remained unchanged at the point of the transfer to B.
Mis-sale complaint
Bs complaint has arisen after its claim was declined following a problem with the taps at 
Mr and Mrs Bs property,  discovered after the build was completed. The claim was declined  
partly because cover for latent defects  put simply defects that couldnt have been 
identified at the time of the build   wasnt included. But also because the policy only covered 
the time when the build was in process and the defect was discovered after this. So I have 
considered whether latent defect cover should have been discussed and if the duration of 
the policy was suitable for Bs needs.
Swinton sold the policy as part of an advised sale. This means  it recommended the policy  to 
meet its customers needs.  The relevant rules and guidance applicable to Swinton for an 
advised sale can be found in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) Handbook 
(Insurance: Conduct of Business ICOBS). This explains that a brokers responsibilities  
during an advised sale are as follows: 
 ensuring the contract  of insurance proposed  was consistent with the customers insurance 
demands and needs  
 taking reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice  
 take reasonable  steps to ensure  a customer is given  appropriate  information  about a policy 
in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer  can make  an informed 
decision about the arrangements proposed.
So I need to considered whether Swinton has fulfilled these responsibilities and treated 
Mr and Mrs B fairly when selling the policy. To do this I have listened  to all calls leading  up to 
the sale of the policy  and the information provided to Mr and Mrs B by email. 
The sale is discussed  across a number of calls.  However the first call is where the greatest 
amount of detail of the self-build is discussed.  During this call the Swinton representative  
asks a number  of detailed questions about the build.  This included the number of staff on 
site, the value of the build and the length of time it will take.
Ref: DRN09111843In the initial  call the representative  explains the length of a self-build property insurance 
policy is usually only for either 12 or 18 months.  And he explains the purpose of the policy. 
The conversation is as follows:
Mrs B: So, we are insured for any accidents, thefts? 
Swinton rep: It is any damage  to the building for example if you suffered a storm or flood or 
any fire to the building that destroys  the building whilst its in the process of being built, thats 
what this policy is for.
Mrs B: So up to the point  to when it is completely done
Swinton rep: When its signed off, yes.
Following this call Swinton sends details of its recommended policy based on the needs  
Mrs B outlined.
On considering the details discussed with Swinton and the information requested, I think the 
policy provided reasonably met the needs  of its customer as indicated by Mrs B. In the call, 
the representative makes  it clear  that policy is intended to insure  work when it is taking place 
and that it ends once the build is complete. This is confirmed again on both occasions when 
the policy is extended. So it seems clear  that Mrs B is requesting  insurance  for the time of 
the build  and understands this will end once its complete.
Further, Swinton  asked thorough and detailed questions and took into account information 
provided by Mrs B. From looking  at the policy recommended  by Swinton, I am satisfied that it 
meets the needs as discussed. This includes the value of the property, predicted length  of 
time of the build and the type and number of contractors  that would be onsite. I wouldnt 
expect Swinton to provide a variety  of policies if it can find one that meets the needs  its 
customer has outlined. And Im satisfied it did that in this instance. 
Mrs B says that latent  defects insurance should have been discussed  at the point of the sale 
of the policy. In my experience of examining insurance products, insurance  for latent defects  
is usually intended  for houses that will be sold, as a safety net for the buyer  in case things go 
wrong due to defective work. Mrs B repeatedly  confirmed that her and her husband intended 
to live in the house. And gave no indication that she would  require  cover  to be included for 
after the build was complete. So I dont agree that this was something Swinton should have 
automatically discussed without Mr and Mrs B explaining  this was a requirement.
I therefore think Swinton  took reasonable care to ensure the policy was consistent with its 
customers needs and provided a suitable  recommendation based on this.
Mrs B has subsequently provided  an example  of a policy that she feels would be better  
suited to the needs of the build. However, the policy she has provided is a ten year housing 
warranty. This is a completely different type of cover. Rather than insuring the build of the 
house, it effectively  insures the house against defects once it is built.  
Ref: DRN09111844I have provided the transcript  of the conversation that took place  before the sale of the policy  
with Swinton. Mrs B makes it clear that she is looking to insure  the build of the house. And 
that she understands the cover would  finish when the build is complete. I therefore  dont  
think Swinton has sold an inappropriate product based on the needs outlined. And if Mrs B 
required a warranty rather than an insurance policy, this wasnt  clearly  indicated during the 
sale.
Finally, I can see that Swinton sent the policy documents  and summary  before Mr B agreed 
to purchase the policy and at each renewal and amendment. On receiving the documents  
Mrs B called up to pay for the policy. During this call the representative asks if she has had a 
chance to read all the information he has sent to make sure it meets her needs. She replied 
yes. I am therefore satisfied that Swinton provided  suitable information about  the product 
and gave Mrs B enough time to ensure she had read and understood the details. 
I therefore think Swinton  acted fairly  and reasonably when selling the self-build insurance 
policy to Mr and Mrs B on behalf of B. And fulfilled the requirements of an advised sale as 
laid out by the FCA.
my final decision
For these reasons I wont require Swinton Group Ltd to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B, on 
behalf of B, to accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0911184