K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. The policy was sold by Egg, 
but Barclays has taken  responsibility for this complaint. For ease,  Ill refer to Egg throughout 
this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Egg has provided evidence that the card and policy was sold online, rather  than over the 
phone as Mr B thinks. I think  the online process  Egg used made it clear that Mr B didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what theyve said about  his job and 
the increased likelihood that he might need to claim.  Those  two things were more likely  to 
make the policy  more useful rather than less. Mr B also said he didnt earn much at the time. 
His application shows he was earning  £23,000 a year. None of these points change  my 
decision.
However, Egg will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has basically offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN04729012Egg has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Egg should also pay back to Mr B any extra interest  he paid because of 
that.
credit card  PPI
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr B the difference  between 
what Mr B owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0472901