K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Coventry Building Society mis-sold him payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background and summary to complaint
Mr B first bought the PPI at a meeting in 1994 when  he also increased his existing mortgage. 
He increased the policy  cover at a meeting in 1996.  In 2000 the policy was cancelled and 
replaced with another, in return for which Mr B received six months  free cover - Coventry 
says this was a mailshot offering at the time. The PPI provided  cover for Mr B for accident, 
sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations.
At the start the PPI for a successful claim offered to pay a monthly benefit of £170 to help 
with Mr Bs mortgage related costs and cost £11.77  a month according to the policy 
schedule (£11.47  before  tax of 2.5%).
The insurers  policy notes show the second policy that started in 2000  was in effect the first 
policy re-keyed to a new policy number.  Coventry  says the benefit was £310 and cost 
£16.12 a month. The internal notes  confirm that this was the benefit level to which  the first 
policy had been  increased in 1997  (following the 1996 meeting). A policy summary from 
2000 that says accident, sickness and unemployment cover cost £4.95 a month plus tax (5% 
at the time) per £100 of benefit.  This is in line with a cost of £16.12  for £310 of benefit.
In 1994 Mr B had been with his employer  for some  years and hes told us he stayed there  
until he retired. Hes told us he was entitled  to sick pay of full pay for six months followed by 
six months half pay - and less than six but at least three months pay for redundancy.
Mr B has told us of a health issue he had in or around 1980, for which he went  to the doctor 
but wasnt prescribed medication. Hes also told us he missed three months  work  due to a 
back problem he had around 25 years before he first bought the PPI. He hasnt told us either 
issue caused him further problems or continued  beyond the dates hes given for them, and 
he hasnt told us he had any other,  or more recent, health issues.
Coventry has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in 2001. It has also 
sent internal notes indicating Mr B claimed  for sickness and was paid benefit at around the 
time that the replacement policy started  in 2000. Mr Bs representative has made lengthy 
and substantial representations on his behalf.  I will not restate them  all here,  but I have read 
and considered them all carefully. In summary,  Mr Bs representative says:
 
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
Coventry failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the relevant times.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt have taken the 
PPI and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr Bs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
Ref: DRN00375112common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Coventry should have told Mr B about the 
poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Coventry should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The PPI was first sold in 1994 and replaced  with another policy in 2000, before the sale of 
general insurance products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The General  Insurance  Standards Council (GISC)  code of practice  was published in June 
2000, so doesnt concern the sale of the PPI in 1994.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  when  the PPI was sold, which  Im 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General 
Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of 
Insurance Companies) other than Registered  Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN00375113The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Coventry at the relevant  times. So, while not all intermediaries  who sold 
PPI were members of the ABI, Im satisfied  I should  take the ABI Code and these other 
publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Bs case. 
In the same  way, I consider the GISC  code,  which set out minimum standards  of good 
practice for its members  to follow when selling insurance, including PPI, and was published 
shortly before Mr B applied for the replacement policy  in 2000, to be indicative of the 
standards of good industry practice  at that time.  So Im satisfied I should, when considering 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case, take that code into account 
in relation to that sale. Also, there  was by that time the Mortgage Code - a voluntary code 
followed by subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about 
mortgage related  matters,  it also included some insurance related commitments.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The PPI here was sold before  insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Coventry was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Coventry gave advice, whether it advised Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  for him, given his needs and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN00375114-Whether Coventry gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the PPI, including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the PPI and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Coventry, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Coventry had to make it clear the PPI was optional.
The 1994  mortgage application form had a part about Payment protection that asked 
Would you like the Society to arrange/update  Coventry Payment Protection  and had 
boxes to tick to say either Yes or No to the cover. On Mr Bs form, which  he signed to 
take the further advance,  the Yes  box was ticked - and I think  Mr B wouldve known that if 
he didnt want the PPI the No box could  be ticked instead. 
The mortgage form also said: If Yes, please  complete the appropriate application form, so 
it looks like Mr B also needed to complete an application  form for the PPI before it was set 
up - and a handwritten note indicated this form was given to Mr B.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr B knew the PPI was optional and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure. Also Ive nothing  to suggest that Mr B wouldve 
thought anything different as a result  being  invited by post in 2000 to apply for new cover 
and claim six months free cover when the second  policy replaced the first. 
did Coventry provide  advice?
Both Coventry and Mr B agree advice wasnt provided when the PPI was sold in 1994. The 
policy switch in 2000 arose  from a mailshot,  so Im satisfied advice wasnt  provided at that 
time either  and Mr B hasnt recalled  receiving advice. This means  Coventry didnt have to 
check if the PPI was suitable for Mr B. Instead,  it had to give Mr B sufficient, appropriate and 
timely information to enable him to make  an informed  choice  about  whether to take the PPI, 
including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions and significant limitations and exclusions.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr B was given, before he took the PPI, a broad 
description of what it was intended  to cover - that is, that it would protect his payments if he 
were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. I say this because I think  
its unlikely Mr B would  have taken the PPI without any sense of what  it was for. Also the PPI 
part of Mr Bs 1994 mortgage  application form says the PPI would help to cover  mortgage 
related payments if you are unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Ref: DRN00375115Likewise, I dont think Mr B wouldve taken the PPI in 1994,  or at any other time,  without 
some idea of how much  it would cost.  So I think he had, from what Coventry  told him or gave 
him, an idea of the approximate cost.
Also, Mr Bs 1994  mortgage application  form has a box that has the benefit amount written  in 
and says the premium  would be £11.47. The 1994 loan offer, sent later but before  the loan 
started, set out these same  figures. I think its likely Mr B was given this cost information  at 
the time he chose to take the PPI. But, as noted  above, the premium was actually £11.77. 
Mr B was sent a schedule  showing  this shortly after the policy  started. But Ive nothing to 
show that Coventry gave  him this figure at the time of the sale or before the policy started.
Ive also nothing to show that Mr B was told the exact cost of the replacement cover before 
he applied  for it in 2000 (but I dont  think it likely  Mr B wouldve applied to replace  his existing 
policy with a new one without having at least a broad idea of what this would cost).
Also, what  I have doesnt show  whether  Coventry  gave Mr B sufficient information in 1994 or 
2000 about the exclusions or limitations before  he agreed to the policies. So, with all the 
above in mind, I dont  think  Coventry gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  
to enable him to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  drawing 
to his attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main  
provisions of the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Bs representative  considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contracts  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Coventry  ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Coventrys shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ref: DRN00375116Ive found Coventry  didnt  do all it should have done  when it sold this PPI to Mr B. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr B would have still 
taken the PPI, had Coventry done things  properly.
Mr B says he would  not have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As the PPI was sold on a non-advised basis, Mr B had to weigh  up in his own mind  the cost 
of the PPI against the benefits  offered  and the potential consequences if he didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.
As Ive found above, Mr B chose to take the PPI. So I consider  its reasonable to conclude 
he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mr B thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
When he first chose  to take the PPI, Mr B was told what the premium would be but not the 
cost of tax. Also, I cant  see he was told what the replacement policy  he took in 2000 would 
cost.
Having said that, the premium  figure  Mr B was given in 1994  was only fractionally (2.5%) 
short of the full cost, so I think it wouldve  still given  him a good idea of what the PPI would 
cost in broad  terms. Also he was sent a schedule showing  the full cost shortly after the cover 
started. So when  Mr B received this or when  he started to pay for the PPI, if the cost had 
been significantly at odds with what he had expected  at the sale, its possible he might have 
raised this with Coventry or reconsidered his decision  to take it. Instead, Mr B paid for the 
PPI for a number of years.  
Also, turning  to the second policy, aside from a 6 months free period, what  I have doesnt 
suggest that the switch to the replacement policy led to a change   or any increase  in what 
Mr B was paying for his PPI. I also bear in mind that the rate Mr B was paying  for the PPI 
when the replacement policy started  was lower than he was quoted,  and found  acceptable,  
in 1994. Based on what I have, nothing about  what happened in 2000  that makes  me think  
Mr B wouldve  looked  less favourably  on the cost of the PPI at that time than he had before.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B wouldve found the cost unacceptable if hed been  given  the 
exact premium figure at the time he first took the PPI or when he took the replacement  
policy.
The information Mr B was given about the benefit amount at the start was clear. Also if, as 
seems likely, Mr B had to sign a form to switch  to the new policy, from the sample Coventry  
has sent us it looks  like the benefit  amount would have been entered on that form. Also, the 
benefit amount  at the time of the policy replacement remained  the same  as it had been for 
some years. I note also that Mr B submitted a claim at that time - which gives me a further 
reason for thinking it likely Mr B had some  familiarity  with the PPI policy he had, and likely 
had some awareness of what  the policy benefit was. With all this in mind, on balance I think 
it likely  Mr B was aware of what the policy benefit  was when he took the replacement policy. 
Ref: DRN00375117Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The first policy excluded disability  arising from any health  issue Mr B had received 
advice or treatment for in the 12 months  before the policy start and which  recurred in the 
12 months after the policy start, and excluded disability arising from any chronic  or 
continuing disease Mr B had and knew of at the policy start. 
The replacement policy excluded any claim caused or resulting from any health  issue 
Mr B knew  or should reasonably have known  of on the start date, or for which he had 
received or been referred for treatment or advice in the 12 months before the policy start 
and which recurred within 12 months of the policy  start.
The policies limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
To qualify as disabled  under the first policy Mr B had to be unable to do his own job and 
any similar job he may have been  reasonably  expected to undertake bearing in mind  his 
knowledge and training; Under  the second  policy he had to be stopped from doing his 
own or any other work  for which  he was reasonably  qualified.
The PPI protected  payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
Cover would end when Mr B reached age 65 (or if earlier,  on his normal  retirement date 
for the first policy and, for the second  policy, when  he retired).
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the PPI wasnt  as good 
as he thought and he might  have decided not to proceed. The limitations  on the cover,  when 
coupled with the other shortcomings in the way the PPI was sold, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking the it. 
But the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  when he bought the PPI shows  it wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. Mr B was eligible  for its benefits  and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr B wouldve been caught  by any of the 
significant exclusions under the first policy  he was in permanent  employment and, from 
what hes told us, he didnt have  any health issues requiring or receiving medical  care and 
wasnt suffering from any chronic or continuing disease. I say this having carefully 
considered all Mr B has said about the back problem he suffered more than 25 years  before, 
and the other health issue he has mentioned. Ive seen nothing to suggest these issues  
werent shortlived.
Likewise, Mr B was still permanently employed  when  he took the second policy.  Also, the 
insurers notes say when  Mr B applied for the second policy the form sent to the insurer  had 
a note from Coventry saying Mr B was off sick and was going to submit  a sickness  claim.  
The sickness started at least a month before  the cover was re-keyed to the second policy,  
the claim details were passed to underwriters before the second  policy started and a note on 
the account made by Coventry says Mr B returned to work and claim payments concluded  
three months after the second policy started. So Mr B was able to claim for his sickness  at 
that time.  With this in mind, I dont think more  about the policy  sickness exclusions wouldve 
changed Mr Bs decision  to take the replacement policy.
So, taking all this into account,  I think Mr B still had some good  reasons  to take the PPI.
Ref: DRN00375118The PPI didnt exclude back or mental  health  conditions, or place any additional restrictions 
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the PPI without first providing some evidence  to 
support that claim.
If Mr B had known he could only qualify as disabled  on the first policy if he were  unable to do 
his own job and any similar job he may have  been reasonably expected  to do bearing in 
mind his knowledge and training, it might have  played into his thinking about what  to do. And 
I accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr B were unable (through  disability)  to do his own job, 
the chances that he would be able to do a similar  job would also,  in all probability, be limited. 
If he had known he could  only claim for disability under  the replacement policy if he were 
stopped from doing  his own or any other work  for which he was reasonably qualified, this 
also might  have played into his thinking about  what to do and, again, I accept this may have 
given Mr B pause for thought. But given  Mr Bs circumstances, on balance,  I think  he would 
still have been  interested  in taking the cover. 
Coventry may not have told Mr B that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than Mr B would  have received full sick pay and his redundancy 
entitlement was also significantly  less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr B would still have thought cover that paid up to 
12 monthly benefit payments would be of benefit  to him and would help him manage the 
consequences should he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the PPI. 
Mr B has complained that he ceased  to be eligible to claim on the PPI when he turned 65 
during the term.  Ive thought about this and about  the fact that cover  would end when  Mr B 
reached age 65 (or if earlier, on his normal retirement date for the first policy  and, for the 
second policy, when  he retired). 
But Mr B was not yet in his mid-fifties when he first took the PPI. So I think  it more likely  than 
not he wouldve  thought hed still get some value out of having it, as it wouldve covered him 
for a reasonable period of time before he turned  65 or reached his normal retirement  date. In 
saying this I note also Mr B was still in his job when the first policy  was replaced.  When  that 
took place Mr B was still not yet 60, so I think he wouldve thought hed get some  value out 
of it before  he turned 65 or retired. I bear in mind  also that Mr B had a claim in progress at 
the time.  I also bear in mind that the policy was cancelled  when the mortgage  was repaid in 
2001, some  years before Mr B reached age 65. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr B would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently  close to what its likely he thought  
he was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help him manage the consequences  if he 
were made redundant, or unable to work through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, 
I consider it more likely  than not Mr B would have taken the PPI in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN00375119Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance is for firms, but it is 
a relevant consideration so I take it into account  along with many other things when I decide 
what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering the purpose of the guidance, I dont 
think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the PPI. I am not persuaded by these  arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the PPI. That is because, while I accept its possible  he wouldnt have taken the PPI, 
Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not he would still have taken the PPI 
had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the PPI he was buying.  
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Coventry should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr B thinks Coventry misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Coventrys statements  for each policy misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason 
why Coventry failed to act fairly  and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say 
in the information it provided   but because the overall information Coventry gave  Mr B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1994 and 2000 when providing information  about  insurance policies. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Coventry for either policy negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Coventry had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN003751110my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0037511