K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Unum Limited has declined his claim under  his income protection  
policy.
background
Mr R is a project surveyor manager  for a construction  company.  He made a claim on his 
group income protection policy after he was absent  from work  from September  2017 due to 
severe bowel  problems. At the time he was also suffering from work and personal stress,  
anxiety and depression. 
Unum declined the claim as it said the medical evidence provided wasnt  enough to 
demonstrate Mr R met the definition of incapacity. It said Mr Rs bowel problems had no 
reported impact to his functionality at work.  And it was satisfied Mr R did not have a 
psychological illness that would have prevented him from performing his occupation. 
Unhappy with this Mr R complained to our service. Our investigator looked into things  and 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She felt the business had acted fairly in declining the claim 
based on the medical evidence and circumstances of this case.
Mr R remained  unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules  state that Unum  should handle claims promptly and fairly, and that it should not 
decline a claim unreasonably.  So, Ive looked  at everything to decide if thats what  happened 
in this case.
The policy definition of incapacity is unable, by reason of other illness  or injury, to perform  
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation, and are not performing any 
occupation. 
Ive taken account of all the available  medical evidence prior to Mr Rs absence  in 
September 2017 and during the 26 consecutive weeks deferred period, to build  a picture of 
his circumstances.
On 28 September  2017 Mr R stopped  working  and the GP notes for this day say he was 
being investigated for bowel problems and was suffering  from stress  related mental  health  
conditions. So Ive considered the severity of Mr Rs conditions at the time to decide if they 
would cause him to be unable  to perform the duties of his role.  
Depression, stress  and anxiety: 
I can see that Mr R had been suffering from stress,  anxiety  and depression  for a few years 
prior to making the claim. His GP notes  dated  29 June 2015 state currently  suffering with 
stress, anxiety and depression linked to work related issueskeeping him awake at night 
and he feels that the chance  to talk these through with a counsellor  will be helpful to him. Mr 
R is referred to a counsellor  and I can see from these reports  that his stress levels went  up 
and down. His counsellor said his stress is rooted in the work culture he is experiencing. 
Ref: DRN02278872So Ive considered if there was a deterioration in Mr Rs mental  health  conditions before his 
2017 absence  to show why he would suddenly be less able to perform the duties of his role 
than he had been previously.  But based  on what Ive seen, there  isnt enough medical  
evidence to conclude  Mr Rs stress, anxiety or depression had worsened in 2017. 
I can see from his medical  history that in 2015 Mr R was prescribed a low dose of 
Mirtazapine. But he says he only started  re-taking the medication from September 2017. In 
any event, Im satisfied that in 2017  the dosage prescribed to him remained low.  Mr R has 
said he varies the dose up and down himself  as necessary but there isnt medical evidence 
to show he was instructed  to do this. And there isnt evidence the GP or occupational  
therapist felt a higher dosage or change of type of medication to reflect  a change in Mr Rs 
illness around the time he went off work. By December 2017  Mr R reported mirtazapine  was 
making a difference with his mood. And in June 2018 Mr R tells occupational health  that he 
is deriving benefit  from counselling. This suggests  his medication and treatment were 
working and his condition got better  rather than worse,  so its likely he wouldve returned to 
work. 
Mr R has made reference to providing  additional  medical evidence  to show  the cause of his 
anxiety and depression, but Im satisfied this isnt necessary. Its not in dispute that Mr R 
suffered from these mental  health conditions for some time. But Im unable  to conclude  there  
was a deterioration in his mental health  state before his absence  to show why he would 
suddenly be less able to perform the duties of his role than he had been previously.  
Despite Mr R being on medication and attending counselling and therapy, I also cant see 
that he was referred  to a specialist for further investigations. I would have  expected 
discussions to have  taken  place around  a referral had there been a significant change  in his 
conditions that would  render him incapable of performing  the duties of his role. 
Mr R has said that his occupational health report state he was unfit for work on medical 
grounds and prove his case. So Ive looked through them all carefully, but I disagree. In in 
essence all the reports suggest the main reason Mr R was unable to work was due to issues 
with his employer/colleagues rather than a medical illness.  Although I appreciate these work-
related issues (and personal issues) cause Mr R anxiety, stress and depression, Im 
persuaded that situational  changes would help resolve Mr Rs symptoms, rather than 
treatment or medication. And this is supported by the occupational health reports  that all 
refer to workplace adjustments and conversations to facilitate a return to work for Mr R. 
In the first report dated 31 October 2017, it says Mr R was suffering  with a combination of 
work and personal  stress. In relation  to work  he did relate concerns about changes  in 
business structure and continuity as well as relationships at work. The GP notes support 
this stating that work and personal  stress appear  dominantly as a barrier to Mr R returning to 
work. 
In the report dated  12 February 2018  it states Mr R informed our physician of a number  of 
work-related stressors and concerns and a number of personal stressors in recent  years . 
Although the report concludes  Mr R is currently unfit for work,  it states it is optimistic  that 
with further treatment he should make  a good  enough  recovery  to remain  at work with 
adjustments and provide reliable service  and attendance going forward.
The June 2018 report again explains the main  barriers to Mr Rs return to work appear to be 
situational. I understand from our regional occupational physician that the main barrier to Mr 
Ref: DRN02278873Rs return to work is his psychological  state and his work-related concerns leading  to some 
disaffection with work. I understand there  has been  an issue  regarding emails about  Mr R 
from colleagues, and he also now has a lack of trust in his manager. It goes on to advise 
these psychological  problems could be improved with a meeting with HR where his 
concerns regarding his perceived treatment can be investigated.  It also says I understand 
Mr R has no problems undertaking his role as a Project Surveyor. When  his psychological 
state has improved  he will be fit to continue  in his role. His problems are treatable, and I 
would expect him to return to good  health. 
As such,  Im not persuaded these reports prove Mr R was incapacitated due to an illness 
injury. I think the main cause of Mr Rs ability to work was situational  and this then triggered 
Mr Rs mental  health conditions.  And Im not persuaded the impact of these conditions were 
enough to render Mr R incapable of fulfilling  the duties of his role. 
In response to our investigators assessments, Mr R has referred  to issues  with his employer 
going back a few years escalating  in 2017 which resulted in his anxiety and depression 
related absence. He also said his work were not assisting with a route back  to work that 
would alleviate his depression. This supports my view that the reason Mr R was unable to 
work was situational and this stress  may have been alleviated with work adjustments  and an 
investigation into Mr Rs work related stress,  rather than any increase in medication or 
medical treatment that I wouldve expected if the cause  was an illness. 
Bowel condition: 
Mr Rs bowel condition has also been  an issue over the years  with symptoms and flare ups 
being reported since 2010.  And besides  the physical symptoms, its also clear how upsetting  
this has been  on Mr R emotionally and how it has impacted his feelings at work. Hes said 
that due to his need to be close to a bathroom, it caused work stress  and depression  when 
in the office. So Ive considered if this condition would cause Mr R unable to perform  the 
duties of his role at the time. 
The medical information confirms Mr R underwent a colonoscopy for his bowel problems in 
January 2017.  On 4 October 2017 the consultant gastroenterologist says the MRI results 
were completely normal. Dietary changes were recommended  to improve  Mr Rs 
symptoms, but no further concerns were raised.  Im satisfied by the professional opinion of 
the consultant in this area.  
By 2018 Mr R had been diagnosed with IBS and he reported diarrhoea which usually 
occurred in the morning between 7 o'clock  and noon. Although  this wouldve been difficult to 
manage in an office environment,  Im unable to conclude this would have  prevented Mr R 
from fulfilling the duties of his role. Occupation health advises Mr R to take regular toilet and 
adequate refreshment breaks and he may require some flexibility around  working  hours to 
attend any related  GP appointments. Also working from home would alleviate any concerns 
about travelling  when systematic. So I believe this condition to be manageable for Mr R.
Continuing to work:
The definition of incapacity in the policy terms requires the policyholder not to perform any
occupation. On 12 October 2017  it was noted by Mr Rs GP that he was still dealing with 
ongoing stress at work. The notes say He is working from home despite I issued fit not end 
of Sept 2017.   Work  stress is also mentioned again  on 17 October  2017 when he confirmed 
again that he was working  from home  despite  being off sick. And Mr R also advised his GP 
that he was continuing to work from home in January 2018 and March  2018.
Ref: DRN02278874Mr R has said hed stopped working by March  2018, but by definition of the policy  he was 
also required  not to work  from September 2017  for 26 consecutive  weeks  during his deferred 
period. And the evidence shows he did continue to work during  this time. 
Because Mr R continued to work,  it shows he wasnt prevented from continuing  with his work 
duties. I appreciate his employer  asked him to but unfortunately this goes against his claim 
that he was incapacitated  and couldnt perform the duties of his role because of illness,  even 
if it was just for an hour or so as a regular occurrence.
In summary,  Im not satisfied Mr R meets the definition of incapacity. Theres  no dispute he 
has been suffering  with bowel issues, stress,  depression  and anxiety - but the evidence  
doesnt show his conditions worsened so he prevented from performing the duties of his 
role.  In addition, because Mr R continued to work from home during the deferred period so I 
cant say he was unable  to work because of his conditions.  
Therefore Im of the opinion Unum  has acted fairly  in declining  Mr Rs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0227887