K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that because of BISL Limiteds handling of their motor  
insurance policies  Mr S lost his nine years no claims discount  (NCD)  entitlement.
Reference to BISL includes  its agents.
background 
In September  2016 Mr and Mrs S bought a policy sold and administered  by BISL, although 
its branded in the name of a high street bank. Mr S initially applied for the policy online 
naming himself as the policyholder and regular driver, and with him having nine years NCD. 
He added Mrs S as a second driver. BISL  quoted  him a premium of £177.90.  Mr S then 
altered the details and made  Mrs S the regular driver and himself the second driver.  He left 
the NCD details  unchanged. The premium reduced  to £132.82.  Mr S bought that policy  and 
BISL sent the policy documents addressed  to Mr S. The policy schedule showed  Mr S as the 
policyholder and Mrs S as the regular driver.  It gave Mr S as the second  driver. It said that 
the number of years NCD you are claiming was nine. 
Before the policy renewed in 2017 Mr S noticed that he could get a cheaper  premium by 
taking a policy online. He phoned BISL to cancel  the automatic renewal and said he would 
apply for its policy  online. While doing  so he named  Mrs S as both the policyholder and 
regular driver, he said there was nine years  NCD. For technical reasons Mr S couldn't  
complete the policy application online so he rang BISL. He said Mrs S was the main  driver 
and policyholder. He confirmed that the rest of the details entered  online, including nine 
years NCD,  were correct. BISL issued  the policy documents  addressed to Mrs S. It said that 
she was the policyholder and regular driver, with nine years NCD and that Mr S was the 
second driver.
Mr S later rang BISL to say he should be the policyholder not Mrs S. But he said Mrs S 
hadn't given him permission to discuss the policy, so BISL didnt take the call any further.
Some months later Mrs S rang BISL to change the car on the policy.  She asked if she could 
change the policy into Mr S name. BISL  told her it could only do that by cancelling it and 
issuing a new policy. Mrs S said theyd leave things as they were.  
Mr and Mrs S didn't renew with BISL in September 2018. Instead  Mr S bought a policy from 
another provider.  Mr S told that provider that he had nine years  NCD, which  the other 
provider asked him to validate. But when he asked BISL for details of his NCD it said that it 
was Mrs S not him that had earned the NCD. And it sent him a letter  saying that Mrs S had 
nine years NCD. The other provider said that as Mr S couldn't show he had nine years NCD 
earned in the last two years it would charge him an additional premium. 
Mr S said that because of BISLs mistakes his NCD had been erased.  He brought  his 
complaint to us. Our adjudicator noted that the paperwork BISL issued in 2016  was 
confusing. In particular because the schedule indicated that it was using Mr S NCD on the 
policy. To put things  right BISL offered to give Mr S NCD for that year he was the 
policyholder. It said it would write to him to say that he had nine years NCD at the end of the 
policy in September  2017. And that Mrs S had accrued two years  NCD  for the policy years 
ending in 2017 and 2018. Our adjudicator explained that Mr S could give that letter to his 
new insurance provider  to show that when  he took out the policy  with it in September  2018, 
Ref: DRN08283692he still had nine years  NCD  earned within the last two years.  Mr and Mrs S didn't accept that 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that BISLs  offer 
to resolve the complaint was reasonable.
In bringing this complaint Mr and Mrs S have made a number of detailed points and I've 
considered everything  theyve said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what I see as 
being the key issues.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that their motor policies have always been in Mr Ss name. So 
Mrs S didn't  have any NCD  entitlement. And they think BISL  set up the policies incorrectly, 
which resulted in Mr S losing his NCD entitlement. But the evidence I've seen shows me 
that's not the case.
When Mr S first looked  for a quote online he said that he would  be the policyholder  and 
regular driver. He said he had nine years NCD. But he didn't go ahead  and buy the policy 
using those details.  Instead he changed the regular driver to Mrs S. But crucially he didn't 
change the NCD  entitlement.
It might help if I explain that its usual for an NCD entitlement to only apply to the main or 
regular driver. And it will be the regular driver who earns any extra  year of NCD for claim free 
driving while the policy is in place and who benefits  from the premium  reduction because of 
the years  theyve earned their NCD. Its not often the case  that an insurer will apply an NCD 
to a policy where that NCD  has been  earned  by a second driver. So, when Mr S changed the 
regular driver from himself to Mrs S he should  also have changed the NCD entitlement from 
nine years to zero.  But it appears that the online process didn't prompt  him to do so and he 
overlooked that. That means that when  he received  the online quote, with Mrs S as the 
regular driver, as far as BISL was aware Mrs S had nine years NCD in her own right. So the 
quote it gave to Mr S, which he accepted, was based on Mrs S having nine years NCD.
At that time Mr S was still named as the policyholder. So the policy information BISL was 
addressed to him. And given that it talked about  your NCD entitlement  I can understand 
that Mr S would believe that was the NCD hed earned rather  than NCD attributed  to Mrs S. 
So I can understand why Mr S didn't  realise the anomaly at the time.
But, in September  2018, the policyholder on the policy changed to Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S think 
that's because BISL made  a mistake. But I've heard the call in which Mr S completes  the 
policy sale. BISL asked  him for the name of the policyholder and Mr S says:
It would have been mine  but the wifes  the main driver of the car so its actually [Mrs 
S name]
He then confirmed  the rest of Mrs S details as being those of the policyholder,  that she was 
happy for him to set the policy up for her and that the other details hed completed  online 
were correct. Those details included  that Mrs S had nine years NCD. So BISL set the policy  
up with Mrs S as the policyholder and with her having nine years  NCD entitlement. That 
wasn't BISLs mistake, that was what Mr S had asked it to do. 
Ref: DRN08283693After receiving the policy documents Mr S rang BISL. Its clear now that he didn't realise that 
hed essentially changed the policyholder details himself in the earlier call. And that he 
thought that BISL should still be treating him as the policyholder. But as I've said above, by 
that time,  because of what hed told BISL  to do, he was no longer the policyholder  Mrs S 
was. And because he told BISL he didn't  have  Mrs S permission  to discuss the policy details  
it couldn't make any amendments with him. And in doing so BISL was following accepted 
data protection  rules.  So I don't  think it did anything  wrong at that time. 
Mr and Mrs S could  have rung back later and confirmed Mr S had permission to discuss  the 
policy or Mrs S could have spoken  with BISL  herself. But they didn't do so at that time. So 
BISL left the policy  untouched. And when, some months later, Mrs S did discuss changing 
the name of the policyholder to Mr S, BISL said that the only way to do that would  be to 
cancel the policy.  But Mrs S chose not to do that. And, as I've said above, Im satisfied that 
BISL didn't make a mistake in putting  Mrs S name on the policy. It simply did what  Mr S had 
asked it to do. It follows that I don't  think BISL  did anything wrong in the manner in which  it 
set up the policy.
As a result when BISL sent Mr and Mrs S proof of NCD, it thought  that, as the regular driver 
it considered that Mrs S was the driver  whod earned the NCD. And given thats the 
information Mr S had given it when taking the policies out I can understand  why it did so. It 
follows that I don't think BISL did anything wrong, at that time, in not confirming  Mr S had 
nine years NCD because  he hadn't ever been the regular driver who would  usually be the 
person who is entitled to the NCD on the policy.  Im aware that the new insurance provider 
contacted BISL  directly  but BISL simply told it the information Mr S had given it initially when 
hed set the policies up. So the fact that his new insurance provider charged Mr S more for 
his policy  because he couldn't  prove hed earned NCD in the previous two years wasn't 
BISLs fault. 
But, as I've said above, the documents BISL issued in September  2016 weren't clear as to 
whose NCD entitlement  was being applied to the policy. So it was reasonable that Mr S 
would continue to think it was his NCD on the policy. BISL  accepts that's the case. So to 
resolve the complaint it suggested  that it would write to Mr and Mrs S and confirm that Mr S 
had nine years NCD   which is the maximum  it will allow - as of September  2017, when Mr S 
ceased to be the policyholder. Mr S could  then have given that letter  to his new insurance  
provider who could  then decide if it wanted  to recalculate Mr and Mrs S premium based on 
nine years NCD earned within the last two years. I think that was a reasonable solution to 
the complaint.  I note that Mr and Mrs S chose not to accept  that solution  because they 
thought that any error was BISLs. But as I've explained above  thats  not the case. So, I think  
its reasonable for BISL to take that action now. And if Mr and Mrs S accept my findings, I 
will require BISL to write to Mr and Mrs S and confirm that Mr S had nine years  NCD as of 
September 2017 and that Mrs S had accrued two years NCD as of September  2018.
For completeness Ill add that I know Mr and Mrs S are concerned about what  might have 
happened if they'd  had to make a claim on their policy.  But thankfully that situation didn't  
arise. And I don't think theres  any value  in me commenting on what  could  hypothetically 
have happened  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require BISL Limited to write to 
Mr and Mrs S and confirm that Mr S had nine years  NCD as of September 2017  and that 
Mrs S had accrued  two years NCD as of September 2018.
Ref: DRN08283694Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0828369