K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 by post.  Ms D says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Ms S aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding the policy to her card. Capital One has sent us a copy of the application form Ms D 
completed when  she applied for her card and PPI. It was completed  without any interaction 
with a Capital  One representative. The form had equal options to either accept or decline the 
policy. The option  to take the policy has been  selected and the form has been signed in 
agreement with the selections made on it. So I think Capital One made  it clear  that Ms D 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand 
why she may not remember  this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms D so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms D got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had of 
making her repayments, which included sick pay and help from her partner. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Ms Ds sick pay and for longer. And while  Ms Ds partner would 
have wanted to help their ability to do so would have been  dependent on their circumstances 
at the time, which could  have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Ds circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
Ive thought about everything Ms D has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Ref: DRN13039642Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1303964