K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about the way Skyfire Insurance Company Limited handled his claim 
under his motor  policy and then increased  his premium when he moved house.
background
Mr Rs car was damaged  by a car, which the police were chasing. So he made  a claim. 
Ultimately, the insurers of that other  driver didnt admit liability  so court  proceedings have 
been instituted by Skyfire  for the recovery of its outlay in repairing Mr Rs car. This inevitably 
caused delays.  Skyfire accepted it could have done more  to chase things up initially, so it 
paid Mr R £150 compensation.
Mr R also moved  house mid-term during his policy year. Skyfire increased his premium 
substantially which Mr R thought was unfair.  So he complained. But Skyfire  wouldnt change 
its stance so he brought his complaint to us.
The adjudicator didnt think Skyfire had done anything  wrong. Mr R didnt agree so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Dealing first with Mr Rs claim for damage to his car, Skyfire  were dependent on finding the 
insurers of the other driver and persuading them to accept liability. This took time and now 
legal proceedings have  been issued by Skyfire  to recover  its outlay  in repairing Mr Rs car. 
Skyfire conceded  it could have done more to chase up things initially, so it paid Mr R £150 
compensation for this. I consider this reasonable, and in line with what I would have awarded  
to Mr R, had Skyfire not done so. Sadly,  cases like this where the other  drivers  insurers 
dont accept responsibility along  with the added police involvement and now legal 
proceedings always take time. So I think Skyfire doesnt need to pay Mr R any increased  
compensation for its initial delays.
Turning to the issue of the premium increase Skyfire imposed  when Mr R moved house. As 
the adjudicator  explained,  we dont regulate  insurers or tell insurers  what premium amount it 
ought to charge its customers. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. All insurers 
are entitled  to decide for themselves, what risks they wish to insure and for how much  and 
what issues to take into consideration  when doing so.
Our role is to simply assess  whether the issues Skyfire took into account  in imposing the 
premium increase applied  to all customers in a similar situation  to Mr R, to ensure Mr R 
wasnt singled out or treated unfairly.
We asked Skyfire to explain its calculations. Theyre commercially sensitive so I can share  
them with Mr R. The factors Skyfire took into account in increasing his premium after moving 
house are the same  it applies  to all its customers based on its assessments  of the risks.  
Consequently, theres  no evidence that Mr R was singled  out or treated  unfairly.  
Ref: DRN13811292my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1381129