K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that FirstRand  Bank  Limited placed  an adverse entry on his credit  file in 
relation to a debt.
background 
In 2014 Mr J acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand. He fell into 
arrears and his car was repossessed and sold at auction. The proceeds  were used to reduce 
his debt. Mr J says that at the time he was suffering mental health issues.  He also says he 
had entered into an agreement  with a FirstRand employee regarding  the entry on his credit 
file.
FirstRand say that Mr J made an offer to settle his debt in July 2014 to pay £2,895.58 to 
settle the finance in full and for all negative markers  to be removed from his credit  file. This 
was accepted and Mr J sent a cheque,  but this bounced. 
On the 7 August 2014 it agreed to accept the offer a second time as long as payment was 
received by 15 August 2014.  This was extended  on two occasions and a cheque was 
received on 9 September with a request not to bank  it until 10 October 2014. FirstRand 
agreed, but it was returned unpaid  on 17 October.
It then decided that this offer was no longer open and sought full payment of the debt and 
took legal  steps to enforce payment. A court awarded a suspended goods  order  and Mr J 
was to make  monthly payments of £70. If he failed to make any of these payments the 
business was entitled to repossess the car. It says Mr J missed  his June and July 2015 
payments and the car was repossessed and sold at auction for £3,438. Around this time Mr 
Js offer to pay £3,000 was rejected. FirstRand continued to pursue Mr J for the outstanding 
balance.
There followed an email exchange and Mr J says the business wrote to him on 20 October 
2015 to say that it would  no longer correspond with him due to what it regarded as vexatious 
comments. In that email  the author wrote: We agree  to amend your credit  file and mark the 
entries as Under  query and close the account with a zero balance. However the business 
didnt mark his credit file as it said it would and in late 2018 sold the debt. 
He made  a complaint about FirstRands handling of the matter  and he also complained that 
some of his personal  items had been  in the car when it was repossessed and not returned  to 
him. He also said that he had been affected by mental health  issues and the business had 
not taken these into account.  It said that it had asked him about  these issues  back in 2015 
and that it took such matters seriously. These complaints were rejected by the business  in 
June 2017.
Mr J brought the matter  to this service  in March 2018. Initially  it was considered to be out of 
our jurisdiction due to six months having  expired since the issue of the final response letter. 
However, it was subsequently agreed  with the business that we could consider its merits. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who noted  the business  couldnt 
find any trace of the 20 October 2015 email. Nonetheless, she said she had no reason to 
conclude it wasnt genuine.  FirstRand said it wasnt  something  it wouldve  agreed to. The 
email referred to a phone conversation and thought  it possible that adviser made  a mistake.
Ref: DRN14741562She said that sometimes this service  will ask a business to change  the information  they are 
reporting on someones credit file. We would do this when we think  the business has made a 
mistake. However, the business  had a duty to record information about  Mr Js account  
correctly to credit reference  agencies.  The car was repossessed  and there was an 
outstanding balance due. As such the account was in default and it was reasonable that it be 
reported as such. 
Even though  the adviser may have made a mistake, the investigator said that this didnt 
mean that she should ask that the default  marker  be removed. To do so would mean that the 
file wouldnt accurately reflect the situation.
However, she thought  the email was misleading  and Mr J had been waiting for the matter to 
be resolved for some time.  She thought that Mr J should be compensated for the errors and 
being misled. She suggested the business pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused.
FirstRand agreed, but Mr J did not. He said that FirstRand  had made  a contract  with him in 
the email and it should be honoured. The business  had some  discretion and didnt have to 
report the default on his credit  file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that Mr Js account  was in frequent default and that the business  showed a 
great degree  of patience  in allowing him a number of opportunities to clear  his arrears. 
These werent taken  and the car was repossessed. I note that during this process Mr J 
raised the issue of his mental health  and I am satisfied  that the business responded 
appropriately and asked for further  details in order to help him resolve  the matter.  I have  also 
taken note of his health in reaching  my decision.  
As for the email of 20 October it is unusual for the business not to have a copy  on file. I have 
looked at an email sent to Mr J on 29 September which I believe the business has on record 
and it is remarkably similar to the later one. It doesnt have the reference to closing he 
account with a zero balance  or amending the credit  file. However, it ends in the same way, 
i.e. For the avoidance  of doubt,  this is the last time we will respond to the complaints,  which  
you have repeatedly raised  and, in our opinion,  have already been dealt with. 
It is not clear  why the same employee  would have continued correspondence  after 29 
September when  he had already made it plain he would not do so? Or why he would repeat 
much of his earlier  email verbatim. However, the investigator has accepted  the email as 
genuine and I will proceed on that assumption.
I agree  with the investigator that there  was no basis for the default not being reported  to the 
credit reference agencies. Mr J was in default  and I believe it only right that it is so reported.  
However, Mr J believed  he had an agreement that it wouldnt be and for that I think it only 
fair that he be compensated. I appreciate Mr J considers the business was legally  obliged  to 
honour the contents of the 20 October  email and if he wishes to pursue that view then I think  
it is better suited to the courts  to decide than this service.
Ref: DRN14741563Our role where a mistake has been  made  is to put consumers back  in the positon they would 
have been had it not happened.  The only error I can see is the apparent agreement that the 
business would write off the debt and not report the default. That has led to an expectation 
by Mr J which has not been met and one he has held for several years.  Therefore, I agree 
that the business should pay him compensation. 
I dont consider the issue of his personal possessions  going missing has been established 
and I note he was given due warning of the repossession and he had ample opportunity to 
remove these. As such I do not uphold  that element of his complaint. Finally,  I note that Mr J 
has recently raised separate complaint about  the sale of the debt by the business. I have not 
considered that in this decision as FirstRand is entitled to address it before it is referred  to 
this service, if indeed Mr J chooses to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct FirstRand Bank  Limited to 
pay Mr J £250 compensation for any distress and inconvenience he may have suffered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1474156