K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a Passport  account
and an Advance  packaged bank account taken  out in June 2009 and May 2011, 
respectively. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2020 and explained why I did not believe that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ive attached  a copy of my provisional  decision and it forms part 
of this decision.
HSBC did not add any further points.  Mrs Ks representative reiterated  that it believed  that 
the accounts were  mis-sold and that Mrs K was not given the option of a fee-free account 
during any of her meetings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to help 
decide what to do about Mrs Ks complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that at the time of both of the sales  I am satisfied  that 
Mrs K was not eligible for a fee free account. In the first sale Mrs K was only eligible for the 
Passport account  and during the second sale she was eligible for the Passport or the 
Advance account. I believe  that during the second  sale, Mrs K chose the Advance account 
as the benefits  it came  with were more appealing  to her compared  to what the Passport 
account offered  her.
Mrs Ks representative says in two meetings  after the sales  of the accounts she was not 
made aware  that fee-free accounts  were  now available  to her. I have carefully considered 
this but overall  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision,  I think  its more likely  than 
not that it was mentioned.
Because of this, I remain of the view that HSBC did not mis-sell Mrs K the Passport and 
Advance accounts.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
I do not think that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold Mrs K the Passport  or Advance accounts.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10138562copy of my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, I dont currently think  either of the 
packaged accounts were mis-sold. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision in more detail. 
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mrs K was given  a clear choice in taking this account.  At this 
point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based  on what I think 
was more likely than not to have happened, based  on all of the evidence  that is available.  
Ref: DRN10138563I should also explain that what I mean  by fair choice,  is whether Mrs K was given a fair 
choice between the HSBC accounts  that were  available to her at the time of each sale. But 
its not always the case that every type of account offered by a bank is available to each and 
every consumer. This is because the specific circumstances of the consumer may prevent 
them from being able to have certain  accounts.
During the first sale, its my understanding that Mrs K was only eligible  for a Passport account. 
So although  Mrs K might not have been  made aware that free accounts were  available to her, 
because they were not actually available to her. HSBC says this was because she did not 
meet the criteria to have  a fee free current account. And in the circumstances, I think HSBCs 
decision to limit what type of accounts Mrs K could have was not unreasonable in the 
circumstances. So I dont  think that HSBC did anything wrong in relation to this. 
During the second sale HSBC have said that Mrs K was still not eligible for a fee-free 
account. The screen shots HSBC has been  able to provide do indicate  that the only options 
available to Mrs K was to either stay on the Passport  account that she already held, or take 
out the Advance account. 
A personal  recommendation was made during the sale of the Advance account  and 
therefore, HSBC  had to ensure that the account  was a reasonable fit for Mrs Ks 
circumstances. In this instance the main differences between the accounts was that the 
Advance account came with travel  insurance. And Mrs K said she did travel and did not have 
her own existing cover. So I think that its likely that she was given the choice between  these 
two accounts  and she chose the Advance account  as it came with more  relevant benefits to 
her. And as this was the cheapest account HSBC offered  with travel insurance, I think that it 
was a reasonable fit for Mrs K
I accept that during both sales Mrs K may not have  been told everything  about all of the 
benefits that the accounts came with. But I cant see anything  specific that she was not told 
that I think wouldve  altered her decision to take out the accounts.
HSBC has said that after the Advance sale, Mrs K had two meetings  with HSBC - one in 
2011 and another in 2013 to apply for a credit card and overdraft.  In these meetings HSBC 
has explained that as part of its budget planning process, the availability of free accounts 
wouldve been highlighted to Mrs K. So I think its likely that this wouldve been mentioned 
during these meetings. So I think its more likely that Mrs K chose to keep the Advance 
account due to the benefits that it came with.
Overall and having looked at everything  I currently do not think  that either account was mis-
sold for the reasons set out above.
Ref: DRN1013856