K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
February 1996. A further advance  was arranged in 2001 and another  policy was also sold at 
this time. Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below.
When selling  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs L, Nationwide shouldve taken reasonable steps to 
make it clear  the policies  were optional. It also shouldve got their agreement to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs L say that they had no choice in the matter and the sale of the MPPI  was simply 
incorporated into the mortgage  transactions. It seems the MPPI on both occasions  was sold 
in branch. Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any paperwork from the time the sales 
took place. This is unfortunate, but not unusual given  how long ago they took place. And 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. 
Where I have  limited information about a sale, I have to decide what  I think  is more  likely to 
have happened. Based on what we know about  how MPPI was sold and Nationwides sales  
practices I think its very unlikely the policy wouldve been set up without some paperwork 
being completed or a discussion taking place about it. The MPPI was set up in 1996  and 
2001 to cover their mortgage so there would have been some discussion around the level of 
cover and benefit amount. Nationwide has also provided mortgage  statements  which  
wouldve been sent annually, and these  include  a breakdown of the annual  charges, 
including the cost of the MPPI.   This shows that the MPPI has been set up and if Mr and 
Mrs L had any queries regarding it I would have  expected them to raise  these  at that time.
So taking everything in to account,  Im satisfied its more likely that Mr and Mrs L gave their 
consent for the MPPI  to be set up on both occasions and the policies were  presented  as 
optional. Although I can understand why they may not remember this as it was so long ago.
Nationwide didnt provide Mr and Mrs L with advice  to take out the MPPI policies.  This 
means it shouldve  given them clear information about the policy so that they could  make  a 
proper choice about whether or not to take it out.
I dont know what steps Nationwide took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been.  But I dont think  clearer information wouldve 
changed Mr and Mrs Ls decision. I think theyd still have bought  it and Ill explain why.
The MPPI provided cover for Mr L only in both 1996  and 2001.  And from what I can see it 
seem Mr L was eligible  for the MPPI  on both occasions  as he met the basic requirements of 
the policy.
Looking at Mr Ls circumstances  at the time of both sales  he wouldnt have been affected  by 
any of the things the policy didnt  cover  like known health  issues or unusual  employment 
arrangements. So there  was nothing to stop him claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed 
needed to. 
Ref: DRN14001562Mr and Mrs L say Mr L had generous provisions  in place if he was off work due to sickness  
as he was a company director. I dont doubt  this, but I still think the MPPI wouldve been of 
use. I say this because  it wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if Mr L was off work due to 
accident or sickness. And it would have provided  cover if he lost his job. This cover wouldve 
allowed Mr and Mrs L to use any employer benefits to cover  other  living expenses.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on their home.  So the effects  of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been 
serious for them. And I think having the security that the repayments  wouldve been made if 
Mr L was unable to work  wouldve been  important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs L. And as the policys  
premiums were paid monthly,  they could have amended  or cancelled the policy  if it no longer 
met their needs.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said, including  Mr Ls comments  about  the 
principles of contract law and misrepresentation. I appreciate there  is limited  information in 
this complaint. But as I have explained, in these situations we look at the balance of 
probabilities and what we think is more likely to have  happened,  based on our experience of 
these cases, regulatory  guidance  and industry  practice. And of course, we consider the 
relevant law, but we are not bound by it. And taking all of this into account  in Mr and Mrs Ls 
induvial case  there isnt enough to make  me think Nationwide  mis-sold them the MPPI. I 
know my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L as they feel very strongly about 
their complaint. But I hope Ive clearly set out why I dont think Nationwide did anything 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide  Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1400156