K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  because BUPA  Insurance  Limited has refused  to pay a claim for 
treatment Mr F had abroad under their private  medical insurance policy. 
Background
Mr and Mrs F have  cover  under  a group private  medical insurance scheme, provided by BUPA.
BUPA paid for platelet  infusions Mr F had in the UK. While on holiday abroad,  Mr F needed 
a platelet infusion and paid for this himself. He asked BUPA  to reimburse  him for the money  
hed spent.
BUPA refused. It said Mr Fs policy covers planned private treatment in the UK but doesnt
cover overseas medical costs for treatment of an existing medical condition. BUPA said, if
Mr F was travelling  abroad in future,  he may wish to consider  buying  travel insurance to
cover medical treatment while he was away.
Mr F complained to BUPA and said he thought its decision  was unfair because BUPA would
have paid for the treatment if hed had it in the UK. Mr F also said he wouldnt have been
able to buy travel insurance  to cover the circumstances of his claim,  as hed known hed
need a blood test and platelet infusion  while he was on holiday.
BUPA investigated Mr Fs complaint and said his policy only covered treatment at a
recognised hospital under the care of a recognised consultant. BUPA said Mr Fs policy
doesnt cover overseas  medical treatment where the policyholder  knew  they needed
treatment or thought  they might. BUPA apologised for suggesting  Mr F should have
purchased travel insurance to cover his situation.
As Mr F remained  unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for BUPA  to pay Mr Fs claim  up to 
the amount it would have paid if hed received the treatment in the UK. BUPA didnt agree so 
the complaint  was passed to me. 
I made  my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in March  2020. In it, I said:
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I dont think his claim  is covered under his policy, and I dont
think it would  be fair or reasonable  to ask BUPA to reimburse him for the money  he paid for
his treatment abroad. Ill explain why.
The insurance cover Mr F holds for treatment costs is dependent  on him using BUPA 
recognised medical  practitioners and BUPA recognised medical  facilities.  His policy  covers
overseas medical  treatment in limited, emergency  circumstances  only.  Overseas treatment
isnt covered if the policyholder:
knew you would need the treatment  or thought you might
Its common for private medical insurers to restrict cover in this way. I dont think  this is unfair
and I think Mr Fs policy is clear  in this regard. So, I dont think  Mr Fs claim is covered under
the terms and conditions of his policy.
Ref: DRN14701632I understand Mr Fs point  that, if hed had the treatment in the UK, BUPA  would have paid for
the cost. Mr F believes his location was irrelevant and therefore,  he thinks  BUPAs position is
unfair. But, this isnt how private medical insurance works. Mr F didnt have his treatment in
the UK, in a BUPA approved facility  and the treatment wasnt carried  out by a BUPA
approved medical  practitioner. Mr F had his treatment abroad, which  isnt covered  under his
policy. BUPA has decided that a situation  like the one Mr F is claiming  for isnt something it
wishes to cover. So, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could ask
BUPA to reimburse  him for any of the money  he has paid.
Mr Fs policy documents advise him to call BUPA if he is unsure of whether he is covered. If
Mr F knew hed need treatment abroad then it was open to him to contact BUPA in advance
to check whether hed be covered for this. BUPA could then have explained these treatment
costs wouldnt be covered by Mr Fs policy and Mr F could have  decided  how he wanted to
proceed. But, it wouldnt have been BUPAs responsibility to cover the cost if Mr F decided to
cancel his holiday  Mr F holds a private medical insurance policy with BUPA,  not a travel
insurance policy. Its for Mr F to ensure  he has appropriate travel insurance covering his
medical conditions  in the event that he needs  to cancel a pre-booked holiday.
I understand BUPA suggested  to Mr F that a travel insurance policy  may have covered the
cost of the platelet infusion he had on holiday. As Mr F has correctly  pointed out, he was
aware hed need a blood test and platelet infusion  abroad, so a travel  insurance policy is
unlikely to have  covered  such a situation.  BUPA has apologised for any upset caused by this
suggestion, so I dont intend  to recommend it should do anything further.
Mr F didnt  accept my provisional  decision and responded with additional  comments, which 
our investigator forwarded to BUPA. BUPA  didnt  respond to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Fs further comments and given  careful thought to the arguments he is making. 
Its clear Mr F feels strongly about the matter, but I wont  be changing my provisional findings. 
The private medical insurance market is based on an insurers  ability to authorise  specific  
medical professionals and medical facilities as ones  under which  and in which  they are 
prepared to cover treatment.
I understand Mr F has lost out financially but the terms and conditions  of his policy  only 
cover overseas treatment  in certain,  limited  situations. The primary  purpose  of the policy  is 
to cover treatment in the UK and Mr F travelled  abroad  knowing  or thinking he might  need 
treatment while he was away. The policy doesnt cover treatment in this situation, which 
means Mr Fs claim  is excluded in its entirety  and BUPA isnt responsible for any of the costs 
Mr F incurred abroad. The treatment  abroad  having  been arranged by a BUPA-recognised 
consultant doesnt change  my thoughts on this. 
The fact that Mr Fs treatment would have  been covered if hed had it in the UK doesnt 
mean it would  be fair to ask BUPA to reimburse  the cost  or part of the cost - in 
circumstances where  the actual claim being  made is clearly  excluded from cover.  
Ref: DRN14701633I have sympathy with the situation Mr F found  himself in. I understand his travel insurance 
policy may not have  covered cancellation of his trip in these  circumstances and I also 
understand, based on what  Mr F has told us, why it was important for him to go ahead with 
his holiday. But this doesnt mean it would be fair or reasonable  to require BUPA  to pay for 
treatment which isnt covered under his private medical insurance policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 June 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1470163