K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale). He doesnt  feel Clydesdale has 
sufficiently compensated  him for the error it made  when it applied a payment to his Credit  
Card account.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 31 January 2019. Ive recapped the background below:
In October  2018 Clydesdale credited  a payment  of £2,049.30 to Mr Ts credit card account. 
Having noticed  the payment Mr T contacted Clydesdale to query where  it had come from. He 
also asked for confirmation the money  was his. Clydesdale advised  Mr T a number  of times 
that the payment credited to his account  was correct and that the money  belonged  to him. It 
explained that the £2,049.30 was a refund a company had issued  to an old credit card 
number. Clydesdale  said this had then been redirected  to Mr Ts active credit card account  
number.
Clydesdale later informed  Mr T that the payment to his credit  card account had been applied  
in error.  Further to this it reversed the £2,049.30 payment from Mr Ts account. Mr T later 
complained.
Clydesdale sent Mr T its final response  to his complaint on 15 November 2018. In summary 
it:
apologised for incorrectly telling him the £2,049.30 credited to his credit  card account 
was his and that it wouldnt  take these funds back
said the funds  paid to his credit  card account  actually  belonged to another  customer
said that for what had happened it would send Mr T a cheque for £200  as 
compensation
said it could understand why Mr T was unhappy  it had taken back the £2,049.30 
payment. But it hadnt done anything wrong  as the money didnt belong to Mr T.
Unhappy with Clydesdales response  Mr T referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
she didnt think Mr T should benefit from Clydesdales  error  so felt the bank was 
entitled to take back  the money  it had incorrectly credited  to his account
Clydesdale had put Mr T back in the position  he wouldve been were  it not for its 
error
she didnt think £200 compensation was fair for what had happened  and thought a 
further £300 was more appropriate  
Mr T responded saying  he disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary he said:
he didnt think the increased compensation figure recommended  by the investigator  
was fair 
because his Clydesdale credit card had been frozen hed spent some  of the money 
(approximately £900) hed thought  was available on his Clydesdale  credit card on 
one of this other credit  cards.  He said hes also spent £500 of his own cash that he 
wouldnt otherwise  have done  were  it not for the banks error
Ref: DRN13025622he considered  his financial losses to amount to £1,400
Clydesdales error had spoilt his birthday and had an impact on his children at 
Christmas because of how stressed he was about money
he was unhappy  Clydesdale has debited the £2,049.30 payment from his credit  card 
account
he suffered from anxiety and asked  this to be taken into account
Our investigator considered what Mr T said but said her view of Mr Ts complaint remained 
the same. 
Clydesdale responded and disagreed with our investigators assessment. It said it felt its 
£200 compensation offer was fair in the circumstances.
Because no agreement could  be reached the matter was passed  to me. And my provisional 
findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive 
taken note of the comments  made by both parties, I have limited my response to what I 
consider to be the central issues.
There isnt any dispute about the fact that Clydesdale incorrectly  applied a payment  of 
£2,049.30 to Mr Ts credit card account and, despite Mr T contacting it about the matter at 
the time;  it failed on several occasions  to correctly confirm that the money wasnt  his. What  
is in dispute is whether  Clydesdales decision to remove the overpaid amount from Mr Ts 
account was fair and reasonable  and if the £200  compensation it has offered for what 
happened sufficiently  resolves the matter. 
I can see that Mr T feels strongly about  what has happened here. And thats not surprising. 
But our approach to such an error is for the customer to be put back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the error hadnt occurred. As the £2,049.30 payment was incorrectly 
credited to Mr Ts account  its right that Clydesdale removed  this. It wouldnt be fair for Mr T 
to keep money which doesnt belong to him. 
I am however sympathetic  to Mr Ts position  and his frustration. Ive listened to the call Mr T 
originally had with Clydesdale  when he queried the £2,049.30 payment. Having done so, Im 
mindful of several  things:
Mr T took the reasonable steps  to find out why a payment he hadnt been expecting 
had been credited  to his account
Clydesdale provided Mr T with a plausible explanation  for the unexpected  payment  to 
his credit card account
Mr T asked several times for confirmation  from Clydesdale that the money  credited to 
his account was his
Clydesdale reassured Mr T three  times that the payment was genuine and the money 
was his to spend
Clydesdale assured Mr T several  times  that as the £2,049.30 payment belonged to 
him it wouldnt be taken  back
Its very disappointing Clydesdale made the error it did. And I think the call it had with Mr T 
where it incorrectly confirmed the £2,049.30 payment was his made an already unfortunate 
Ref: DRN13025623situation worse. The fact Mr T was told several  times that the money was his to spend and 
wouldnt be taken back unfairly  raised  his expectations. And this was despite his best efforts 
to make sure the money was in fact his and that the information he was being  given was 
correct. 
I dont think Mr T wouldve  spent the money he did at the time he did were it not for 
Clydesdales error. He was entitled  to rely on what Clydesdale  told him and so 
understandably he spent some  of the money Clydesdale  led him to believe he had and was 
available to him. I understand Mr T would like Clydesdale to pay him back  the money he 
unwittingly spent but I dont intend to direct Clydesdale to do this. Mr T has had the benefit of 
the money he spent  so to require Clydesdale to pay this back  to him would constitute 
betterment. 
I do however think Mr T has experienced some inconvenience regarding what  has happened 
because in essence he spent money he didnt have. And he used some of his own cash in 
good faith when he did this. 
While I think Clydesdales offer of £200  compensation goes some way towards 
compensating Mr T for what he has had to go through, I dont think  the offer sufficiently 
reflects the trouble and upset caused  to Mr T by its error. But Im also not persuaded that 
what Mr T has experienced warrants the £500 compensation recommended  by our 
investigator. 
I think £300 compensation  is a more appropriate  figure which takes  into account 
Clydesdales error, the misplaced assurances  it provided Mr T and the inconvenience he will 
have suffered spending his own cash when he wouldnt otherwise have done so. Im also 
mindful that given  the difficulties Mr T already deals with regarding his anxiety,  Clydesdales  
error and action taken  thereafter will have caused him avoidable stress. 
I appreciate that Mr T would like a substantial award  and certainly more than Clydesdale  has 
offered. But having carefully thought about  everything and considering  the impact of what  
happened I dont  think the level of compensation Mr T is seeking or which our investigator 
recommended would be appropriate in the circumstances.
Overall, I have  sympathy for Mr T and do understand why hes very unhappy. But I think  hes 
suffered a loss of expectation rather than any direct  financial loss. Its never  easy  to decide 
on the correct figure to compensate for the trouble  and upset this will have caused. And Ive 
no doubt that what has happened has caused  Mr T some distress,  but overall  I think  £300 
compensation is fair and properly takes  this into account. Im also mindful that Clydesdale  
reversed the incorrect transaction  on his account relatively quickly.
I note that Clydesdale considers Mr T shouldve been aware at the outset that it had made  
an error. It says that as Mr T only had his credit  card account with it from November 2017 
with only one card ever issued he ought to have known the reason he was given for the 
payment credited to his account wasnt correct. Im not persuaded by Clydesdales  argument  
here. Mr T was unsure why the payment  had been made and thats  why he queried this 
directly with Clydesdale.  He was entitled to rely on the information Clydesdale gave him. I 
dont think its fair to have  expected Mr T to have disputed  the explanation and assurances  
Clydesdale was providing him with at the time or for him to have necessarily remembered 
(given that he has other credit cards) how many  credit cards hed had issued and when.
Ref: DRN13025624While I dont intend to direct Clydesdale as Mr T would like, in that I dont  think  Clydesdale  
should repay the money he spent, credit  his account with the payment he was never entitled 
to or pay more than £300 compensation for trouble  and upset caused, I should say that I do 
think its entirely reasonable for him to expect Clydesdale to provide him with correct  
information. And its unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen.  I am genuinely sorry to 
hear of the impact  that this has had on Mr T.
I invited Mr T and Clydesdale  to comment on my provisional decision.
Clydesdale explained  that it didnt necessarily  agree  that the additional £100 compensation I 
recommended was necessary but so as not to prolong the matter further it said it was 
prepared to agree to my recommendation.
Mr T responded and in summary said:
he disagreed  with my provisional decision and didnt consider that hed been treated 
fairly
everyone hed spoken  to said he should be entitled to keep the full amount 
Clydesdale had paid to him in error
he intended to refer the matter  to his local Member of Parliament
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about what  Mr T has 
said in response  to my provisional decision but Im afraid to say my decision remains as 
before (and as set out above). 
I understand Mr T feels very strongly that he should  be able to keep the money  Clydesdale 
credited to his account in error, but Im unable to agree for the reasons Ive previously given. 
My T isnt entitled to the money as it doesnt  belong to him. And as Ive previously explained 
it wouldnt be appropriate for Mr T to benefit  from Clydesdales error.
I understand that Mr T will remain disappointed  with my decision. But I havent been 
persuaded to change  my position on the matter. That means Im upholding Mr Ts complaint 
to the extent that I require Clydesdale to pay Mr T a total of £300 compensation for trouble 
and upset caused for what  has happened.  To clarify this is a further £100 in addition  to the 
£200 compensation Clydesdale  has already  offered to Mr T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and to the extent that I direct  
Clydesdale Bank  Plc to pay Mr T £300 compensation for trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Chillel Williams  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1302562