K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited. Shes unhappy  
with the problems experienced when her father  made a payment to her ISA. 
The complaint has been brought by her father, Mr P.
background
On 31 August 2018 Mr P attempted to make  a £5,000 debit card payment to Miss Ps 
Hargreaves Lansdown ISA via their online service. He received an error message  on the first 
payment attempt and I understand a second  attempt was declined due to insufficient  funds. 
Mr P contacted his bank  provider who informed him that Hargreaves Lansdown had received 
the funds. But Hargreaves Lansdown wouldnt discuss the matter  with him as they didnt 
hold a record of him having authority on his daughters account.
Mr P complained to Hargreaves Lansdown  as he was unhappy that her account hadnt 
received the money even though his bank provider  had confirmed theyd received it. He 
asked for the £5,000 to be returned  and reimbursement  of £8 for the costs  that hed incurred.
Hargreaves Lansdown replied explaining that as he didnt have authority on the account they 
couldnt discuss the matter with him and they were awaiting  contact from his daughter.  They 
did however credit Mr Ps Hargreaves Lansdown  account with £8 as he requested.
Hargreaves Lansdown sent confirmation to Miss P on 4 September of her ISA subscription 
of 31 August via their online  service. They also sent a further letter  the next day explaining 
that theyd received a telephone call from a third party enquiring  about  her account. And if 
she was aware of the person trying  to assist her with the management of her account, then 
she should arrange for this to be formally documented by providing a written signed letter of 
authority.
Hargreaves Lansdown sent a letter to Mr P on 18 September explaining that they still 
werent in a position to discuss Miss Ps account with him. But they were contacting her 
directly to update  her about her account  as Mr P requested.
A letter of authority along with identity  documents from Miss P was received by Hargreaves 
Lansdown on 27 September.  This was registered on Miss Ps account on 3 October  and 
confirmation was sent to her.
The £5,000 was subsequently  invested on 5 October.
Hargreaves Lansdown wrote to Mr P on 11 October confirming they now had sufficient 
information to liaise with him about his daughters account. They also offered him a further 
£37 for lost interest  on the funds with the hope  of resolving the matter amicably. This was 
accepted and paid to Mr Ps Hargreaves Lansdown  account.
The complaint was brought to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt 
think there was an undue delay in crediting Miss Ps ISA as the payment was handled in line 
with Hargreaves Lansdowns processes.  And although she understood Mr Ps frustration at 
not being able to discuss the matter with Hargreaves  Lansdown, she didnt think their actions 
were unreasonable given  they had no record of him holding authorisation on Miss Ps 
account.
Ref: DRN16345712Mr P disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
Its unclear why Mr P experienced a problem when trying to make the payment in to Miss Ps 
ISA. So I cant be sure what caused the error  message. But irrespective  of that, I dont  think  
the payment was handled inappropriately or that Hargreaves Lansdown caused any undue  
delay when crediting Miss Ps ISA. Ill explain  why.
Hargreaves Lansdown has explained that they use a third party  company to handle card 
payment services. And that they receive  money for debit card payments from this company 
the next working day. In Miss Ps case, the payment was made on a Friday and it was 
received by Hargreaves Lansdown  on the Monday. Im therefore  satisfied that the payment 
was handled in line with Hargreaves Lansdowns  processes  and I dont consider one 
working day is an unreasonable  timeframe for card payments to be processed. 
I understand Mr P has said that payments hes previously made to Hargreaves Lansdown 
accounts have  been available straight  away. While that might be true, Im only considering  
the payment in question here and for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think it was handled 
inappropriately. So although  I appreciate Mr Ps dissatisfaction with the amount of time the 
payment took to reach Miss Ps ISA, I dont think Hargreaves  Lansdown  has acted wrongly.
Ive also considered Mr Ps dissatisfaction  that Hargreaves Lansdown wouldnt discuss the 
matter with him after he contacted them asking for his money  to be returned. Although I 
appreciate Mr Ps concern at the time,  I think  its reasonable  for Hargreaves Lansdown to 
have strict processes  in place to prevent fraudulent activity and thereby protect their clients  
accounts. So Id expect them to satisfy themselves that an individual  has authority on an 
account before discussing  it with them.  And as Hargreaves  Lansdown didnt have a record of 
Mr P holding authority  on Miss Ps account at the time, I think they acted  appropriately by not 
disclosing information to him and by contacting  Miss P directly about the matter.
I understand however that Mr P disputes Hargreaves Lansdown didnt have  a record of him 
holding authority on Miss Ps account.  He says hes had access  to her account and 
controlled it for at least three years. And hes provided a screenshot of Hargreaves 
Lansdowns online service showing that he has access to her account. 
Hargreaves Lansdown has explained though  that they provide an online linked facility for 
clients who wish to link their family members accounts. And this feature allows  clients  to 
save time by being able to switch between accounts  instantly. This feature however isnt the 
same as having authority to deal or act on someone  elses behalf. So although I accept Mr P 
has accessed Miss Ps accounts over the last few years through the online service,  Ive not 
seen anything to show that he held authority to act on her behalf, or that Hargreaves 
Lansdown had a record of this.  
It follows that I dont think Hargreaves Lansdown  acted unreasonably by not disclosing 
information to Mr P about his daughters account at the time. I appreciate it was Mr P that 
made the payment and so he wanted  his money  returned. But the money was sent to 
Ref: DRN16345713Miss Ps account and without Hargreaves Lansdown having confirmation from her that he 
could access her account, I think their actions  were appropriate in the circumstances.
I realise this will come  as a disappointment to Mr and Miss P but for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think Hargreaves Lansdown has acted wrongly. I therefore dont think it 
would be fair to ask them  to pay anything  more than the £45 theyve already sent to Mr P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1634571