K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs M applied for a credit card in 1992.  At the same time, the Leeds Permanent Building 
Society (now  part of Bank of Scotland)  sold her a PPI policy.  The cost of the PPI was 
charged to the account  so shed  pay for the PPI with interest in line with the accounts 
terms and conditions.
Mrs M thinks  the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld.  Mrs M didnt 
agree. So the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Based on what Ive seen,  Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at whether Bank of Scotland explained the policy  was optional. Mrs M 
applied for the card and PPI by post in 1992.  Bank  of Scotland  has provided a copy of the 
application. I see that to apply for PPI Mrs M needed to tick a box labelled  Please tick the 
box to apply for cover.  This box is ticked.
Ive thought about what Mrs M has said about  that. She thinks the tick in this box looks 
different to the other  ticks on the form. Ive looked  at the tick. I note that the copy of the 
application provided by the business  is poor  part of the tick seems to be missing.  But I 
dont think its sufficiently  different from the other  ticks to persuade me this wasnt made by 
Mrs M. And in any case, the PPI appeared on Mrs Ms statements  and so if she hadnt 
wanted it Id have expected her to have  questioned  this before now.
So on balance I think its likely that Mrs M knew she had a choice  about  the PPI  and chose 
to buy it.
As the policy was arranged by post,  I dont  think Bank of Scotland made a personalised 
recommendation that Mrs M buy the policy. So it wasnt responsible for making  sure the 
policy was right for her. But it did have to give Mrs M the information shed need in order to 
work out for herself  if she wanted it. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs M wasnt  good  enough.  But Mrs M 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the main  things  the policy didnt cover  such  
as any medical conditions she already had when she bought the policy. And based  on what 
Mrs R has said about her circumstances the policy looks as though it would have been 
useful if shed needed to claim. Though Mrs M would receive her full salary  for six months if 
Ref: DRN19849902shed been off work sick, this policy would pay 10% of the outstanding balance until the 
balance was repaid in full or she returned  to work  the PPI paid out for longer  than her sick 
pay. And so Im not persuaded  that better information would have made a difference  to her 
decision to buy the policy.
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said. But these points dont change  my decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1984990