K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a secured 
loan in 1995. Mr Z says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Zs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr Z says the PPI was added 
without his knowledge, but he hasnt  given us much detail about what  happened  or what  was 
said at the time. And Halifax hasnt been able to send us any evidence  from the sale which  
shows Mr Z chose  to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has passed  since the sale 
though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Halifax  added  the PPI without Mr Zs knowledge. 
So I think its likely Halifax made  it clear to Mr Z that he had a choice about the PPI, and that 
Mr Z chose  to take it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr Z, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay he received. And it 
wouldve meant he didnt  need to rely on his savings to make his repayments if he wasnt  
earning.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr Z about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr Zs property  couldve been  at risk if hed failed to make his repayments.  So I 
think he couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same 
reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr Z off taking it out.
Ref: DRN10251232my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1025123