K821x#15complaint
Mr A is complaining that Lloyds Bank  PLC:
Gave information to a family member about  an international cheque paid into his 
current account, so breached  data protection.
Delayed processing that cheque, which caused  problems in the family.
Removed information about the cheque from his online banking  and mobile app.
Didnt respond to his contacts when making this complaint,  costing him lots of money 
as he was phoning from abroad.
background
On 14 January 2019 a cheque for around  €20,000 was paid into Mr As account in a branch 
of Lloyds by a family member. The cheque didnt immediately clear  into his account but, 
when it did, it was converted into sterling.  The family member  also paid a Euro  cheque into 
their own account at the same time.
Mr A says he was told by his family member that the money had been credited to his 
account, but he couldnt see it on his online banking or mobile app. Mr A says this caused 
problems in his family,  as he felt he was being told something that wasnt  true. The cheque  
had been returned as the cheque processing form to pay it in was incorrect. The cheque was 
then paid in again. Mr A was also unhappy that it seemed his family member  had been  given 
information about this cheque clearing, and said this was a breach of data protection  rules.
Lloyds responded to this complaint, and said a foreign cheque can take up to eight weeks to 
be credited to an account, and the one in question was ultimately credited to Mr As account  
on 29 January 2019. But Lloyds said the cheque processing form, which  has to be 
completed before the process  to credit Mr As account starts,  was initially  delayed. They 
offered £75 compensation to Mr A for this.
Lloyds also said they didnt breach Mr As data, and only told his family member about the 
cheque processing  times  for international cheques, nothing specifically to do with Mr As 
account or when  his cheque had actually cleared. 
Lloyds added that they understood  hed called several times, but their records show they 
spoke to him and had attempted  to make further calls but couldnt reach him.
Mr A was unhappy with this, and asked us to look into things. Our case handler did so and 
ultimately said:
He didnt think Mr As family  member  had been  given any information in relation to 
Mr As account.
The compensation awarded for the delay in processing the cheque wasnt  enough, 
because of the impact  it had, and he recommended Lloyds increase this from £75 to 
£150.
He couldnt  see the cheque had been  removed from online banking  or the mobile  
app, as both of these methods showed  the cheque transaction.
He felt Lloyds  should refund Mr As phone  costs, but as Mr A couldnt  evidence the 
amount he spent on calls specifically made  to Lloyds, he thought  this should  be 
based on any reasonable evidence Mr A can give. This ended up being calculated at 
$53.68.
Ref: DRN15260442Mr A was unhappy with this outcome,  so his complaint has been passed  to me to issue  a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
information given  to a family member
Mr A is convinced  his family  member  has had access to his account. Hes told us that the 
family member knew the exact time his cheque had cleared.  Mr A told us he believes the 
family member got this information as they know a staff member  at the branch where  the 
cheque was paid in. Mr A has also given us a screen shot of a messaging conversation from 
the family  member, in which  they tell him the cheque has been cleared. He asks how they 
know that, and they explain theyve made a number of calls.
Lloyds have said the staff member  and Mr As family member arent known to each other,  
and that the family member hasnt been told any details about Mr As account at all. Lloyds 
have said the family  member was only given general  information about how long cheques 
take to clear.  They have  however said that the member of staff in the branch told Mr As 
family member that if their cheque had cleared, its likely Mr As cheque had too.  
Ive thought about the message from Mr As family member  and I can see why hed believe 
from that message  Lloyds  have given the family  member information about the cheque. 
I cant know for certain exactly what was discussed  between the family member and the 
members of staff  some of the conversations were in the branch, or on calls that werent  
recorded. So I need to look at the evidence I have. If thats inconclusive, then I need  to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
The message from the family member does suggest theyve been given information about  
Mr As account. But just because thats what the family member said,  doesnt  mean  its 
necessarily true.
As Ive already  said, the family member paid in two cheques during  one visit to the branch  
one to Mr As account and one to their own. The information Ive seen shows  the family 
member was told about their cheque  clearing.  So it seems plausible this was a way for the 
family member to have  had an idea about  when  Mr As cheque mightve cleared. In addition, 
Lloyds send letters out to their customers once  a cheque has cleared.  Our case handler 
explained to Mr A that Lloyds sent this letter on 29 January  2019   and Lloyds said they 
understood Mr As ex-girlfriend lives in that address, and passed this letter to the family 
member in Mr As absence. Mr A hasnt responded to this point   but it doesnt seem an 
entirely unreasonable scenario that this could also be how the family member knew  Mr As 
cheque had cleared.
Ive also not seen enough to make me think that the family member  and member of staff in 
the branch know  each  other. Or that they gave the family member information  they werent 
entitled to.
Ref: DRN15260443Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to say Lloyds did tell Mr As family 
member his cheque  had cleared.
delayed the processing of the cheque
The cheque wasnt processed  as it should  have  been due to an error in completing the form 
thats needed when international cheques are deposited and that caused about a weeks  
delay. But the cheque was still credited to Mr As account within a fortnight of being 
deposited  so quicker than it mightve taken,  given the bank says this can sometimes take 
up to eight weeks. Ive taken that into account along  with Mr As comments  about the 
problems this caused with his family, the calls he had to make and the effect it had on his 
health. And, overall, I think £150  is a fair amount to resolve this aspect of his complaint.
information removed  from Mr As online account  and mobile app
Mr A says that Lloyds  have removed information about the cheque payment from his online 
account and mobile  app.
Ive looked at every screen shot Mr A has sent us, and paid particularly close attention to the 
screen shots where he says theyve removed the cheque transaction.  In each of these 
screen shots the cheque is shown crediting the account, so I cant  say Lloyds have removed  
the cheque from the information available to Mr A.
The money was transferred  out after the cheque cleared, this is also reflected on the 
account statement  and Mr A has said he made  that transfer.
I dont uphold this element  of Mr As complaint.
cost of phone calls
Mr A has said that making repeated calls from abroad where hes currently  living has cost 
him a significant amount of money. Lloyds have said theyd refund this, but require 
appropriate evidence  to do so. I dont think thats  unreasonable or unusual.
Mr A has been in regular  contact with our service  and hasnt given us any evidence that 
Ive been persuaded by which show his costs are significantly higher than the amount our 
case handler recommended  the bank should  pay.
For example, Mr A has provided  two invoices but  as Lloyds pointed  out  theyre  not 
invoices on headed  paper, and theres nothing to show on these invoices  that the costs were  
incurred entirely due to calling  Lloyds.  The total amount Mr A has claimed for is also 
significantly different from the information on the tariff of charges against the amount and 
length of times it appears hes called.
The tariff shows how much it costs, in US Dollars, to phone the UK from where Mr A was at 
the time.  The records weve had from Lloyds showed hed called for a total of 22 minutes  
and 22 seconds  and Ive seen nothing  from Mr A which persuades  me he spent longer than 
this calling Lloyds  specifically. And, using  the tariff of charges of $2.40  per minute, our case 
handler worked out that this wouldve cost $53.68.  Lloyds havent raised an objection  to this 
figure being paid to Mr A to cover  his phone costs. 
Ref: DRN15260444Taking all of that into account,  Im satisfied Lloyds should pay Mr A $53.68 as a refund for 
the cost of telephone calls.
my final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint in part, and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr A:
£150 compensation total (this includes the £75 previously paid)   for the delay in 
processing the international cheque
$53.68 for the cost of phone calls  using the pound sterling exchange rate on the 
day the compensation is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1526044