K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Cavendish Property  Investments Ltd, trading as CGA Protect (CGA)  
didnt tell her about changes  to the policy terms and conditions and these led to a claim 
being declined.
background
Mrs K has been buying home insurance for a second home  through  CGA for a number of 
years. CGA is an insurance intermediary or broker. So it researches and suggests suitable 
policies for Mrs K and sells them, rather than actually providing the insurance cover.
In 2016 the insurer that originally provided  cover changed. CGA told Mrs K it had found 
another insurer and her policy  would be matched term for term by the new insurer. In fact 
there was an additional  requirement  in the new policy  which was that a loft hatch  should  be 
left open if the property  was unoccupied.
The policy was renewed in 2017,  with the same condition included.
When Mrs K made a claim for an escape  of water in 2018 her claim was declined.  The 
insurer said the claim was declined because  amongst  other things  the loft hatch hadnt  
been left open.
Mrs K complained about the decision made by the insurer  and we looked  at that complaint 
for her in early 2019. 
Mrs K then complained to CGA, which said it thought  it had brought Mrs Ks attention  to the 
change in the policy, because it had asked  (in both 2016 and at renewal in 2017) that she 
read the terms and conditions carefully.  It acknowledged it had told her in 2016 that there 
were no changes to the terms  and conditions when it transferred her policy  to a new insurer.
Mrs K was unhappy about this and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator thought CGA hadnt  done  enough  to draw Mrs Ks attention to the changed 
endorsement. But he didnt think that endorsement affected the outcome of the claim, so 
only recommended  some compensation for the way CGA had sold the policy.
CGA accepted the investigators opinion,  but Mrs K says her claim might  well have 
succeeded if shed  known to leave the hatch open,  so CGA should  do more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint, although Im not going to ask CGA to meet the cost of 
Mrs Ks claim. I know this wont  be what Mrs K wants  to hear, so Ill explain why Ive reached 
this decision.
For me to uphold a complaint I need  to know that CGA  made some mistakes  in the way the 
policy was sold. If I think it has, I then go on to look at the effect those mistakes have had on 
Mrs K. The severity of the effect  will influence  what CGA has to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN10646902I agree  with our investigator that CGA  didnt do enough to draw  Mrs Ks attention  to the 
changed condition,  which was that the loft hatch be left open when the property  was 
unoccupied. CGA told Mrs K in 2016  that there were no changes to the terms and conditions 
in her policy when  in fact there were. I think that over-rides CGAs argument that it asked 
Mrs K to read the terms and conditions. The additional requirement isnt highlighted or 
prominent in the new policy  and I dont think CGA  did enough to draw Mrs Ks attention to 
it.
I think CGA  did make errors when it sold this policy, so Ive gone on to consider the effect  
this mistake had. Mrs K says shed have complied with the requirement, and her claim would 
have been successful. I dont doubt that Mrs K would  have  complied with the requirement.  
But the insurer didnt  decline her claim solely because the loft hatch was closed  there  were  
other reasons too. I cant say CGAs failings led to Mrs Ks claim being declined.
So the effect of CGAs mistakes isnt that Mrs K is out of pocket because her claim failed. 
But CGA didnt draw her attention to the new requirement as it should have, so I think  the 
£200 compensation recommended is appropriate.
my final decision
Mt decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Cavendish Property Investments Ltd to 
pay Mrs K £200 compensation for the way it sold this policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020..
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1064690