K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to respond to his questions 
about the benefits he is due from a pension investment in a clear  or timely manner.
background
Mr W took out a pension plan with Aviva  in 1990  by transferring some  benefits from an 
occupational pension scheme.  He received  advice from a financial advisor before 
transferring those benefits. That financial advisor  is no longer trading.
The benefits  that Mr W transferred contained  pension contributions that would be used to 
provide a Guaranteed Minimum Pension  (GMP). Those contributions had been  paid before 
1988 and so meant that the GMP would be subject to certain conditions. The GMP would be 
increased between  1990 and Mr Ws 65th birthday at a rate of 8.5%  per annum. But once the 
GMP entered payment no further increases would be applied  to the pension.
At the time the benefits were transferred it was expected  that they would provide Mr W with 
a pension that would be in excess of the GMP. And Mr W would have been able to choose 
how those additional  benefits were structured,  in terms of payment frequency,  guarantee 
periods, and annual increases. But in reality,  when he approached retirement age, the value  
of Mr Ws pension investments was insufficient  to fund the GMP, let alone any additional 
pension payments. In line with its responsibilities  Aviva made  up the difference  between  the 
pension that could be provided by Mr Ws pension plan, and the value of the GMP. But it did 
so on the basis  of the GMP it was required to provide, and this naturally removed Mr Ws 
ability to change the structure of his pension benefits.
Mr W has previously complained to Aviva about the initial  amount  of GMP that was used as 
the basis of his pension benefits.  When the pension was first set up the amount that was 
quoted was incorrect. I can see that Aviva  responded to that complaint in 2007 and so it 
wouldnt be right to include  that as part of my considerations here.
And, as I noted earlier, Mr W received advice from a financial advisor before transferring his 
pension benefits  to Aviva. That advisor would have been responsible for ensuring that the 
transfer of benefits  was appropriate for Mr Ws circumstances at the time, and in the future, 
and ensuring that he was given enough  information  to form his own opinion on the suitability 
of the changes. So I dont  think  Aviva is responsible for what happened  when Mr W was 
originally sold the pension plan and I wont be considering that matter here either.
When Mr W first complained to Aviva it agreed that some of the information  it had given to 
him had been  incorrect, or could have been explained better. So it offered him £75 for the 
trouble and upset  hed been caused.  Mr W didnt accept that offer and brought  his complaint 
to this Service. But I understand  that offer remains open to Mr W should  he decide to accept 
it in the future.
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our investigators. She didnt think  that the 
way Aviva had dealt with the complaint had been inappropriate. Whilst she agree that Aviva  
had made  an error in one of its letters she thought the offer Aviva had made in recognition of 
the error  had been reasonable. So she didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN16269052Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
As Ive noted above the scope of what it is reasonable  for me to consider in the decision  is 
rather limited.  Here  I am only able to look at the information that Aviva provided to Mr W in 
relation to his pension  benefits as he approached retirement. And even if I considered  some  
of that information  was insufficient or unclear  Id then need to think about whether Mr W 
would have done something  different if better information had been provided.
It seems  to me that, after undertaking some independent research, Mr W accepts that the 
basis on which Aviva  has calculated the GMP that he is due, and the form that those 
benefits will take, is reasonable and in line with its regulatory responsibilities. So it doesnt  
appear that Mr W now thinks he has lost out financially  due to the amount of GMP that Aviva 
has calculated. I appreciate that Mr W feels, with the obvious  benefit of hindsight,  that he 
would have been better off leaving his benefits in the occupational scheme. But that isnt due 
to something Aviva  has done  wrong   Aviva  has simply accepted  a transfer  of those benefits 
and fairly  calculated the pension that they will now provide to Mr W.
I understand why Mr W feels disappointed that he has needed to undertake his own 
research to ensure  that what Aviva was telling  him about his GMP was correct.  He might 
expect a company  such as Aviva to be best placed  to help explain what is a relatively  
technical matter.  But since  the calculations performed by Aviva  were actually accurate  
I would only be thinking here about a relatively modest award for the trouble and upset  Mr W 
was caused by needing to fill in some of the gaps himself.
In making a complaint I would expect any consumer  to experience a degree of 
inconvenience and additional work. They  would need to understand what has happened,  
and then form their own conclusions about  what should have happened. And to do that they 
might need  to undertake an amount of independent research, particularly when the 
complaint involves complex  matters should  as pension provision. So I dont think  the trouble 
and upset that Mr W has experienced here in gathering that background information is 
significantly more than Id expect.
As I said earlier,  Aviva offered Mr W £75 in recognition of the trouble and upset hed been 
caused  although Mr W didnt accept that offer I understand it is still available to him. The 
offer Aviva has made  is of a similar  size to what I would have recommended  here. So I dont 
think Aviva  needs to do anything more. And so I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN16269053my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1626905