K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt with a 
security block  placed  on his account.
background 
Mr S booked flights using his AESEL credit  card.  He then tried to book a hotel but his card 
was declined. Mr S says he contacted AESEL but was told the team that dealt with that 
issue wasnt available and that he would be contacted first thing in the morning. He says he 
wasnt contacted  by AESEL and the hotel price  increased which meant the holiday was no 
longer affordable. Mr S says he contacted AESEL later that evening but the call got 
disconnected and so contacted AESEL again. He says he was told AESEL had no record  of 
the earlier call and wasted  30 minutes  as a result. 
AESEL says its terms and conditions say it may apply fraud measures where  it has security 
concerns and that those terms and conditions say its not liable for any loss in those 
circumstances. It says its specialised  department  wasnt available  when Mr S called but has 
paid £25 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator  upheld  it in part. The adjudicator 
thought AESEL was entitled to take fraud  measures in line with the account terms and 
conditions and wasnt liable in those circumstances for any loss. But the adjudicator thought  
Mr S had been promised  a call back that he didnt receive and so AESEL should pay a 
further £25 for the inconvenience Mr S was caused.
AESEL has agreed to pay the £25.
Mr S doesnt  accept that adjudicators view.  In summary he says that he accepts AESEL is 
entitled to decline  a transaction but it should  have called him back. He says that delay 
resulted in his losses and the lost holiday.  Mr S says the compensation is insulting  and he 
should be awarded at least £200
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that AESEL is entitled in line with the account terms and 
conditions to block a transaction where it has security concerns. Im satisfied  thats what 
happened here but I accept that any security  measures can cause  customers  
inconvenience. I dont  think  it reasonable to have expected AESEL  to have been able to 
have sorted  the problem  out due to the time of day Mr S called it.
The main  part of the complaint concerns the promised call back. I have no doubt Mr S was 
promised a call back and AESELs records confirm that. So I accept that Mr S was caused 
inconvenience in having to call AESEL back later that evening and I also accept that he 
spent some time on that call to AESEL explaining what  had happened  again. In those 
circumstances I agree with the adjudicator that AESEL should  pay compensation but Im 
satisfied that the total offer of £50 fairly reflects the level of that inconvenience and any call 
costs.
Ref: DRN15855132I appreciate that Mr S says that if AESEL had called him back  in the morning then he could 
have booked the hotel and avoided  the increase in the hotel cost. But I cant fairly  hold 
AESEL responsible for that and Ive not seen any evidence of when  the hotel cost increased  
and if for example  it had already increased  by the morning. I would have in any event 
expected Mr S, if he was concerned that the hotel price may increase, to have considered 
calling AESEL himself, and not waiting until later that evening.
I realise Mr S will remain unhappy with my decision and that he regards the compensation 
as insulting. In those circumstances I will leave it to him to decide  if he wishes to accept the 
compensation offer. But I think this brings  an end to what we, in trying to resolve matters 
informally with AESEL,  can do to try and help him. Mr S may wish to consider  other  ways  of 
trying to resolve matters.
my final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited has made a fair and 
reasonable offer of further compensation of £25 making a total of £50. Mr Ss acceptance  of 
that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1585513