K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms B complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc, (trading as Leeds Permanent  Building  
Society, (Leeds)), mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment  protection  insurance, (MPPI), 
policy.
background
Mr W and Ms B took out a joint mortgage  in 1995.  A few months later a joint MPPI policy 
was added to their account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr W and Ms Bs complaint should be upheld.  As 
Mr W and Ms B disagreed  with this the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr W and Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
Mr W and Ms B say that they cant recall Leeds discussing MPPI with them.  And that it was 
added to their account without telling them and without their consent. Because of the time 
that has passed, understandably Leeds  hasnt  been  able to give me any call recordings or 
notes to show that there were any discussions about  the insurance or that Mr W and Ms B 
did agree  to take it. But as the MPPI was added to their account over 20 years ago I dont 
think that it is reasonable to rely on Mr W and Ms Bs recollection  of what took place. And as 
Leeds records show that the policy was added to their account, on balance Im satisfied that 
Mr W and Ms B most likely changed their minds some months after taking out their mortgage  
and decided to take it.
Leeds wasnt able to confirm whether it did or didnt advise Mr W and Ms B to take the MPPI. 
But either way this doesnt  change  my decision because, if it did recommend the MPPI,  it 
needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. And I think 
that it was suitable.  I say this because, knowing  what  I do about their circumstances at the 
time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
Mr W and Ms B were both eligible for the MPPI;
Neither Mr W nor Ms B were  adversely affected by any of the policys main  restrictions 
and limitations  such as those  affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition 
or who was self-employed;
As both Mr W and Ms B were working at the time I find it wasnt unreasonable  that the 
policy was in their joint names
Ref: DRN12457582Mr W and Ms B were entitled  to sick and redundancy pay from their respective 
employers and they say that had some savings.  But the MPPI would have paid out in 
addition to these  funds leaving them available to meet  other expenses  while  one or 
other, or both, of Mr W and Ms B werent working. And, in the case  of their being off work 
because of accident or sickness, the payments would have been  for longer than their 
employment benefits. So I think that the MPPI could have been of use to Mr W and 
Ms B;
The policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar policies available  in the 
market at the time. And I havent  seen anything to suggest  that Mr W and Ms B couldnt  
afford it. In any event, had they later felt that it was unaffordable for them or that they no 
longer wanted  it, because  it was paid for monthly Mr W and Ms B could have cancelled 
the policy at any time without further cost.
I dont know what Leeds told Mr W and Ms B about the insurance. It ought to have  given 
them clear, fair and not-misleading information so that they could make an informed decision  
whether to take it or not. But as Ive found  that it seems that they agreed to take the 
insurance and that it was suitable for their needs,  I dont think  that clearer  information would 
have changed  their minds  and stopped  them taking it. I reach this conclusion  particularly 
taking into account  the possible serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr W and 
Ms B not been able to keep up their mortgage repayments, which were secured on their 
home.
This means  I dont  think that Mr W and Ms B have lost out because  of anything Leeds  may 
have done wrong,  or omitted  to do, during the sale. So theres  nothing  I require it to put right.
As Ive said above,  Ive considered everything  that Mr W and Ms B have told us, including  
that they had other insurance  policies  in place. But these wouldnt have paid out in the same 
circumstances as the MPPI. They have also told us that they had friends and family who 
would have helped  them had they not been  working. But, as we explain on our website, we 
dont usually take this into account  because circumstances change  and such  assistance 
isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found  in Mr W and Ms Bs case  to make me think its 
reasonable to deviate from this approach here.  Further Mr W said that the policy was sold 
under the guise  of other types of insurance.  But the policy sold to Mr W and Ms B was 
MPPI regardless of what it was called. So these and Mr W and Ms Bs other  comments  dont 
change my decision.
Ref: DRN12457583my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1245758