K822xcomplaint
Ms I complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  wont pay part of a claim she made  under
her home insurance for stolen jewellery.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March. In that I said,  in summary, that I 
thought AXA should meet Ms Is claim for jewellery,  as it had acknowledged she owned the 
items. I didnt think the fact that it was difficult to value  the jewellery was a reason for not 
meeting Ms Is claim.
My provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Ms I and AXA have  accepted my provisional  decision. So I see no reason to change 
any of the conclusions I reached in that decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order AXA Insurance UK Plc to
Meet Ms Is claim for the remaining  items of jewellery, using  its own valuation figures, 
subject to any other terms and conditions that might apply from Ms Is policy
Pay Ms I the cost of an independent report - £233
Pay Ms I £300 for the way it handled  her claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16814542Copy of provisional  decision March 2019
complaint
Ms I complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  wont pay part of a claim she made  under
her home insurance for stolen jewellery.
background
This is a brief summary  of whats happened.
Ms Is flat was burgled. She approached AXA to make a claim, and it accepted her claim. It
paid for repairs to her door and for some items  including  items  of jewellery  that had been
stolen. However, it said some of the items of jewellery Ms I said had been stolen were  worth
a lot of money,  and it wanted proof that Ms I owned  them before it would pay out on them.  It
also said it would limit the settlement for the cash that was stolen to the policy limit.
Ms I accepted AXAs decision about  the cash, although she was disappointed.  And after
some time Ms I managed to find photos of either her or her mother  wearing at least some  of
the items  in question. She also got an estimate of the value of the items based  on describing
the pieces to a jeweller who sold similar jewellery.  Before  she did that she asked AXA to
confirm she wasnt wasting her time,  but AXA didnt respond.
AXA later said it wasnt prepared to accept the valuation/estimate as it wasnt  of the actual
items that had been stolen, and it didnt  think Ms I had sufficiently proved her claim.
Ms I complained but AXA didnt change its mind. So Ms I brought her complaint  to us.
Our investigator thought it reasonable that AXA require a higher standard  of proof for higher
value items.  And he also thought it fair that it didnt  want  to pay anything without clearer
evidence of the value(s) of the items.
Ms I remains  unhappy so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Is policy provides cover for £25k of valuables and a £10k limit for each single item. And
it says that once a claims been  made  it may need  to see original purchase  receipts,
invoices, bank or credit card statement, instruction  booklets, photographs,.of your
property.
Theres nothing on the policy  that suggests  different  standards of proof  for different  values.
But I think its reasonable for AXA to see evidence that Ms I owned the items she claimed for
and something that establishes  the value of those items.
ownership
There has been a considerable  amount of correspondence on this claim between  AXA and
Ms I. Im not going to comment on it all. I think the most pertinent  email  in AXAs  claim file is
one from AXAs in house jewellery team to a claims handler that says:
Ref: DRN16814543I have reviewed the photos we have received.
These photos do show similar styles  of jewellery to what has been described however these
photos are not clear  enough to have  an impact on the value of the items.
We are happy that the items have been  owned  from the photos .
A couple of days later AXA sent Ms I its final response on her complaint, saying it required
strict proof  of ownership for higher value items  and that it was still deciding  whether the
photos were sufficient.
Im satisfied that AXA had already accepted that Ms I owned the items she claimed for
before it sent the final response. I accept such information might cross  in the post  so to
speak. But I think the letter  AXA sent Ms I was incorrect.
paying the claim
Once AXA accepted Ms I owned the items,  it should be paying her claim, unless theres
some evidence that  for example  the values might be being inflated. Theres been no
suggestion that this is the case  AXAs experts actually  valued Ms Is items at a slightly
higher amount (before any discounts) than her valuer did. But AXA has said it wont meet  the
claim because  it cant  confirm the value of the items from photos.
I appreciate that its hard to value items in these  circumstances,  but I dont see that this
should stop AXA from reaching agreement  with Ms I on what a fair settlement might be.
However, when we asked it to consider  making an offer, it refused.
I dont think thats  good  enough. AXA has had an opportunity to assess  the value of the
items, even  if its difficult. I can see AXA was content to use its own valuation  as a basis for
settling the rest of the claim, and after all, its AXA that has the expertise  on these matters,
not Ms I. Ms Is also been consistent  in how shes described the items and how she came to
own them.  Overall, I think AXA has enough  information to settle the claim.
The policy Ms I has says AXA can offer Ms I vouchers to replace the items  or she can
choose a cash  settlement   but that the latter wouldnt be for more than the amount it would
pay to replace them. Im currently intending  to order AXA to meet Ms Is claim, based on its
own valuation, and Ill leave the choice of cash or vouchers  to Ms I. Im also intending to
order AXA to pay the cost of the valuation Ms I obtained - £233.
Im also satisfied that AXA has made a number of errors throughout  this claim, including
sending a final response letter that was incorrect. All of this has meant Ms I has been put to
much more trouble  than she should  have been.  Shes told us how unfair  she thinks AXA has
been too. Im going to ask AXA to pay Ms I £300  for this.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint  and order AXA Insurance UK Plc to meet Ms Is claim
for the three  items outstanding, subject to any other  terms  and conditions  that might  be
relevant. Ill ask it to also pay £233 for the valuation Ms I got and £300 for the way its
handled her claim.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1681454