K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  voided his motor  insurance policy when  he didnt 
provide information  it had asked him for.
background
Mr S has insured his car with UKI for several  years, though each  year he takes out a new 
policy online  rather than renewing the existing one.
His most recent  policy was also taken  out online. Shortly after doing  so, Mr S rang UKI and 
asked it to use a different  address to the one hed given in the application as a 
correspondence address. UKI noted that Mr S had done  something  similar in a previous 
policy year.
UKI asked  Mr S for proof that he lived at the address hed declared on the policy. After some 
discussion, Mr S provided proof of residence  in the form of a utility  bill and his driving 
licence.
However, UKI also asked  for proof that Mr S owned the property. It said hed declared that 
he owned a property when he took out the policy  which entitled him to a lower  premium. It 
also asked for proof of the number of cars at the property.
Mr S said he couldnt provide that information. He said he owned the property  with his father 
jointly, but his father   who has mental  health  difficulties   wouldnt let their bank provide 
proof of their joint mortgage. And he said other members of his family werent willing  to give 
him proof of their vehicle ownership  for him to pass on to the DVLA.
UKI voided Mr Ss policy. It said he had made  deliberate misrepresentations about owning 
the property and about the number of cars at the property. It said it wouldnt refund  Mr Ss 
premiums.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. She noted that the question  Mr S was asked 
when he took the policy out asked whether he owned a property. UKI confirmed to her that it 
didnt require an insured to own the property they lived in  they just needed to own a 
property to benefit from the discount.  She checked  the Land Registry  and didnt find that 
Mr S was recorded as owning the property he lived in (or the correspondence address)  but 
he did own other properties.
Our investigator said she didnt think it was fair for UKI to conclude  that Mr S had made a 
deliberate or dishonest  misrepresentation. She said he hadnt co-operated with its requests 
for information to verify what it had been  told. But it hadnt shown that the information hed 
given when he took out the policy was actually wrong. She said the terms entitled it to cancel  
the policy if he didnt  provide evidence  when requested. But in the absence  of evidence of an 
actual misrepresentation,  she didnt think it was fair for the policy to be voided. Instead, she 
said it should be recorded as having been  cancelled, and UKI should make  a proportionate 
refund of the premium Mr S had paid.
Ref: DRN17624392Mr S accepted that. But UKI said it had asked  Mr S for evidence  to support what he had said 
when asked. He hadnt provided  it, so it was entitled  to void the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The power for an insurer to void a policy  comes  from the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  
and Representations) Act. This says, in summary,  that a consumer has a duty not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a contract  of insurance. Where a misrepresentation is 
made, which affects whether the policy would  have been agreed  (or the terms on which  it 
would have been agreed), the insurer has a remedy. Where the misrepresentation is 
deliberate (which UKI says it was) the remedy allows  the insurer to void the policy and not 
return the premiums  unless it would be unfair to retain them.
The issue  in this case is whether there was a misrepresentation at all.
UKI has relied on two points to void the policy  that Mr S didnt provide proof of property 
ownership when  asked, and that he didnt provide proof of the number of cars at the 
property.
Mr S doesnt  own the property he lives in, to which the car is registered and which is the 
basis of the insurance.  But UKI has confirmed to our investigator than in asking the question 
whether he owns a property, its not restricting acceptable answers to the risk address. Mr S 
does in fact  the investigator has confirmed with the Land  Registry  own other properties. 
So the answer he gave to the question he was asked was accurate in the sense that he 
gave an answer that was acceptable to UKI. And the question he was asked wasnt  specific 
about whether  the property he owned was also the property he lived in.
He didnt provide  proof of property ownership  when asked. The Act says that a failure  to 
comply with a request  to confirm information is capable  of being a misrepresentation. But, in 
this case, I dont think it is a misrepresentation  since its now been  established  that what  
Mr S said was in fact, within UKIs criteria, an accurate and acceptable answer.  Mr S ticked  
the box that said he owns a property  and he does. He didnt provide proof  that he owned 
the risk address  when asked (in fact, it seems, he doesnt). But he does own another 
property, and thats good enough to satisfy UKIs criteria.
Mr S didnt provide  proof of the number of cars at the property either. But UKI hasnt shown 
that the answer he gave was inaccurate. Mr S didnt provide the proof UKI requested   and 
Ive said a failure to provide proof is capable of amounting  to a misrepresentation. But Mr S 
has given a plausible explanation as to why he wasnt able to provide proof of ownership of 
all the cars in the household. The other cars belong  to other  members  of his family,  and he 
isnt able to force them to give him copies  of their registration documents  to pass  on to UKI. 
UKI suggests Mr S has made a deliberate or dishonest misrepresentation  and I dont think 
its provided enough evidence to show thats a conclusion it could fairly have reached in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN17624393Taking that into account, then, I dont think UKI has shown that Mr S has made a deliberate 
or dishonest  misrepresentation. And so I dont think it acted fairly in voiding  his policy.
However, it is part of the terms  and conditions that UKI is entitled to ask for confirmation of 
what Mr S said, and the terms say the policy could be cancelled  if its not provided. And Mr S 
didnt in fact provide the evidence UKI asked for. So while I dont think  that failure reaches 
the standard required to show a deliberate misrepresentation, I do think it entitled UKI to 
cancel the policy relying on that term.
I therefore think the fair outcome of this complaint is for UKI to amend its record to show  that 
the policy was cancelled rather than voided.  It should change any entries it has made on 
external databases  to that effect  as well. And it should refund to Mr S the premium he paid, 
proportionate to the time on risk.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct U K 
Insurance Limited to:
Record the termination  of this policy, in its own systems and external databases, as a 
cancellation rather than voidance and amend any records it has previously reported 
to the databases;
Refund to Mr S that part of the premium  for the period from the date of cancellation to 
the end of the policy term, adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from the 
date of cancellation to date of refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If UKI considers that it should deduct  income  tax from the interest element of my award it 
may do so, but should give Mr S the necessary paperwork, if he asks for it, so that he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if hes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN1762439