K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Ms A says The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Ive decided  the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold.
Ms A applied for her credit  card by post.  The application form she signed had a separate 
Card Payment Protection section in which  the PPI policy was strongly recommended. And it 
said: For cover just tick this box  The box on Ms As form is ticked. And I think  she would 
have known the box didnt have to be ticked if she didnt  want  the cover.  
Ms A says she was never told the PPI was optional and wasnt  aware  it had been  added to 
her card account. But from what Ive seen  I think its likely RBS made it clear to Ms A that 
she didnt have to take out the PPI and she actively chose to take it out. But I can 
understand why she cant  remember this now.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Ms A, so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure she got the information she needed to decide if she wanted to 
take it. I think its possible the information  RBS gave Ms A wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been. But from what I know of her circumstances at the time,  I dont think  better information 
would have changed her mind  about  taking the policy. I say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its exclusions 
or limitations.
Ms A says she was eligible for statutory sick pay and redundancy pay. But I still think  she 
would have valued the extra protection the PPI gave her. It would have provided her with 
cover for up to twelve months  if she couldnt  work because  of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. So the cover would have  been  useful for her if she needed to claim.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for her. And as the premiums  were 
paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her requirements.
So I dont  think Ms A has lost out by anything that RBS may have  done  wrong  when it sold 
her this PPI policy. And this means  RBS doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI 
to Ms A.
Ref: DRN18797722But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms A because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms A about that. Because RBS didnt tell Ms A, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about the points Ms A has made, but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Ms A any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1879772