K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr R bought the policy in 1995 at the same  time as taking out a loan. Due to the time that 
has passed, its not clear  how Mr R applied for his loan and PPI policy.  Mr R remembers it 
was a meeting.  But in any event I dont consider its important to the overall outcome of this 
complaint to determine how the sale came about. 
Also due to the time that has passed, not all of the loan details are known. We do know that 
the monthly loan repayment was £142.26 with the PPI costing £24.78. The policy didnt 
attract interest and could be cancelled by either party without  penalty  after giving the 
required notice.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr Rs monthly loan repayment for up to 12 
months in the event  of unemployment and in the event of a successful disability claim until 
the disability was over or the loan was repaid, whichever happened  first. 
At the time,  Mr R was employed  as a supervisor. He has told us he was entitled to around 
three months sick pay but had no other  means  of repaying the loan should he be unable to 
work. Mr R has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale.  
 
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in 1999.
Mr Rs representative made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Rs representative said:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Rs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr R and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN13933782I issued my provisional decision of April 2021 in which I said I was likely to reach a different 
conclusion to that of the adjudicator and not uphold the complaint. I gave both parties the 
right of reply  before I issued my final decision.
Both Nationwide and Mr R, through his representative, said they had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs complaint
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1999. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs case.  
Ref: DRN13933783 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr R know  he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork from the time of the sale including  Mr Rs credit 
agreement. And this isnt surprising  the sale happened many years  ago and the loan 
account has been closed since 1999.  Business  dont  have to keep records indefinitely.  Mr R 
hasnt said much about what happened either  again unsurprising  given  the sale date.
Ref: DRN13933784But Nationwide has provided  an example  loan agreement, which  it says is representative of 
what Mr R would have seen when  he took out his loan  whether this was a sale in a branch 
or following a phone call. And this shows that the cost of PPI was set out separately from the 
main loan amount  and was described as Monthly Premium for Optional Credit  Insurance.  I 
think a customer would  have understood from this that PPI was an optional  and a separate  
product from the loan itself.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that Mr R saw 
something very different when he took out his loan and PPI, I think  its more  likely that Mr R 
knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr R hasnt said either  way. 
Looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Mr R the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice   Ive seen  nothing  to suggest Nationwide  recommended the cover to Mr R 
having considered his individual  needs and circumstances.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr R. Instead,  it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr R to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
I think more likely than not Mr R was given a broad description of what  the policy  was 
intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was unable to work 
through accident, sickness and disability). Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its 
unlikely Mr R would have  taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for.
 
Unlike the adjudicator, I also think, more likely than not that Mr R knew how much the 
premium was going to be. I say this because  Ive seen agreements  like this in the past.  And 
in the absence of persuasive evidence to the contrary I think  its likely Mr Rs loan agreement  
set out the cost in the same way as  or very similar to  the example loan agreement  Mr R 
would have been presented with for signing.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
R agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr R sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Rs. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN13933785-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr R has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr R? To what extent  did Mr R 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr R. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr R 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr R 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr R says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr R had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, I think Mr R chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But he made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr R 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Mr R has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Based on my finding that Mr R likely saw something identical to, or very similar  to the 
example loan agreement Nationwide has provided,  I think the information Mr R was given 
about the cost was clear. But the information  about other aspects  of the policy, such  as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nationwide  made  clear exactly  what Mr R would get back in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Rs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
loan payments) were  significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Ref: DRN13933786Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr R thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr R had sought  
advice or treatment for before the policy started and which recurred  after the policy  
started (subject to certain time limits);  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
his job or any gainful occupation which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr R pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr R from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr R didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr R would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr R had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  given  Mr Rs circumstances, on balance,  I still think  
he would  have been interested in taking out the cover.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr R made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or sickness. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr R would  have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN13933787That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr R would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr R 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr R in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Nationwide  should pay Mr R compensation,  as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  
For the reasons  Ive already set out I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr R 
in a better position  than if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2021.
Ref: DRN13933788Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1393378