K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that the amount  Ageas  Insurance  Limited has offered to settle her car 
insurance claim is too low. She says Ageas valuation of the car is below market value.
background
Mrs Ks car was badly  damaged when it was hit by another vehicle. Mrs K made a claim 
under her policy for the damage.  Ageas decided Mrs Ks car wasnt cost effective to repair  
and declared it a write off.
Ageas told Mrs K the market value of her car was £11,400 and based  its offer to settle the 
claim on this amount. It explained  it had used industry recognised guides to value the 
vehicle, taking into consideration  its mileage  and condition. It said the valuation of the 
vehicle without extras was £10,434  and it had added  £966 to account  for optional extras she 
paid for when the car was new.
Mrs K felt that Ageas valuation was too low. She said the car shed bought to replace the 
one that was damaged cost her £12,000 and this didnt have the optional extras her previous 
car did.
Our investigator didnt  think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld.  He said he had reviewed 
the trade guides  and was satisfied the figure  Ageas had offered was a fair and reasonable 
reflection of the vehicles market value immediately before  the loss. 
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators  opinion. She said she couldnt  find where the 
definition of market  value is described  as being the value  in trade manuals. She had no 
access to trade publications  so she had no idea how accurate the information is or how often 
its updated.
As Mrs K hasnt  agreed with our investigators view, her complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
The relevant  industry  rules say the insurer should  handle claims promptly  and fairly.  Ive 
needed to consider whether Ageas reached  its valuation fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the policys  terms and conditions.
The policys  terms and conditions say that the most  the insurer will pay for loss or damage to 
a vehicle is the market  value of your vehicle  just before the loss or damage  happened. 
And Market Value is defined as the cost of replacing your vehicle in the British  Isles with a 
car of the same make,  model, specification, mileage,  age and condition  of your vehicle just 
before the loss or damage.
Ageas says it used  two industry trade guides  to assess the value of Mrs Ks vehicle. Mrs K 
has concerns about the accuracy  of the information  used.  She says she wasnt  able to find a 
car of a similar specification to the one that was written  off for the amount Ageas offered her. 
Mrs K says her car was top end  shed really looked after it and it had all of the optional  
extras available.
Ref: DRN12652082I think its reasonable for the market value  to be assessed as the retail price  Mrs K would 
have had to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer, just before it was damaged.  
And the fairest way of doing this is by using the standard industry guides. These  are based 
on extensive national  research of likely selling prices. And they can provide valuations based  
on the make, model, age, condition and specification of a car. The figures  might  be lower 
than the advertised  price  of a car, but this is likely  to be because  a dealer would have built in 
a margin for negotiation.
Ive reviewed the evidence Ageas has provided as well as information available to us using  
four industry trade guides. This is taking into account Mrs Ks cars mileage and optional 
extras. Having done so, Im satisfied Ageas assessment of the market value was fair and 
reasonable. 
So I think Ageas  acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms and conditions,  when it used 
the guides to determine  the value of the car.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1265208