K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Prestige Underwriting Services Ltd unfairly took into consideration 
a driving ban after it was spent when  calculating his premium for a car insurance policy.
Reference to Prestige includes their agents.
background
Mr P was banned from driving  for six months  on 27 August 2013, as a result of having  
accumulated 12 points (commonly known  as totting  up). In addition to the ban he also 
received an endorsement.
Mr P took out car insurance  with Prestige in April 2014. He declared his ban.
Mr P complained saying  that as his ban ended,  or was spent, at the end of the six months, 
Prestige shouldnt have  taken it into account when  setting  his premium. He believes his 
premium was higher  because of the ban and wants Prestige to refund him the sums 
overcharged because  they took the ban into account. Prestige said that while the six month 
ban was spent,  the endorsement wasnt, so they were correct in taking account  of it when 
calculating his premium  because the endorsement only gets spent after five years.
Mr P didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. He felt that Prestige dealt with Mr P fairly. As Mr P didnt agree 
with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr P, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ps points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Prestige have dealt with Mr P in a fair 
and reasonable way.
In addition to the ban, Mr P also received an endorsement which applied for five years. So 
while the ban did end (or was spent) after six months, sometime around  27 February 2014, 
the endorsement remained and had to be declared  by Mr P until August 2018. So Prestige 
were entitled  to take it into consideration when setting Mr Ps premium.
The New Guidance on the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (the Guidance),  states under 
What are the rehabilitation periods  for motoring offences?:
An endorsement for a road traffic  offence listed in Schedule 2 to the Road Traffic 
Offenders Act 1988, imposed either  by the court or by means of a fixed penalty  
notice (FPN) is a sentence for the purposes  of the 1974 Act and may become spent 
after 5 years (or two and half years where the offender  is under 18). Road traffic 
legislation specifically provides for a FPN [fixed  penalty notice] in these 
circumstances to be treated as a conviction and dealt  with as such  under the 1974 
Act. Penalty points  and a driving disqualification imposed by the court on conviction  
may become spent  when they cease  to have effect  (penalty points have  effect for 
Ref: DRN13335162three years as set out in road traffic legislation). Where the court imposes  more  than 
one sentence or penalty for the offence then the longest rehabilitation period 
determines when  the conviction may become spent. [My emphasis]
Immediately after the above text, the Guidance gives  the following example:
An adult is convicted of a road traffic  offence,  and the court imposes  a fine 
(rehabilitation period 1 year), an endorsement (rehabilitation period 5 years),  penalty 
points (rehabilitation  period 3 years) and driving disqualification for 1 year 
(rehabilitation period 1 year); the rehabilitation period  for this conviction will be 5 
years because the endorsement  carries the longest  rehabilitation  period.

Once the conviction becomes spent,  the person is not required to declare it when 
applying for most jobs, or (motor) insurance.
So Prestige acted  reasonably when taking  the endorsement into consideration when 
calculating Mr Ps premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1333516