K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC placed blocks on his accounts that caused him 
and his business severe financial  hardship.
Ref: DRN19176462background
Mr D says his Barclays  accounts were blocked in July 2018 without any notice. He says he 
was caused severe  financial  hardship  and stress in not being able to carry on his trade. Mr D 
says his personal accounts and his business accounts were blocked  and was told the blocks  
would be in place  for 10 days but were not lifted until a month later.  He says he was unable 
to withdraw money,  operate his business, pay money into his accounts and says he felt like 
he was treated like a criminal. Mr D says he was forced to take out a high interest loan and 
says his credit file has been negatively affected and his business may be not be able to 
continue.
Barclays says its entitled in line with the accounts  terms  and conditions  to place the blocks 
and doesnt have to provide reasons but in this case says Mr D was aware of the reasons. It 
accepts the accounts review took longer than it should and has offered Mr D a total of £500 
compensation. Barclays says during the review any direct debits would be paid and that Mr 
D could have withdrawn  money.
Mr D says his business  will have to cease trading as a result  of what  took place and says 
Barclays told him during  a call that it had treated him like a criminal. He brought his 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked  into the complaint and thought  the compensation 
offer was appropriate  but accepted the account blocks did have a significant  impact on Mr 
Ds business.
Mr D was unhappy with that view and said the investigator hadnt  considered  the impact on 
his credit file or provided him with the reasons for the account blocks. He provided further 
information about his debts and that he was now on a debt management  plan and that his 
business owed  tax.
The investigator issued  a second  view in which she said that she didnt think Barclays was 
responsible for Mr Ds debts and didnt think the accounts appeared to have much money 
paid into them after the blocks were  removed. She also didnt think Mr D had explained why 
the blocks caused the problems he says were caused.
Mr D asked for an ombudsmans  review of the complaint and I asked both sides for further 
information. In summary I asked Mr D for a copy of his credit file and to explain which 
outgoings he was unable to pay as well as details of the exact loss he says he suffered. I 
explained to Mr D that as the business was a limited company then that company would 
need to bring  a complaint  in its own name.  Mr D also told me he was in financial  difficulties  
before the account blocks but was able to mange his finances  and says he doesnt  see the 
point in his business making  a complaint.
I asked Barclays to tell me if Mr Ds direct debit  payments were  made  whilst the blocks were 
in place and it says all but one was made.  It also says having  looked at Mr Ds credit report 
that his financial  difficulties appear  to be from May 2019 and so dont appear to be linked to 
the blocks.
Mr D would like a significant  level of compensation for whats taken place
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Barclays has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. I realise Mr D will 
Ref: DRN19176463be disappointed  by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats 
happened.
I make  clear to Mr D that I can only consider his complaint and Barclays  actions that relate to 
his personal accounts  and not any complaint his business may have. Im satisfied that Mr 
Ds business is a limited company and a legal  entity in its own right so it follows that I cant 
consider any impact Barclays actions had upon  that company. I appreciate that Mr D says 
he doesnt see the point of dealing  with his complaint in this way. But for the reasons I have 
explained, I find that is the only way in which his complaint can be looked at by us.
There is no real dispute  here that in line with account terms and conditions  Barclays can 
review an account and/or  place an account block. The issue  in this case is that Barclays  took 
significantly longer  than it should  have  to carry out the review on Mr Ds accounts.  Barclays  
accepts that and so has offered Mr D a total of £500 compensation made  up of £100  for poor 
service, £80 for the branch  visits, £300  as an apology and £20 call costs. The key question 
is the level of compensation and if Barclays actions were responsible for Mr Ds financial 
difficulties.
Mr D has told us that the main problems  were caused to his business and his ability  to 
operate that business. I have explained that is not something I can consider. So I have 
looked at Mr Ds credit report and his account  statements to consider what affect  Barclays 
delay in completing its review had on him.
Mr D accepts that he was in financial difficulties before Barclays  actions. I can see that Mr 
Ds direct  debits were made  whilst the blocks were in place except one and that he entered a 
debt management  plan in March 2019.  I can see from Mr Ds credit  file that his financial 
difficulties appeared to get worse in 2019 with missed payments mainly from May 2019  on. 
So I dont  think that Mr Ds financial problems were caused by Barclays delay of what  I think  
was about 16 working  days. Im satisfied those  difficulties were some  six months  after what 
took place and I dont think Mr D has explained which  debts he was unable  to pay as a result 
of the blocks.
I appreciate Mr D took out a loan for £10,000 at the end of August 2018.  Mr D hasnt told us 
if that loan was for his business or for himself but in any event I can see that loan became in 
arrears in May 2019. So I dont think Barclays actions  were  linked to those arrears or that Mr 
D incurred debts of £10,000 as a result of the blocks. I think it more likely  that Mr D needed 
to borrow the money as a result of the position he was already in.
I have listened  to the call between the parties in which Mr D says Barclays accepted  he was 
treated like a criminal. Im satisfied that the Barclays staff member  was simply repeating 
what Mr Ds complaint was rather than accepting what Mr D said. I also think that during the 
call Barclays accepted  the review took too long and explained why it had taken place.  And 
that Mr D explained  the main  impact was on his ability  to pay his contractors  and his ability  
to pay his business tax liability. For the reasons I have explained those are not matters I can 
consider here.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays  has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation for 
what took place.  And I cant  see any link to Mr Ds later financial difficulties and Barclays  
delay in completing its review. I have  no doubt  Mr D spent some time trying  to find out what  
had happened  and in attending a Barclays branch and would have been caused distress  
and inconvenience.  But I think Barclays  offer fairly reflects what took place and I will leave it 
to Mr D to decide if he wishes to accept it. I appreciate  that Mr D says he is now considering 
Ref: DRN19176464alternative action against  Barclays so I accept in those circumstances he is unlikely to 
accept my decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1917646