K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that MYJAR Limited  (Myjar) was irresponsible to lend him money he 
couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Myjar provided five loans to Mr L - heres  a table showing  loan details:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 17/08/2016 16/11/2016 6 £350.00 £110.83
2 16/11/2016 12/05/2017 6 £650.00 £197.32
3 19/06/2017 16/03/2018 12 £900.00 £129.71
4 16/03/2018 14/01/2019 12 £900.00 £130.80
5 15/01/2019 06/02/2019 24 £1,200.00 £90.19
Mr L has repaid all the loans he took out. 
Mr L told us that he was borrowing from different payday lenders  sometimes  just to pay for 
loans hed taken  out with other lenders.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ls complaint. He thought Myjar shouldnt have provided 
loan 4 to Mr L - or any further loans after that. He set out the steps he said Myjar should do 
to put things right.  
Myjar didnt agree with our adjudicators  view.  It mainly said that the checks it carried  out 
were proportionate and it wasnt certain  that our adjudicator had considered everything.  
Myjar asked for a review  so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN13053792the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans   not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Myjar told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr L. It asked Mr L to provide details 
of his income and to tell Myjar what he normally spent  each  month  including  what  he paid 
towards any other credit arrangements he had set up. Myjar carried  out checks on Mr Ls 
credit file. 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks and they dont show anything that I think 
should reasonably have  made Myjar think loans 1, 2 and 3 werent affordable  for Mr L.
The repayments that Mr L had agreed  to make on these loans looked comfortably affordable  
compared to the income that hed declared to Myjar. So given these repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about Mr Ls circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history  with 
the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for Myjar to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
loans 1, 2 and 3. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Ref: DRN13053793Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, like the adjudicator, I think  that this point 
was reached by loan 4. I say this because:
by now, Myjar ought to have realised Mr L was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr L had taken out loan 2 the same  day hed repaid loan 1  and 
borrowed more. There was a short gap of around  5 weeks  or so in between loans 2 
and 3  but when  Mr L took out loan 3 he borrowed a larger  amount  again. And he 
took out the loan over a longer repayment period  possibly  to keep down the cost of 
each monthly repayment. Then he asked for loan 4 the same day he paid loan 3  
and took out a loan for the same amount as the loan hed just paid back 
Myjar ought to have realised it was likely  that Mr L was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances 
hed now been borrowing  from Myjar for around 17 months.  So when Mr L asked for 
loan 4, I think Myjar ought to have known  that he wasnt  likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing (and increasing) need. 
Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. Mr Ls first loan was for £350  and 
loan 4 was for £900  significantly more than hed borrowed when he took out his first 
Myjar loan. 
Mr L wasnt making any inroads  to the amount he owed  Myjar. He had paid large  
amounts of interest to service debt to Myjar over an extended period.
I think that Mr L lost out when Myjar continued to provide  borrowing  from (and including) loan 
4 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time
the length of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to have negative  implications 
on Mr Ls ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loans 4 and 5.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do 
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loans 4 and 5, not including anything  it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr L which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr L the amounts  calculated in "A" and "B".
D.the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So Myjar should  remove all entries about loans 4 and 5 from 
Mr Ls credit  file.
Ref: DRN13053794* HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint about loans 4 and 5. 
MYJAR Limited should put things right for Mr L as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1305379