K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Provident Personal  Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss H had four loans  with Provident, approved in August and November 2016 and February  
and June 2017.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  it be upheld  in part. She didnt 
think Provident had been right to approve the two 2017 loans. She though  the increasing 
number of defaults on Miss Hs credit  history ought to have caused Provident  to realise it 
was unlikely Miss H would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
Provident didnt  respond to the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. Theres been no further  dispute  about the 2016 loans, so Ive not considered 
whether or not they were lent irresponsibly  but theyre  still relevant  to my decision in as far 
as they form part of the history of lending.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As I said above, Provident didnt respond  to the adjudicators view, so I dont know whether 
or not it disagrees  with the adjudicators interpretation of the credit history data it provided.  
Ive looked at the same information  afresh. From what I can see, the information  Provident 
obtained for the third loan (February 2017) identified that Miss H had a recent  default,  
applied two months before the loan was approved. And it further identified that Miss H had 
three total defaults,  an increase of two since she took her first Provident loan. And for the 
fourth loan (June 2017)  a total of nine defaulted  accounts were identified.
I think this information  suggests there had been a significant deterioration in Miss Hs 
finances in close  proximity to the two 2017 loans. And while  I know  Provident operates in a 
sector where adverse  credit histories  are not unusual, I think  the proximity of the defaults  to 
these new loans and the number of defaults  is concerning enough that Provident ought not 
to have provided the 2017 loans. I dont  think  Miss H was likely to have been  a position to 
repay these  loans sustainably, in light of how her other credit commitments were  being 
managed at that time.  I can see this is borne  out by what happened  Miss H was not able to 
maintain payments towards these loans and it appears they are also both now in default.
As I dont think Provident acted fairly  by approving the 2017 loans, Im upholding Miss Hs 
complaint in respect of these loans.
putting things right
I understand the 2017 loans both still have an outstanding balance.  So Provident  should 
remove all interest and charges applied to these loans from the outset and treat any 
payments made as if they were  paid towards the principal. Provident  should also remove  
Ref: DRN17293812any adverse information  it has recorded  about the 2017 loans from Miss Hs credit history  
although it doesnt have to do this until the loans are repaid.
If Provident no longer  owns  the debt, it can buy it back or otherwise work with the debt 
owner to achieve  the above,  ensuring  Miss H doesnt have to repay more than she 
borrowed.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Provident  Personal  Credit Limited must put things right by 
taking the steps  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1729381