K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
April 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Neither Mr W nor 
Sunny have provided me with anything  further in response to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with anything further I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I dont think Sunny should have given loan 5 to Mr W and 
needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr W on 16 October  2016  (loan  5). So for 
that loan Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loan. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I decided that it was reasonable for Sunny to treat the final loan as a separate  borrowing 
event from the first five loans. And as a result I think the checks it needed to do were less 
than if it had formed part of the same  chain of borrowing as the earlier  loans. So for the 
same reasons I dont  think it is reasonable for Sunny to offset the compensation due to Mr W 
for loan 5 against anything that happened in relation to loan 6. So Sunny should ensure that 
it pays the compensation due to Mr W directly to him in accordance with what I have laid out 
above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ws complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Ref: DRN14886252Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14886253EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
Mr W was given six loans by Sunny  between  September 2015 and September  2017.  Each loan was 
scheduled to be repaid  in six monthly instalments. All of his loans have been fully repaid. A summary 
of Mr Ws borrowing from Sunny is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 21/09/2015 16/10/2015 £ 150
2 25/10/2015 11/12/2015 £ 400
3 18/03/2016 22/03/2016 £ 400
4 24/04/2016 22/07/2016 £ 400
5 16/10/2016 06/11/2016 £ 400
6 29/09/2017 19/12/2017 £ 400
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She thought  that the checks Sunny 
had done before agreeing  loans 1 to 4, and loan 6, had been sufficient.  But she thought  that Sunny 
should have done more  checks  before  giving loan 5 to Mr W. And she thought  that better checks 
would have shown Sunny that Mr W couldnt afford that loan. So she asked Sunny to refund the 
interest and any charges that Mr W had paid on loan 5.
Sunny accepted our adjudicators assessment.  But it pointed  out that it had already written off part of 
the balance of Mr Ws final loan. It thought it should be allowed to take this write-off into account  when 
calculating what should be paid to Mr W. Sunny said that what  it had written off was more than the 
compensation due to Mr W. So it didnt think it needed to make any further payment to him. Our 
adjudicator agreed.
But Mr W didnt agree  that Sunny should  be allowed  to offset the compensation due to him. He didnt 
think it was fair that Sunny should look at the two loans together when working  out what  
compensation he should  be paid. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  informally, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks  to see whether Mr W could afford  
to pay back each  loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate to things such  
as the amount Mr W was borrowing, and his lending history, but there was no set list of checks  Sunny 
had to do.
I have carefully considered  Mr Ws complaint. And having done so I have reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator about the proportionality of the checks  that Sunny did. I think  the checks 
that were done before Mr W was given loans  1 to 4 were sufficient. And as those checks  suggested 
that Mr W could afford the loans I dont think Sunny did anything wrong when it agreed to lend to him.
Ref: DRN14886254I also agree with our adjudicator that Sunny should have done more  before it agreed to give the fifth 
loan to Mr W. By then hed been borrowing consistently for more than a year. I think Sunny should  
have been concerned  that Mr W might have been reliant on its lending. I dont think  it was reasonable 
for Sunny  to base its affordability on information provided by Mr W without taking steps to 
independently check what he had declared.
There was a gap of over ten months between Mr W repaying his fifth loan and asking to borrow again. 
I think  it would have been reasonable for Sunny to have seen this gap as an indication that Mr Ws 
finances had moved on from whatever situation had required his previous loans. And so I think the 
checks it did here were  again  proportionate. And as those checks suggested  that Mr W could afford  
the loan I dont think  Sunny  did anything wrong  when it agreed to lend to him.
Although I dont think the checks Sunny did before agreeing loan 5 were sufficient, that in itself 
doesnt mean  that Mr Ws complaint should succeed.  Id also need to be persuaded that what 
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown  Sunny that Mr W couldnt sustainably  afford 
the loan. So Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements, and what  hes told us about his financial situation,  
to see what better checks would have shown Sunny.
I dont have a full picture of Mr Ws finances at the time he was given the fifth loan. He had more  than 
one bank account,  but despite  a number of requests, he has only provided statements  for one of the 
accounts. Those statements dont show any normal household expenditure. They show Mr Ws salary 
being received and paid to another  account  that he says was used  for the household  bills.
But what the statements I have do show is that Mr W was borrowing  regularly from several other short 
term lenders. These were  loans that needed to be repaid  at the same time as the loan he took from 
Sunny. And Mr W was using the proceeds of those  loans  to fund what  appears to be significant  online 
gambling expenditure. I think those factors  alone would  have been enough  to show Sunny that Mr W 
was unlikely to be able to afford to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. So I dont think  Sunny 
should have given loan 5 to Mr W.
putting things  right
I dont think Sunny should  have agreed to lend to Mr W 16 October  2016 (loan 5). So for that loan 
Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loan. 
Add simple  interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts  from the date they were  
paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny  to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Mr W a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
I can see that Sunny says it wrote off some of Mr Ws outstanding balance on loan 6. But I can also 
see that Mr W repaid  that loan well before it was due. I dont know why that interest was written off. 
Mr W thinks it might  have been in response to his complaint, but it appears to have been  done before 
he made his complaint. I think it most  likely  that this wasnt a write-off  for reasons of goodwill, but 
more a reflection  that Mr W owed less interest because hed repaid his loan early.
But actually I dont think the reason for the write-off matters here. I have already decided that it was 
reasonable for Sunny to treat the final loan as a separate borrowing event  from the first five loans. 
And as a result  I think the checks it needed to do were less than if it had formed part of the same 
chain of borrowing as the earlier loans. So for the same reasons I dont think  it is reasonable for 
Sunny to offset the compensation due to Mr W for loan 5 against  anything  that happened in relation to 
loan 6. So I intend to direct  Sunny to ensure  that it pays the compensation  due to Mr W directly  to him 
in accordance  with what I have laid out above.
Ref: DRN1488625