K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Aviva  Insurance Limiteds treatment of Mrs W under their 
private health insurance policy  has been  unfair and unreasonable. They  want compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs W had the benefit  of a private health  insurance policy  with Aviva. They felt that 
Mrs W had been treated no better than if shed used the NHS; for example, a consultant  
seen privately gave incorrect information  to the GP and a copy of a scan  carried  out wasnt  
been given to them. Mr and Mrs W were  also unhappy about  the use of test results from the 
NHS by the private medical  staff and the treatment prices paid by Aviva to the private  
medical providers. Mr and Mrs W said that it was unreasonable that Mrs W had to find her 
own physiotherapist and make  her own decision about which  medication  to take.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Aviva.  It said that it was an insurer,  and simply dealt with the 
costs of private healthcare. Aviva noted  that it was a matter for the healthcare provider what  
and how investigations  or treatments were  carried out (including information sent by a 
consultant), and confirmed that Mrs W could have the authorised  physiotherapy sessions at 
her chosen  clinic. It also commented that there  was no guarantee of faster treatment than 
available through the NHS  and that it was a commercial  decision how much it paid private 
healthcare providers.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Aviva was an insurer, and didnt provide healthcare itself; he said that it wasnt 
responsible for the actions of the medical staff involved in Mrs Ws treatment. Aviva had paid 
for private  healthcare as agreed,  and the investigator pointed  out that clinical services and 
providers werent regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA),  and so were outside 
the complaints  process as set out within the terms and conditions  of the policy. The 
investigator noted that most of the complaints raised  by Mr and Mrs W should  be directed to 
the medical providers  involved, not Aviva, and it was a matter for Avivas commercial  
judgement as to how much it agreed  directly  to pay healthcare providers (and this service  
wouldnt interfere).
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They said that insurers should be responsible for the healthcare 
provided under a policy and wanted  an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most of Mr and Mrs Ws complaints are outside of the policyholder and insurer  relationship. 
Aviva is an insurer and isnt responsible  for the clinical activities  or services  which  it funds 
through the policy;  clinical matters arent  under the regulation of the FCA or within the 
jurisdiction of this service.
Ref: DRN10149052This only leaves a few points to be considered. Avivas health insurance  policy  simply offers 
to pay for the private health services  set out; theres no guarantee in terms of outcome or 
timescale compared to the NHS.  Aviva  makes a commercial judgement  about  how much it 
will pay private healthcare providers, and comes  to an agreement with them accordingly; as 
long as the patient receives the services offered by the policy,  theres  no ground for the 
policyholder to complain  about the payments made by Aviva to the private providers. This 
isnt something with which this service  would interfere.
And theres  no evidence  that Aviva hasnt dealt  with Mrs Ws claims promptly  or fairly.  In 
relation to the complaint  about the medication,  this is a clinical matter so outside  of Avivas 
role (though I note that it was the consultant who asked  the GP to make the decision, neither 
of whom are Avivas  employee). In relation to physiotherapy, again  it was the consultant  who 
asked the GP to arrange this. But the evidence shows that Aviva did discuss  the matter with 
Mrs W, and she suggested a clinic and agreed to contact it to see if it could assist and make  
an appointment. I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable  Aviva was asked if it 
would allow Mrs W to go to a particular  clinic  and it agreed. And having  listened to the call, 
theres no indication  that Mrs W wanted Aviva  to suggest a clinic or was unhappy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1014905