K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 2002. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. Mrs S was covered by the PPI for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties  agree that the sale took place during a meeting  in a branch. And I think  thats  
likely to be the case. Halifax had to make it clear  that the PPI was optional and Mrs S had 
to agree  to take it. Mrs S has said she was made  to feel that the PPI was a requirement  of 
the loan. Where there is a dispute,  Ill base  my decision on what  I think  is most likely to 
have happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the loan application  form which was completed at the time. This form has 
a section titled Protecting your payments with a brief description about  what  PPI is and who 
is eligible for the cover.  Below this theres the option to sign to say Yes or No for PPI. Ive 
noted that Mrs S has signed in the Yes box, which suggests she wanted  the cover.
Ive also been  given a copy of the personal  loan agreement signed by Mrs S. On this form, it 
asks Do you want Personal Loan Repayments  Cover? and again there are two boxes to 
choose from. A printed  cross has been  placed in the Yes box. Mrs S has signed and dated  
the form. While this cross has been pre-printed  on the form, I think its likely  that this would 
have reflected the conversation she had with Halifax and the application form she 
completed. If the PPI was a condition  of the lending,  I wouldnt have expected to see an 
option to decline  to take out the cover.  So, on balance, I think  Halifax  made Mrs S aware the 
policy was optional and she chose to take it, knowing  she could refuse it if she didnt want it 
 even if she doesnt recall that now.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mrs S which means it had to take reasonable steps to 
recommend something  suitable. And, based  on what  I know  about  her circumstances, I think 
it was right for her. I say this because she was eligible for the policy and doesnt  seem to 
have been affected by the main things  the policy didnt cover,  such as unusual  working  
arrangements or a medical condition of which  she was already aware.
Mrs S has told us she would receive  sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work but 
she is unable to recall  how long this would have  been paid for. This policy  would have paid 
Ref: DRN12166312out for up to 60 months if she was off sick, which would have been in addition to and 
potentially for longer than,  any sick pay she received.  And the policy  would have covered her 
for 12 months if she was to lose her job. As this loan was secured against  her home, there  
were potentially serious consequences if she was to default on her payments so I think this 
policy could have been of use to her.
Mrs S has said her husband could have  helped meet the repayments  if she wasnt earning. 
While I appreciate her husband would have  wanted to help, support from others cant 
always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to 
provide such financial  assistance. So this point  doesnt alter my decision.
The monthly cost of the policy was shown  on the credit agreement, which  Mrs S signed.  So I 
think she would have understood how much she needed to pay for it when she took the loan 
out. And the price  of the policy was comparable to others available on the market  at that time. 
Its possible  that some other information  Halifax gave her about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same  reasons  I think the policy was suitable, I dont  think better 
information wouldve  stopped her from buying  it.
So, when taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs S has lost out as a result  of 
anything that Halifax may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1216631