K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Close Brothers Limited  (Close Brothers) were wrong to charge  her a 
title transfer fee on her conditional sale agreement.
background
Miss B took receipt of a used vehicle in November  2016. She financed  the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers  but she thinks they were wrong to charge 
her a title transfer  fee.
Close Brothers explained that this was a term of the contract Miss B entered  into with them. 
But Miss B disagreed.  She said it was usual to have these sorts of fees in hire purchase 
agreements but not in conditional sale agreements and she therefore  referred  her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt  agree with Miss B. She explained that the finance business owned  the 
car until the end of the agreement when  title would need to be exchanged. So she thought it 
was reasonable  to charge  a fee for this and she noticed the fee was explained in the terms 
and conditions of the agreement Miss B signed up to.
But Miss B disagreed  she said a conditional  sale agreement meant she would automatically  
get title to the vehicle at the end of the contract and she also said the companys website 
made no mention  of the transfer fee when explaining conditional  sale agreements. She said 
it was common to have  fees associated with transferring a title at the end of a hire purchase 
agreement, not a conditional sale, and she noted  that the business had referred to her 
payments on her annual  statement as HP instalment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B but I think its reasonable  for Close Brothers to have charged 
a transfer of title fee.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The contract Miss B signed with Close Brothers in 2016 clearly showed the title transfer fee. 
It wasnt hidden in the small print but was shown in the financial breakdown at the front of 
the agreement.
Whilst I agree with Miss B that its common in hire purchase agreements to have an option 
to purchase fee applied at the end, I dont think its unreasonable for Close  Brothers to 
charge a fee on this conditional sale agreement. I say that because, in a similar way to a hire 
purchase agreement,  there is a need, in a conditional sale agreement, to transfer the title 
from the business to the consumer.
Ref: DRN19031842So whilst there may be conditional sale agreements where title transfer fees arent applied;  
this isnt one of them. Close Brothers have  chosen to charge a fee to cover their 
administration costs  and thats for them to decide. Theyve  not hidden  that fee and Miss B 
agreed to pay it when she signed the agreement. So I dont think Close Brothers  have been 
unreasonable and I therefore  dont think it would be fair to ask them to take any further  
action.
Miss B has explained that her statement refers to HP instalments but I dont think  Close 
Brothers have been mistakenly applying hire purchase conditions. I say that because Ive 
seen other  conditional sale agreements from this company that levy a title transfer  fee and 
also because Ive reviewed the agreement Miss B signed and its clear  it was a conditional  
sale.
Miss B has also raised some complaints about  the way the dealership managed  her 
warranty and the repairs made against  that warranty. I see our investigator has explained 
that these should be referred to the Motor Ombudsman if Miss B is not satisfied  with the way 
in which  Close Brothers responds to her complaint. I agree with the investigator  here but for 
clarity I would explain  that, as the warranty wasnt paid for under the finance agreement, its 
not Close Brothers responsibility to handle complaints about it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1903184