K820x#14complaint
In summary  Mr U has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a decreasing life 
cover with critical illness policy.  In particular he says he was told he had to have it as a 
condition of his mortgage.
background
Mr U met with an adviser from HSBC in 2007  when he applied for a mortgage to buy a 
property. His financial circumstances and objectives were recorded  by the adviser  on a 
mortgage protection advice form. This recorded Mr U had inherited a half share  in a property 
which had no mortgage and was being  rented  out. It also recorded that he had a son and 
would like to leave his new property mortgage  free. In the event he was off work ill, he would 
receive 6 months  full pay and 6 months  half pay from his employer. It also recorded  that his 
first protection priority was cover  the mortgage in the event of his death. The second priority 
was protection  in the event of any critical illness. The form was signed by Mr U and the 
adviser.
The mortgage offer document recorded that Mr U didnt have to take out any insurance 
through HSBC.  And the only insurance that was a condition of the mortgage was buildings 
insurance.
HSBC upheld Mr Us complaint in part. It didnt think he should  have  been  advised to take 
out the life cover. But it thought the critical illness recommendation was suitable. 
Mr U didnt agree so he brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into his concerns. She said that as HSBC  had offered Mr U compensation in respect  of the 
life cover sale, she wouldnt look at that part of the complaint. She also explained why she 
didnt think the critical  illness recommendation was unsuitable for Mr U. Mr U didnt agree. 
He explained  why he didnt have a need  for the cover. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Us complaint.  Ill explain why.
HSBC advised  Mr U to take out the policy. So it needed to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that it was suitable for him.
As Ive summarised above Mr U thinks the critical illness policy  was mis-sold because he 
didnt have a need for it. So Ive thought very carefully about Mr Us need for the policy and
the overall suitability  of it for him. And Ive taken into account what hes said, including  his 
response to the investigators assessment.
Insurance of the type recommended to Mr U is designed to protect an individual  for an event 
they hope wont happen. 
I acknowledge Mr U had a half share in a property  that was mortgage free. But it was being  
rented out. And it seems  to me quite possible  that as he didnt own the property outright, he 
might not have been able to access capital from it when he needed it, if he was diagnosed 
with a critical illness. 
Ref: DRN16807302Mr Us mortgage was a significant liability. The policy would  provide  him with the guarantee 
of a cash lump sum to pay off the outstanding  balance of his mortgage in the event he was 
diagnosed with a critical illness covered by the policy. And he would be able to do so without 
having to access  capital from his other property. Any cash  lump sum could  also be used to 
make adaptations to the property if Mr U needed to, rather  than paying off the remaining 
balance of the mortgage.
Mr U has also referred  to the income protection that he had through  his employer.  But I dont 
think this benefit  makes the recommendation of critical illness  cover unsuitable. I say this 
because whilst I accept the income protection would  protect his income for up to a year, the 
policy would provide him with a lump sum to pay off the balance of the mortgage  if he 
continued to be unable to work due to a critical illness.
Also the mortgage  protection advice  form indicates Mr U wanted to protection  in respect of 
the mortgage in the event of him suffering a critical illness.  So given all of this I dont think  it 
was wrong for HSBC  to have recommended the policy even though  Mr U owned half of 
another property  and had income protection for up to a year.  And from everything Ive seen  it 
looks like the premiums  were affordable for Mr U.
Mr U has also said he was told he had to have  the policy  as a condition  of the mortgage. The 
mortgage offer document recorded that Mr U didnt have to take out any insurance through 
HSBC. It says the only insurance that was a condition of the mortgage was buildings  
insurance. I dont doubt that what Mr U has told us is his honest recollection of what  he was 
told. But the sale was over 11 years  ago and memories can fade over time. And taking into 
account the information on the mortgage offer document which  explains that no insurance 
had to be taken  out through HSBC,  together with what  was recorded on the mortgage  
protection advice  form; I dont have enough evidence to decide that Mr U was told he had to 
take the critical illness cover as a condition of the mortgage. 
my final decision
I am aware  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made  an offer to pay Mr U £1,538.38 in relation to 
the life cover element of his complaint. I think such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr R £1,538.38.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1680730