K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies  with a series  of linked loans.
background
In April 2000, Mrs O took out a loan with Nationwide. At the same time, Nationwide sold her 
a PPI policy. She borrowed an additional  amount to pay for the policy, which  was added to 
the loan and attracted interest.  The policy covered the loan repayments if Mrs O lost her job 
or couldnt work because of an accident or sickness. It also gave her life cover.
In June 2000, Mrs O took out a loan with Nationwide which  she used to pay off the first loan 
and borrow some extra money. At the same  time,  Nationwide sold her a PPI policy.  As 
before, she also borrowed  extra to pay for this policy,  so the cost of the insurance was 
added to the loan and attracted interest. The policy provided the same protection  as above. 
In August  2000,  Mr and Mrs O took out a joint loan which they used to pay off the loan Mrs O 
had taken out in June  2000. They also took out PPI to protect their repayments  if Mrs O lost 
her job or couldnt work because of an accident or sickness. 
In October  2000, Mr and Mrs O took out a joint loan,  with PPI for Mr O. They used this 
money to clear the joint loan they had taken out in August 2000  and borrowed some  
additional money. They paid upfront for the PPI as theyd  done previously  so the money 
they borrowed to pay the insurance  premium was added to their loan and attracted interest. 
The policy provided  cover  in the event  that Mr O lost his job unexpectedly and became 
unemployed and/or if he was unable to work  as a result of disability.  
When our adjudicator investigated what  had happened, Nationwide agreed that it had mis-
sold PPI with the loan Mr and Mrs O took out in August 2000. It offered to settle  this part of 
their complaint by paying them back the premiums  they had paid for this, plus interest.  But it 
didnt agree that it had mis-sold  PPI with any of the other loans.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaints about  the PPI sold with the loans 
taken out in April, June  and October 2000. Mr and Mrs O didnt accept our adjudicators 
view.
Mr and Mrs O were mainly concerned that they had other  means they couldve relied on, 
including their sick pay arrangements at work.  So they didnt feel that PPI was something 
they needed.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Its unclear  exactly how these loans  were arranged  but Ive seen some of the paperwork 
that Mr and Mrs O completed to get the loans and the PPI.
Ref: DRN15014812did Nationwide give them a fair choice each time?
April 2000 loan
On the loan application form Mrs O filled in, there were YES  and NO options for PPI. So 
I think Mrs O wouldve  seen that having PPI was optional. The YES box is ticked on 
Mrs Os completed   and  signed application. 
And I can see that the loan agreement Mrs O signed  included  a separate section  headed 
Optional Credit Insurance  and details of the amount of cover she bought  are filled in. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I think that Nationwide did make it clear  that Mrs O could 
choose if she wanted to have PPI  and it was added to her account  when she decided she 
wanted to have it.
June 2000 loan
Neither Nationwide nor Mr and Mrs O can say how this loan and PPI was sold.  But 
Nationwides sales process  at the time always required  the sales  adviser  to explain that the 
policy was optional, and Ive not seen  anything to show  its usual process wasnt followed. 
And Ive seen the application that Mrs O completed and signed. She again selected the 
YES option  on the form to show that she wanted to have PPI. She couldve ticked   the NO 
box instead if PPI wasnt  something she wanted  to have. 
I havent seen  the loan agreement that Mrs O signed. But I think it wouldve been similar to 
the agreement  she had signed a few months  earlier  when shed taken  out her first loan as 
this was the form used  at the time by Nationwide for loans  of this type. 
So, I cant fairly say that Nationwide didnt  make it clear that Mrs O could choose if she 
wanted to have PPI - or that she didnt want it when she signed up for the policy. I find on 
balance that Mrs O agreed to the PPI knowing it was optional with this loan.
October 2000  loan
Nationwides sales process  at the time required the sales adviser to explain that the policy  
was optional. Again, Ive no reason  to think that process wasnt followed on this occasion.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Os signed loan agreement.  This shows  that Mr O was 
insured for disability,  unemployment and life. 
Theres a separate  section headed Optional Credit Insurance and details  of the amount of 
cover Mr and Mrs O took out are filled in.
So I think Mr and Mrs O wouldve  seen all this information when signing the agreement.  And 
the loan paperwork  made it clear  that the PPI wasnt something Mr and Mrs O had to have if 
they didnt want  it. 
Ref: DRN15014813Based on the information Ive seen, I think that Nationwide did make it clear  that 
Mr and Mrs O could choose  if they wanted  to have PPI for Mr O  and that they wanted  this 
cover at the time. 
other possible issues with the sales
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Nationwide recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs O with any of 
their loans. It was up to Mr and Mrs O to decide whether or not to have  PPI. But it still had to 
make sure that Mr and Mrs O had enough information to make a proper  decision about  
whether PPI was right for them each time.
Ive looked at the details  of the policy  that covered all these sales  and thought  carefully 
about what I know of Mr and Mrs Os circumstances  in 2000.
I dont know exactly what was discussed each time when Mr and Mrs O took out the loans 
with PPI. But, even  if there were  problems with the information Nationwide  gave them,  I dont 
think this wouldve made any difference to what happened  I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs O wouldve  still decided to take out the PPI each  time.  
I say this because:  
-Mr and Mrs O were  both eligible  for the policies they each took out.
-Mr and Mrs O werent affected  by any of the main conditions that mightve limited the 
policys benefit to either of them   like being in an unusual  employment situation or 
having an ongoing  medical condition.  They  were both employed  and in good health  
throughout 2000  when these loans were  taken out. So I dont think  that knowing 
more about things the policy didnt  cover wouldve made any difference  to them 
when they were deciding whether to take a policy out. 
-I think it wouldve been apparent  to Mr and Mrs O each time that theyd be paying  
interest on the extra amount borrowed with each  loan to pay for the policy,  and how 
much this would  be, as this information was clearly  set out on the loan agreements.
-The same policy benefits applied to each  loan. PPI couldve paid out in the event of 
accident or sickness for the whole period of the loan that was protected by the policy  
 on top of any sick pay. So looking at what Mr and Mrs O told us about the sick pay 
they were each entitled to, their policies couldve paid out for significantly longer than 
they couldve depended  on their employers to pay them sick pay. PPI couldve 
cleared their loans if they werent  well enough to return  to work for a long time. 
-And it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr or Mrs O lost their job unexpectedly 
and was out of work.  
-I dont know if Mr and Mrs O wouldve always had savings or other means to rely on 
if theyd needed  to make a claim.  And relying on other people to help out in the event 
of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly.  So, when they arranged  loans  in April, 
June and October  2000,  I can understand why Mr and Mrs O mightve  felt the 
policies were useful to have.
Ref: DRN15014814-Mr and Mrs O got proportionate refunds of the PPI cost when these loans were 
settled early.  So, as they were  able to cancel the PPI early  without losing out this 
isnt a reason for me to uphold their complaint.
I can completely understand why Mr and Mrs O mightve forgotten  some  of these details as 
these sales took place a long time ago. 
But looked  at overall, I find that Mr and Mrs O havent  lost out as a result  of anything 
Nationwide may have done wrong  when it sold either of them PPI alongside loans taken  out 
in April, June and October 2000.  
So, as things stand  at the moment, if it hasnt already,  I think for the PPI sold in August 2000 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs O in line with the way this service expects, as it has 
offered to do. 
But once it has done this, I dont plan to ask it to do anything more  to put things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs O havent  commented  further.  
Nationwide has confirmed  it agrees to pay the redress it has offered for the loan taken out in 
August 2000 when  I issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully  into account  everything thats  been  said in response to 
my provisional decision, I still think its fair to issue a decision along  the lines set out and 
explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right
As it has offered to do, Nationwide  should  put Mr and Mrs O in the position theyd be in now 
if they hadnt taken out PPI with their loan in August 2000.
Mr and Mrs O borrowed  extra  to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been. They  paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more  to repay the 
loan than it wouldve  without it. 
So Mr and Mrs O need to get back the extra theyve  paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs O the difference between  what they paid each month  
on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Ref: DRN15014815Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs O the difference between  what it cost to pay off the 
loan and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs O paid from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs O made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I direct  Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mr and Mrs O as set out above but make no 
further directions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1501481