K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (Legal and 
General) declined  to pay his claim under his employers group critical illness  policy.  
background
Mr C joined  his employers critical illness group policy on 1 January 2017. As is often the 
case for group schemes, Mr C was not required  to answer medical questions before  cover 
started. The policy provided cover for eligible  employees who suffered a specified illness.
Mr C visited his GP on 5 January 2017 after discovering a lump on his neck three weeks  
earlier. He was, unfortunately, diagnosed  with classic Hodgkins Lymphoma in February  
2017. Mr C made a claim under the policy  but this was turned down. Mr C complained to 
Legal and General. 
Legal and General responded and said by the time cover started on 1 January 2017 Mr C 
had already experienced a symptom  in December 2016, namely the lump on his neck. And 
this was later diagnosed  as the condition Mr C was claiming  for. For this reason the claim 
was declined under  the pre-existing condition exclusion. Legal  and General said the relevant 
clause in the policy states that: "as long as a later diagnosis confirms  this, we'll consider an 
insured person to have... suffered an insured condition... before they joined  the scheme, 
whether or not the insured  condition  had been  formally diagnosed or not. 
Legal and General also said the pre-existing clause that exists on group critical illness  cover 
is set up because there is no medical underwriting at the point of joining the policy. 
Mr C complained to this service and said his claim was unfairly turned down. He said he 
applied to join the scheme in November 2016  and cover  started  in January 2017 and he 
didnt know at either point in time that he would soon be diagnosed  with cancer. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said that although Mr Cs condition 
wasnt diagnosed  until after the policy  started, the terms of the policy state  that a condition  
would be excluded regardless of whether  it was formally diagnosed at the time the policy 
started, as long as the later diagnosis confirms it. Our investigator said that group critical 
illness policies work in a slightly different way to individual critical illness policies, in that they 
aren't always underwritten  at the point of application. So insurers reserve the right to exclude 
any conditions that may have developed,  or started developing, before the cover started. 
Our investigator also looked at whether Mr C would  have been covered if the policy was 
underwritten, as Mr C thought this might  be the case. But she said even if it was 
underwritten at the point of application,  which was in November 2016, Legal and General 
would have asked  Mr C if he had any lumps or growths of any kind. And while  the answer in 
November 2016  wouldve  been "no", Mr C would have had a duty to disclose any health 
changes up until the start date of the cover. And as Mr C first found  a lump in December 
2016, he would have had to disclose  this. So Legal and General would have been entitled to 
apply an exclusion to the policy.
Mr C was unhappy with the outcome and so this has come to me to review.  
Ref: DRN10215852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Mr C has a diagnosis of classic Hodgkins Lymphoma that meets the policy  definition.  So the 
pre-existing condition exclusion has been  relied on by Legal and General to turn down 
Mr Cs claim.  
I will start by explaining  that the nature of employer group insurance schemes is such  that 
employees are often not asked to answer any medical questions  or declare any medical  
conditions prior to joining the scheme.  This is because it wouldnt be practical  for an insurer 
to assess the risk of insuring each employee at the point they join the scheme.  This can 
benefit the employee in that it can often  make the policy  cheaper  to run and so cheaper  for 
the employee to join. But it also means  that policy terms, such as the exclusion  being relied 
on in Mr Cs case, are often used.
The purpose of this type of exclusion is to ensure claims are made only for medical 
conditions that didnt exist at the point in time that cover under the policy  started. 
What I am looking at is whether Legal  and General  was acting fairly when it turned down Mr 
Cs claim on the basis that, at the time he joined the scheme, he was experiencing a 
symptom of the condition he was later diagnosed  with. 
I first of all looked at the policy  terms to check whether Legal and General made it clear 
enough, in terms  of how it worded the relevant term, that pre-existing conditions whether 
diagnosed or not, wouldn't be covered under the group scheme. And I'm satisfied that the 
condition is clearly worded. 
I then looked at whether Legal and General  was acting fairly when it used the exclusion 
clause to decline Mr Cs claim. When Mr C visited his GP in early January 2017, he 
disclosed that the lump  on his neck  had been  there for around  three weeks. So the lump was 
there prior to the policy start date and Mr Cs medical records indicate  that this lump is 
directly related to Hodgkin's Lymphoma.  What  this means is that Mr C had symptoms of a 
pre-existing condition prior to the start date of the policy. So I'm satisfied that Legal and 
General were acting  fairly when they said that the pre-existing conditions  exclusion should 
be applied. 
Mr C feels quite strongly that its likely he would have been accepted for critical illness cover  
if the policy had been underwritten prior to him joining. But Mr C opted to join his employers 
scheme and so it is the terms  and conditions of his employers  scheme  that he has agreed to 
accept. So I am not going to look at what might  have happened if Mr C had taken out a 
different type of policy.  
It seems  that Mr C joined his employer's scheme in good faith.  He said he couldnt have 
foreseen that what seemed like an innocuous lump could lead to a serious medical 
condition. I can understand that it must  be very frustrating for Mr C to have  his claim turned 
down. But what Mr C did or didn't know about his condition doesn't  have a bearing on why 
his claim was turned down. It was turned down because Legal  and General could see from 
his medical records that he experienced a symptom of his current  medical condition prior to 
Ref: DRN10215853joining the scheme and its terms and conditions  allow it to turn down claims where this 
occurs. 
So although  I have  a great  deal of sympathy for Mr Cs situation, I could only ask Legal and 
General to pay the claim if I thought  it had acted unfairly. And, for the reasons I've outlined 
above, I don't think it has on this occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1021585