K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains the vehicle he acquired through finance supplied by Close Brothers Limited  
trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  
the vehicle.
background 
Mr G tells us in July 2018  he acquired a motor bike from a dealer who Ill refer to as S, a 
company, through a conditional  sale agreement.  He says the vehicle displayed  faults  almost  
immediately and the engine cut-out. He says the fault was repaired  by the dealer - 
apparently a loose  wire was to blame.  But since then he says the same problem keeps 
happening and hes sent a video  to prove  this. He wants to reject  the vehicle and end the 
agreement.
CBMF told us the evidence it had seen didnt show that the exact same  fault which had been 
repaired had failed.  It said it required a diagnostic report confirming what faults were causing 
the vehicle to cut out or give an engine  management  light. It didnt think the video supplied 
was sufficient to show  this.
The investigator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She said Mr G had reported 
faults to the vehicle in August 2018  and the vehicle had been repaired. Subsequently  in 
October hed reported the same fault.  And hed later supplied time dated video footage of the 
engine management  light coming on and the engine cutting out. She said, on balance,  she 
thought this meant the original fault had not been repaired. She found there had been a 
failed repair  and Mr G should be allowed  to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
CBMF didnt  accept this. It said it before it would support  a rejection it would require a 
diagnostic report to show the fault was the same  as the previous repair.  As its not been  
possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Mr G has experienced such problems with this vehicle. I can understand his 
concern as clearly  if a vehicle is unreliable its the cause of both uncertainty and 
inconvenience.
Where evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I am required 
to make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. 
Under current legislation,  as the supplier  of both the vehicle  and finance  under the 
conditional sale agreement CBMF is responsible for the vehicle being of satisfactory  quality 
at the point of supply.  And whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And 
so if I thought the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied Id expect CBMF to 
do something about it.
Ref: DRN18459172Mr G acquired  this vehicle on 18 July 2018. Ive seen a record from S that Mr G reported  a 
fault on 24 July. But no fault was identified  during  an examination of the vehicle and the 
engine did not cut out. In early August Mr G again  complained - to CBMF - and said he 
wanted to reject the vehicle. He was advised  by CBMF that it required evidence of the faults. 
But Mr G said he couldnt afford the cost of inspection at the time.
Later in August Mr G returned with the vehicle to S. And this time a fault was identified  as 
the engine cut-out  during a road test. A loose wire was diagnosed as the cause of the issue  
and was re-soldered. I can see on 5 September Mr G confirmed to CBMF that the vehicle 
was running ok. Sadly, within  a couple of weeks Mr G was again reporting the same 
problem. And in early  October the complaint  was brought to this service.
I can see there were various discussions between  the investigator and CBMF about whether 
a diagnostic report was required  and if so who would arrange  it. In the event, the investigator  
decided she could reach a decision without the need for a diagnostic  report.
I note CBMF  has expressed the view that if this matter was to go to court Mr G would  have 
to provide evidence  of a failed repair before being  allowed  to reject the vehicle. And it said 
the video does not do this. This service  is not a court  - but an informal  resolution service.
And I dont  apply the law - directly - although I do take it into account. Im required to make  a 
decision based on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable determination of a complaint.
And when  it comes to the question of whether a piece of evidence  is - or is not - relevant  to 
the question of what is fair and reasonable  that is a matter for me to decide. Whilst each 
party is entitled to an opinion it is not for either party  to determine whether evidence provided  
in one form is more  persuasive than evidence provided in a different manner.
In many cases an independent vehicle inspection  would  be necessary - but that is not 
invariably the case. And in the circumstances of this complaint I dont think I need  one in 
order to arrive at the outcome  which I feel is correct.
Mr G reported a fault with the engine cutting out within a few days of acquiring  the vehicle.
One inspection  failed to replicate the fault but a second inspection  soon afterwards was able 
to identify a loose wire as the cause. This suggests the nature of the fault was intermittent.
And shortly after the repair Mr G again  reported the engine was still cutting  out and the 
engine management  light was displayed. He was then able to provide video evidence  of this 
in early December 2018.  So three months after the initial repair  the same issues  - engine 
cutting out and engine management  light displayed were still occurring.
Although Mr G initially asked to reject the vehicle - and I believe at the time he should  have 
been able to do so - he eventually agreed  to have repairs done. But the evidence shows the 
same outward faults are still visible. Whilst Im not able to say the same cause is responsible 
I dont think I need  to.
The basic  issue Mr G reported was that the engine  kept cutting out. I dont think  it was likely 
to matter to him what the cause of that problem was - he just wanted  it sorting  out.
Ref: DRN18459173S diagnosed  what it said was the fault and repaired the loose wire. But Mr G kept being 
faced with the same issue. Its therefore probable that either S didnt identify all the causes 
(there may be more than one) or it didnt  properly repair the fault it did identify. Either  way, 
the strong probability  is that the issue or issues which caused the engine to keep cutting  out 
are the same now as they were when Mr G originally reported the problem. Ive seen a 
recent photo image of the vehicles odometer - which shows  the mileage  as 7,216. This 
shows the vehicle  has only done  just over 1,000  miles since being acquired by Mr G - which 
is below  average  in that time period. And for a fault to arise so quickly  - and after such low 
mileage - also tends to show it was probable the fault was present at the point of supply.
Relevant law here is the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015. This says where  a fault arises  within  
the six months following supply its presumed  the fault is present at the point of supply  - 
unless its proved otherwise. Theres obviously a fault - an engine shouldnt  keep cutting out. 
And its repeatedly  occurred both in the first six months after supply and following an attempt  
at repair. As CBMF has not shown the fault was not present at the point of supply I can 
properly infer it was present at that time. And as theres been a failed attempt at repair  I think 
Mr G should be entitled to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Im therefore  upholding the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Im ordering  Close Brothers Limited trading as Close  Brothers  Motor  Finance to take the 
following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr G to pay from the date of settlement*.
2.Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr G.
3.Refund the deposit of £100.
4.Refund three monthly payments  to reflect impaired  use.
5.Arrange for details  of the arrangement  to be removed  from Mr Gs credit  file.
In respect of items 3 and 4 above  simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year should be added  
from date of payment  to date of settlement. 
* Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance may deduct  any payments 
or charges owing at the date of settlement from the final figure due under items  3 and 4 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1845917