K822xComplaint
Mrs W is unhappy with what Carcashpoint Limited (Carcashpoint) has offered to do to put 
things right as a result of irresponsibly  providing her with a logbook loan.
Background
Mrs W complained  about two logbook loans that Carcashpoint provided to her in August 
2015 and August 2018. She said Carcashpoint  didnt carry out proper affordability checks 
and this led to her being given a loan she shouldnt have been. One of our adjudicators 
looked at the complaint. She thought  that Carcashpoint hadnt treated Mrs W unfairly  when it 
provided the first loan.  But she also thought  that reasonable  and proportionate  checks  would 
have shown Carcashpoint  that it shouldnt have provided Mrs W with her second loan. 
Carcashpoint agreed with our adjudicators assessment. In order  to put things right, it said it 
would remove all the interest and charges applied to Mrs Ws loan from the outstanding 
balance and limit what she owed to the amount she was initially  lent. And even though this 
still left an outstanding amount  as the payments Mrs W paid werent enough to repay  the 
amount she owed  it also agreed  to write this off. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this. Her car was clamped and then impounded by the Driver 
Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA). She says she was unable to tax and MOT  her car 
because of Carcashpoints  actions. A third party that was holding  her vehicle is now asking 
her to pay storage  charges which she says Carcashpoint  should  cover as it had the V5 
document (log book)  for her car and this prevented her from collecting and then taxing her 
vehicle.   
As the parties couldnt  agree on how Carcashpoint should put things right,  the case  was 
referred to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I think what  Carcashpoint has agreed to 
do is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances  of Mrs Ws case. Id like to explain 
why I think this.
Both Mrs W and Carcashpoint  are in agreement about which  loans should and shouldnt  
have been provided to Mrs W. So, while I note Mrs Ws comments  about why Carcashpoints 
decision to provide loan two was especially irresponsible, I dont need  to look at 
Carcashpoints decision  to provide loan two. I simply need  decide whether what  it has 
offered to do to put things right for Mrs W is fair and reasonable.  
At this point it might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it 
did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they 
would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put 
a consumer in the position  theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the loan they shouldnt  
have. 
Ref: DRN12266692But Mrs W was given loan two and she used the funds. So its simply not possible  to put   
Mrs W in the position  she would be in if she hadnt  been given this loan in the first place. And 
we have to look at what else we can do to put things right in a way thats fair to all parties. In 
reality its the (increasing) interest  and charges on these loans, on the complaints that are 
upheld, thats  the main  consequence of the business giving a consumer a loan it shouldnt  
have. 
So where a business gave a consumer a loan that it shouldnt have, wed expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that 
loan. This means  wed normally expect  a lender to refund the interest and charges added to 
any loan that shouldnt have been  given. And if those interest and charges were paid also 
add 8% simple interest per year. The lender  will normally also remove  adverse information  
recorded on the consumers credit file as a result  of the interest and charges on those loans. 
In this case, the total payments Mrs W made  to loan two is less than the £2,060.00  
Carcashpoint lent to her in the first place. So Mrs W didnt pay any interest and charges and 
as Carcashpoint is writing  off the outstanding balance its actually going to end up getting 
back less than the amount it lent Mrs W. Equally Carcashpoint has agreed to remove all 
negative information  relating to loan two from Mrs Ws credit file. So what Carcashpoint  has 
agreed to do, in this case, is more  than what wed normally  tell a lender to do where we 
uphold a complaint.  
Ive given a lot of thought to what Mrs Ws told us. The first thing to say is that we look at 
each case individually  and on its own particular  merits. So while we have a general  
approach to how we how we might  tell a lender to put things right if it has given a loan its 
shouldnt have (such  as here), we can tell it to do something different and/or something more  
if theres a strong reason  to say thats  what would  be fair and reasonable to do in the 
circumstances of that individual case. 
Mrs W says I should tell Carcashpoint to do something more here. She says Carcashpoint 
should pay her compensation because she was unable to act when  her car was impounded 
by the DVLA as it had her logbook shes said that this has caused  her to lose her car when 
shes reliant on it to get to hospital  appointments. 
I can ask a business to compensate for any additional (or consequential) losses that a 
consumer mightve suffered, or if theyve  been inconvenienced. But only usually where  
theres a clear and direct  link between  what the business did wrong and any additional 
losses suffered and/or  what the business has done to put things right doesnt  reflect  how 
much the consumer has been  inconvenienced.  
Ive carefully thought  about Mrs Ws arguments.  But Im sorry to inform  her that I dont  think 
that theres a strong enough  argument  for me to say that Carcashpoint  providing her loan 
two directly, either wholly, or even in a significant way, caused  the losses  that Mrs W wants  
Carcashpoint to compensate her for.
I say this because  Mrs Ws vehicle was impounded because it wasnt taxed  and didnt have 
a valid MOT certificate. So Im satisfied that any losses Mrs W sustained  in relation to the 
impounding of the vehicle were predominately as a result of these  actions, rather  than 
Carcashpoints decision  to provide the second logbook  loan in the first place. 
In reaching this conclusion I have considered that Mrs W has told us that she wasnt  able to 
afford to make  the necessary repairs to her vehicle in order  to obtain a new MOT  certificate. 
Ref: DRN12266693And while Mrs W has said making her Carcashpoint loan payments detrimentally affected 
her finances  such that she didnt  have the funds to repair her vehicle, I cant  ignore that the 
outstanding balance write off Carcashpoint has agreed to, means that overall she received  
more than she paid back. In these  circumstances, I cant reasonably conclude that the 
provision of loan two affected  Mrs Ws finances in such a way that she was prevented from 
being able to afford repairing her car.
Finally, while  there may or may not have been a delay in returning the logbook to Mrs W, I 
make no finding on this matter in this decision,  what Mrs W has said about her ability  to tax 
her vehicle and obtain  a valid MOT certificate,  means that in any event, I dont think Mrs W 
obtaining the logbook earlier will have  materially changed the position.  
I appreciate that Mrs W is in a difficult financial position. And I understand that losing her 
vehicle will have made things even more difficult for Mrs W. I also do sympathise with her 
position. But its only fair for me to make an award, of the sort she is seeking, against a 
lender in circumstances  where its actions are clearly  responsible  for the loss. 
And, in this case,  while Carcashpoints  loan was secured on Mrs Ws car, this security 
played no part in Mrs Ws car being  impounded. I think that this was predominantly down to 
a number of unrelated issues.  If Mrs W believes that her circumstances mean that her car 
was unfairly impounded then that is a matter she needs to take up with the DVLA  and/or the 
party instructed to recover the vehicle.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about what Mrs Ws said, while I acknowledge that 
Carcashpoint did unfairly  provide Mrs W with a second logbook  loan,  I think what it has 
already agreed  to do fairly and reasonably compensates  Mrs W. So I dont think  
Carcashpoint needs  to do anything more in order to put things  right for Mrs W. 
my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think what Carcashpoint Limited  has agreed to do is a fair 
way to put things  right in this case. So Im not asking  it to do anything more,  or anything 
different.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1226669