K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  that started in 
2003. Mr and Mrs M say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application form asked whether PPI was wanted. And had boxes  
to tick to say either yes or no to the cover.  On Mr and Mrs Ms form the yes box is ticked  
and I think they wouldve  known they couldve ticked no if they didnt want  the cover.  With 
this in mind,  I think its likely NatWest made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take the 
PPI and they chose  to take it  but I can understand why they might not remember  this now.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check the PPI was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs M got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take the cover  - so it looks  to me like they wanted 
this type of cover. They took cover  on only Mr M at first. And from what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover  so it wouldve been  useful for Mr and Mrs M if something  went  wrong. It also looks 
like the cover was affordable.
For a successful sickness or unemployment claim the cover  would pay out for up to twelve 
months  and on top of Mr Ms work benefits.  The cover helped  protect  a mortgage  a 
significant long term liability  secured  on Mr and Mrs Ms home. By helping  with mortgage 
costs, the benefit  would give greater  security and help protect  Mr and Mrs Ms savings at 
what could be a difficult time if Mr M suffered unemployment or was too sick to work.
Mr and Mrs M have  said their parents  couldve helped pay their mortgage instead.  But other 
peoples circumstances  and ability to help can change. Taking everything into account, and 
with all Ive already said above in mind, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr and Mrs M off taking it.
Cover on Mrs M was added later. NatWest has offered a refund for this. I think that was fair 
and reasonable.  So I dont need  to consider Mrs Ms cover  further here.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.
NatWest has told us the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of what  they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission  was less than half 
the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think NatWest needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN10826582my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back  
everything Mr and Mrs M paid for it. But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay 
the compensation it offered for the cover Mr and Mrs M took out on Mrs M. I understand 
National Westminster Bank Plc has already done this, so I dont award  any further 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1082658