K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
store card. Ms V says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
Ms V took out the store card in a shop,  and was later sold PPI over the phone   but FICL 
has taken responsibility  for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL  in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Vs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms V says that she didnt consent to the PPI policy,  and that it was added without her 
knowledge. But I think FICL most likely  made it clear that she didnt have  to take out PPI, 
and that she chose to do so. Although  I can understand  if she cant  remember as it was 
so long ago. FICL has provided a copy of Ms Vs store  card application  and I can see 
that Ms V didnt take out PPI at this time - it was added to her account a few years later 
during a phone  call. FICL has provided a call script that was in use at the time which 
shows that its representative would be prompted  to point out that the PPI was optional, 
and gain proper  consent for it to be added to an account. While I cant be certain  how 
closely this script  was followed,  I havent seen anything to suggest FICL did anything 
differently when it sold PPI to Ms V. And as she already had her store card for a while, I 
think she wouldve known that she didnt have to have  PPI, and chose to take it out. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms V so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms V got the information she needed to decide  if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms V about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms V has said, including what shes said about  getting good 
sick pay from her employer. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of, and for longer than 
Ms V says she was entitled to full pay for. So this point doesnt change my decision, and for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN13592562my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1359256