K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint against Barclays  Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard), is 
that its holding  him responsible for disputed transactions on his account.
background
Mr M held a credit card account with Barclaycard. Between late May and June 2018, the 
card was used to make a number of payments  totalling £4,668.49. These  were  all made by 
chip and PIN. 
Mr M says these  werent made by, or authorised, by him. He says the last time he used the 
card was 15 May 2018, and that he then paid off the balance and stopped using  his account 
on 18 May. He distinctly remembers asking his mother to cut the card up in front of him that 
day. He thinks  his card must have been  cloned. 
Barclaycard believed Mr M was responsible for any outstanding balance. On the evidence  it 
had, it didnt believe this was anyone else. The genuine card was used  on each occasion, 
and Mr M hadnt reported it as stolen, and that there  was no point of compromise  for his PIN, 
which he said nobody else knew or had access to. It was also concerned  about  his credibility 
and the inconsistencies in his testimony.
Mr M complained to Barclaycard, but it wouldnt  uphold it, so he brought it to our service.
Our Investigator  considered all the evidence carefully, and concluded that Mr M must have 
been involved in the spending. And that Barclaycard hadnt done anything  wrong.  So he 
couldnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr M disagreed, and made some further  points, which our Investigator addressed.  As no 
agreement could be reached,  the complaints now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. The evidence doesnt  allow me to do so, and my role is to reach  an outcome  
based on the evidence  and which is fair to both  parties. 
I appreciate Mr M will be very unhappy  with my decision, so Id like to explain why I think its 
the only fair conclusion  I can reach. 
In his view, our Investigator correctly explained that a consumer should only be responsible 
for transactions made from their account that theyve  authorised  themselves. And generally 
speaking, a bank  would  be required to refund any unauthorised payments  per the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). 
So Ive looked  at all the evidence to see if Im satisfied with Mr Ms testimony that he didnt 
authorise the payments Barclaycards holding him responsible for. 
Mr M says that he only ever had one card for the account, and never ordered a replacement  
card.
Ref: DRN15729272However, Barclaycards evidence doesnt  support this version  of events. 
It can prove that Mr M called  on 12 May 2018  to order a new card, as his existing card was 
damaged  contrary to what  hes told us. And it was this new card that was used for the 
future spending on the account.
It can also show that on 18 May a number  of credits were made  to Mr Ms account,  which  
were then used for the subsequent spending, but as he wasnt entitled to receive  all of these 
some were  eventually sent back.  Thus resulting in the current outstanding debt on the 
account. 
Barclaycards also been able to show us the following:-
- On 15 July Mr M called to report the disputed transactions (saying hed seen them on his 
paper statement  which cant be the case,  as his account was paperless).
- On 13 August he called to say hed lost his card, which had been  in his wallet  while he was 
at work. (when his clear testimony  to us has been that his mother cut up his card in front of 
him on 18 May)
Mr Ms adamant that he didnt make these  transactions, and explains the reason his storys 
been inconsistent  is because when hes spoken to us hes been at work and hasnt had his 
paperwork in front of him. 
Ive thought about this, and Im not persuaded. Not only did Mr M never mention the need  for 
paperwork in any of his calls with us, any lack of it might explain some  moderate 
discrepancies in his story. However,  it wouldnt  explain  major contradictions - such as 
whether the card was cut up on 18 May, or whether he realised it wasnt  in his wallet on 13 
August. Or whether hed ever ordered  a new card.
Mr M says we cant say it was him on the call on 12 May when he ordered a replacement  
card. But on hearing  the calls it does sound like him, and I dont think  voice  verification is 
necessary for me to make  this finding. The call was made from Mr Ms phone number (the 
same one hes used  to call us), and he also passed  security. I dont think  it was anyone else.
We also know that nobody knew Mr Ms PIN, or had access to it, so that part of the case  
remains inadequately  explained. With no feasible  point of compromise,  it leaves the only 
likely explanation that he himself used the card. 
Then theres  the matter of online banking, and the fact that Mr M says he only logged on 
once, but the evidence  shows  that this was actually  done 43 times.  And this was all done 
using the same device  as Mr M admits he used on the one single  occasion  he admits   18 
May  and each  time security was passed  and access gained.
Im satisfied it was Mr M accessing his online account, and that being the case, hed have 
realised well before July that there  were  transactions  he didnt recognise. 
As per the PSRs, I need to decide  whether I think the payments in question  were authorised 
by Mr M, and I think they were.  I appreciate  Mr M strongly disagrees, but taking all the 
evidence together  Im not persuaded by his version of events, and given that nobody else 
could have known  his PIN, I cant say there  was a point of compromise.  
Ref: DRN15729273On this basis, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Barclaycard responsible  for the outstanding 
balance on the account, so I wont be upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1572927