K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Canada Square  Operations  Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
I sent my provisional decision on 23 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this PPI policy had been mis-sold. I said Id consider anything else anyone  wanted to send 
me  so long as I received it by 23 October 2019.
Mr Ws representative didnt add any new comments. 
Canada Square  has responded and disagrees  with my provisional  decision. It has 
provided an additional screenshot that it says shows Mr W would have been presented  
with a range  of options to choose to reflect his employment status  when he applied for the 
card.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusion  that this PPI policy was mis-sold.
I acknowledge what Canada Square has said about  the application Mr W made. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision  I have  found  what Mr W said plausible  and its recent 
submission hasnt changed my mind.  Mr W has also been consistent in his recollections 
about being self employed from the outset  of his complaint and I find what  he has said 
persuasive about his circumstances when  he applied  for the card and PPI policy.
In conclusion, based on what both parties  have said and the documentation in front of me, I 
think it is more likely  than not Mr W was self employed at the time of sale and so would have 
been put off from having the policy if he was given  clearer information by Canada Square.  
And so it follows that I think this PPI policy was most likely to have been mis-sold.
putting things right
Canada Square  should put Mr W in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A.Canada Square should find out how much  Mr W would have owed when  he closed his 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN16631962Canada Square  should then refund the difference between  what Mr W owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square  can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Canada Square should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mr W would 
have owed when he closed  his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  8% simple a year.
C.If  when  Canada  Square works out what Mr W would have owed each month  without 
PPI  he paid more  than enough  to clear his balance,  Canada Square should  also pay 
simple interest  on the extra Mr W paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the 
point when Mr W wouldve owed Canada Square something  on his credit card. The 
interest rate should  again  be 8% simple a year.
D.Canada Square should tell Mr W what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mr W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Canada Square  
Operations Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16631963COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W has complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy which Canada  Square 
Operations Limited sold to him when he applied for a credit card.
background
Mr W bought  the PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card online. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident,  sickness or involuntary  unemployment.  Following a successful 
claim the policy wouldve paid 10% of Mr Ws credit  card balance for up to 12 months per claim.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Mr W didnt agree. So the case comes  to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done this, Im thinking about upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Canada Square  Operations Limiteds records show that Mr W took out the policy  and the card when 
he applied online via the EGG website.
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt recommend  the PPI cover with the card so this means it 
wasnt required to make  sure it was suitable for Mr W. But it was required to give him information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could  fairly make the decision  for himself  about whether 
or not to take out the policy.
Mr W has told our service that he was self employed at the time of sale so I think  Canada  Square 
Operations Limited needed  to provide  him with clear  information about any significant terms in relation 
to this.
One of the terms given  in the policy  states:  if you are self employed  your business  must have totally 
and permanently ceased  to trade as a direct result of it being  unable to pay its debts as and when 
they fell due. 
I would consider this term to be restrictive  as it would  require a self employed  policy holder to 
permanently cease to trade rather than be able to make a claim when they have temporarily stopped 
working. And I cant see that Canada Square Operations Limited provided Mr W with clear  information  
about this. 
Canada Square  Operations Limited says that its records show Mr W ticked a box in the online 
application to confirm he was employed at the time of the sale, rather  than self employed. Mr W has 
told us that although he did do that, it was because  he was a contractor, working for one company  on 
a self employed contract.
I think  thats a reasonable  explanation.  Canada Square Operations  Limited again says that there was 
an option for self employment that Mr W could have chosen. But I think he filled in the online form in 
the way he thought best explained his circumstances.
Ref: DRN16631964Overall, I dont think Ive seen enough to be able to say that Canada Square Operations  Limited made 
the terms of the policy clear  enough to Mr W  because if it had drawn Mr Ws attention to the fact 
that the term around self employment  was restrictive, I dont think its likely he wouldve  taken  it out. 
So, I think he has lost out as a result and Canada Square Operations Limited should put things right 
for him. 
putting things  right 
As things stand, heres what I intend to tell Canada Square  Operations Limited it should  do:
Canada Square  Operations Limited should put Mr W in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
the PPI.
A.Canada Square  Operations  Limited  should find out how much Mr W would  have owed when 
he closed his card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premium  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those  charges.
Canada Square  Operations Limited should then refund the difference between what Mr W 
owed when he closed  his account and what  he would have owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr W made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square Operations Limited 
can take off what he got for the claim from the amount  it owes his.
B.Canada Square  Operations  Limited  should add simple interest on the difference between 
what Mr W would have  owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets 
the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when Canada Square Operations Limited works out what  Mr W would have  owed each 
month without PPI  Mr W paid more than enough to clear his balance, Canada Square 
Operations Limited should also pay simple interest  on the extra he paid. And it should  carry  
on paying  interest until the point  when Mr W would have  owed something on his card. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Canada Square  Operations  Limited  should tell Mr W what its done to work out A, B, and C.
 HM Revenue and Customs requires  Canada  Square Operations Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. Canada Square  Operations  Limited  must give Mr W a certificate showing  how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one. 
my provisional  decision 
Subject to any further comments from the parties by 23 October 2019  Ive said,  I plan to uphold this 
complaint and tell Canada Square Operations Limited to take the steps Ive set out above to put 
things right for Mr W.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1663196