K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) wouldnt accept her mobile 
phone insurance  claim.
background
Mrs F claimed for her mobile phone stolen  while she was abroad.  On the claim form she said 
the phone  was in a locked  car and when she returned the car window had been broken and 
the phone  taken. 
D&G asked  Mrs F where the phone was in the car and to provide proof of forced entry to the 
car wth repair receipts. Mrs F then told D&G  the thief had opened the car lock so no 
damage was done to the car.
D&G declined the claim. The policy covered theft with force  from a car and Mrs F hadnt 
shown force or violence had been used.  
Mrs F complained to us. She thought D&G  had declined  the claim because  the theft 
happened abroad. She said she had worldwide cover.
Our investigator thought D&G had fairly  declined  the claim.
Mrs F doesnt agree and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said she'd been paying for 
her policy for over two years so wanted  a new phone or her insurance  premiums refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Mrs F told us her claim  wasn't  paid because the theft happened abroad.  But thats not the 
reason D&G declined  the claim. Her policy did have  worldwide  cover.  D&G declined  the 
claim because  how the phone was stolen.
The policy document is very clear that it doesnt cover:
theft from an unattended vehicle unless the (phone)  is completely hidden from view, within a 
closed glove compartment or locked boot, within a fully locked and secure vehicle  and 
violent or forcible  entry to the vehicle and boot (if appropriate) can be evidenced.
Theres no evidence the phone was in a closed glove  compartment or locked boot and no 
evidence to show force or violence was used to enter the car. So theres no cover for the 
stolen phone.
Also, Mrs F gave  D&G two very different versions  of how the theft occurred. She initially told 
D&G the car window was broken but when asked for evidence  of the damage she then told 
D&G the thief opened the car lock and no damage was done to the car. Even if I thought  
opening a car lock could be violent entry I dont think D&G needs to pay the claim. As Mrs F 
gave two very different versions the whole circumstances of the theft are unknown.
Ref: DRN19945422D&G fairly and reasonably declined Mrs F's claim. It doesnt need  to give her a new phone 
and it doesnt  need to refund her insurance  premiums.
Mrs F had cover  for the time she was insured, but like all insurance policies the cover was 
subject to the policy terms. D&G doesnt need to refund the premiums  just because the claim 
wasnt covered.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1994542