K820x#14complaint
Mr S in his role as executor of his mothers estate, has complained about her home insurer 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (SAI) in respect of a claim he made to it after the property was 
burgled.
background
Mr Ss mother passed away in late January 2018,  Mr S found her in her home. Mr S visited  
her bank branch  to discuss her account and, because the bank had also arranged  her 
property insurance  cover,  the bank representative called the insurance department to update 
their records. 
The insurance advisor changed  the policyholders  name and advised  the bank 
representative that cover for specified  items was removed. The representative told Mr S 
about this. The insurance advisor then asked to speak to Mr S. The advisor told Mr S about 
some policy conditions and endorsements that were being applied  to the cover  some  of 
which restricted the cover being  provided.  Mr S indicated he understood what  he was told. 
About a week later the property was broken into, damage was done to a window and some  
jewellery plus a mobile phone  were  stolen. Mr S made  a claim to SAI. He was asked to 
complete a loss list and meet a personal claims consultant  (PCC) at the property. He was 
asked to go through photos to find evidence of the items taken. Mr S was then told the claim 
was being declined because of an endorsement that had been applied to the policy  when 
Mr S told SAI of his mother passing which removed cover for all high-risk items.
Mr S felt SAIs actions were unfair.  He said hed been  told about the cover for specified item 
being removed  but nothing else. He also felt if the cover was restricted in this way SAI 
should have told him this earlier, and avoided al the upset it had caused by making  him do 
the loss list, look at photos and visit the house. 
SAI wrote to Mr S. It apologised for any upset hed been caused   it noted it shouldnt  have 
asked him to return to the house.  It offered £250  compensation. But it said its decline of the 
claim was fair and reasonable because the endorsement had been applied  before the 
burglary and Mr S had been told about  it during the phone call that took place when he 
visited the bank  branch.  Mr S complained to us.
Our investigator felt that SAI had acted fairly  and reasonable in declining  the claim. He 
explained that he couldnt consider the upset Mr S has been  caused because he was acting 
as an executor for his mothers estate. Mr S said he understood our findings but asked for an 
ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for any upset this may cause Mr S, Im not minded to uphold  his 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
All home insurance  policies are offered subject to certain terms and conditions.  It isnt 
uncommon, when  circumstances change, for an insurer to add terms to the cover. 
Ref: DRN19594332Sometimes this results in the available cover being  restricted. An insurer is free to make  
changes like this  but we expect it to be clear about the changes  that are being made.
Ive heard the conversation that took place between the insurance  advisor,  the bank 
representative and Mr S. Im satisfied  that the advisor clearly  told Mr S that high risk items  
wouldnt be covered.  Mr S didnt indicate  he was unclear about what hed been  told, and he 
didnt ask for any clarity as to what SAI considered  high risk items to be. Im satisfied he had 
the opportunity  to ask but didnt do so. Im satisfied that SAI applied  the endorsement fairly 
and I cant see any grounds  for saying  it cant,  therefore, rely on it in the circumstances of 
the claim.
Given Mr Ss recent loss it is unfortunate how SAI handled the claim he made. However, and 
whilst I note that SAI has offered Mr S some compensation, I cant consider the upset Mr S 
was caused. Mr S is an executor  he made the claim  and complaint in that role as 
representative for his mothers estate.  Mr S isnt a complainant in his own right. And this 
service cant consider what upset an insurer causes to a representative of a 
policyholder/complainant. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S as executor 
on behalf of his late mothers estate, to accept  or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1959433