K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Creation Financial  Services Limited failed to warn him when he asked  
to lower his credit limit that he may not be able to increase it at a later date. He also 
complains the business  didnt  explain why it later refused a request to increase the credit  
limit.
background 
Mr C contacted creation  to request  a reduction  in his credit limit from £4,000 to £2,000 
because he was splitting  up with his partner and wanted  to make sure they couldnt  spend 
too much  on the card. When  he later asked for the credit limit to be increased to £4,000  
again, his request was declined. Mr C complained  to Creation because  he said it shouldve 
warned him the original limit might not be reinstated..
Creation rejected the complaint so Mr C came to this service. Our adjudicator  looked into the 
complaint. She didnt  think Creation  needed to have told Mr C about  the risk his credit limit 
might not be reinstated in the future. But Creation accepted it shouldve  given Mr C more  
information when  it declined his application for a credit increase and offered £30 as 
compensation for that which the adjudicator  thought was fair and reasonable. Mr C 
disagreed and asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand Mr Cs frustration at his 
situation, but I dont  think  his complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Creations explained  that it doesnt  inform customers requesting  a reduction in their credit  
limit that they might not be able to increase it in the future because this might put people off 
reducing their credit  limit when they need  to. In my view,  this is a reasonable explanation. I 
understand that Mr C says he wouldnt  have reduced the credit limit if hed known this was a 
possibility. But its impossible to know what wouldve  happened if he hadnt reduced the 
credit limit. Im satisfied  that Creation acted reasonably in that it responded to his request to 
reduce the credit limit and then considered  his later application to increase it based  on the 
information it had about his circumstances  at the time.
I can see that Creations accepted it shouldve given Mr C more  information when it declined 
his application  to increase  his credit limit and its offered him £30 as compensation for the 
trouble and inconvenience  thats caused.  This compensation is for the failure to provide  
relevant information,  not for the failure  to approve  the request. Mr C says this isnt enough 
taking account  of the fact he paid £15 for a credit report  as part of the complaint. But this 
compensation is not a refund of costs; rather it reflects the trouble this error caused  Mr C. In 
the circumstances given the limited  impact this error had on Mr C, I think the offer is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Ref: DRN18201432Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1820143