K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP was irresponsible  when it lent to her. 
She asks for a refund  of interest  and charges, that any balance is written  off, compensation 
for her upset and 8% interest  on all of this. Miss K is represented  by a claims management 
company.
background
Miss K took out two loans  with Uncle Buck in May 2014. Miss K says she had low disposable 
income and other debts.  She says the loans from Uncle  Buck made her financial situation 
worse.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said the cost of 
repaying the loans  was a fair proportion  of Miss Ks £1,300 monthly income. The adjudicator 
said, as Uncle Buck didnt  ask Miss K about  her expenditure, it was reasonable to use the 
expenditure information shed provided  to us. This showed she didnt have enough 
disposable income left to meet the loan repayments.
Uncle Buck  said that Miss K told it she had a second monthly income  of £1,300.  The 
adjudicator said it wasnt  reasonable  for Uncle Buck to take this into account without asking 
for more information. Our adjudicator said that Uncle Buck should refund interest and 
charges with 8% interest and remove any negative information about the loans from Miss Ks 
credit file. Uncle Buck didnt agree  and the complaint  was passed to me.
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations. So I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties  to explain why. In it, I set out my provisional findings and decision  which  are 
substantially the same as the findings and decision  set out below. Neither Uncle Buck nor 
Miss K responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Miss K took out two loans  with Uncle Buck:
Loan 1: £150 taken  out on 2 May 2014. £202 was due to be repaid on 20 May 2014.
Loan 2: £225 taken  out on 24 May 2014. £303.64 was due to be repaid on 20 June 
2014.
When she applied for the loans,  Miss K said her monthly take home  pay was £1,300 with her 
next payday due 20 May (loan  1) and 20 June (loan  2).  
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. This 
means it should have  carried  out proportionate  checks to make sure Miss K could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the Miss Ks income  
and expenditure.  
Ref: DRN12861202In the early stages of a lending relationship, as is the case here,  less thorough  checks might 
be reasonable and proportionate.  
Uncle Buck  says it checked  Miss Ks employment and did a credit check which  confirmed 
Miss Ks monthly income of £1,300. Uncle Buck hasnt said it verified Miss Ks stated  second  
income, also £1,300.  I dont think its reasonable for Uncle Buck  to verify income of £1,300 
and then use a higher  amount of £2,600  to assess whether lending is sustainable. 
Uncle Buck  didnt ask Miss K for her expenditure information. It said it did an expenditure 
analysis using data modelling. The monthly expenditure it based its affordability  assessment 
on suggested the loans were affordable, even  if monthly income of £1,300 was used.
A high street  bank recorded a default  on Miss Ks credit file dated March 2014.  While Uncle  
Buck says it checked  for registered defaults, I dont know if this would have  appeared on 
Miss Ks credit file by the time it did its checks. If Uncle Buck  was aware  of the default,  Id 
expect it to take it into account.  But it doesnt  in itself mean it cant lend to Miss K. I havent 
seen anything else that would suggest  Uncle Buck  should have been aware that Miss K 
would have difficulty repaying the loans.  
Given Miss Ks monthly income of £1,300, the amount of the loan repayments and the other  
information Uncle Buck had, I dont think its reasonable  to say that Uncle Buck  should have 
known the loans were  unaffordable or that it needed to make  further  checks.
It follows that I dont think Uncle Buck was wrong to offer these loans  to Miss K.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1286120