K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complained that she was mis-sold  a store card payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) has taken  responsibility  for this 
complaint.
background
Mrs T bought the policy in October  1997  when she took out a store  card. Mrs T and FICL 
agreed that the sale took place in-store. FICL said it didnt advise Mrs T to take the PPI  
Mrs T disagreed, and said she was told she had to have the PPI to get the card. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  for each £100 Mrs T owed on her store card.  It provided 
life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment cover  for Mrs T. If shed successfully claimed  on 
the policy, each  month  it wouldve paid out 15% of what she owed on the card when she 
stopped working.  This wouldve carried on until she returned to work or the balance  was 
cleared. The policy also included purchase  protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Mrs T didnt agree and so the complaint has 
come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL sent us a copy of Mrs Ts store card application. This shows a tick in a box to say that 
Mrs T wanted the PPI. Mrs T said the salesperson told her which  sections of the form to 
complete by marking them with crosses. She also said the salesperson ticked  the box for 
PPI and said she had to have the PPI to get the card. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs T has said. But set against this, there is no cross by 
the PPI section, which I wouldve expected to see if the salesperson  was presenting  the PPI 
as being compulsory. And theres nothing on the form to suggest that the PPI was a 
requirement for having the card. 
On balance, I dont  think I can fairly  say its most  likely that Mrs T wasnt given a choice 
about the PPI, which is what  Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  
I simply dont  have  enough evidence that this is what  happened.  
FICL and Mrs T disagree about whether the PPI was recommended  for Mrs T. But this 
doesnt affect my decision, because even if I treat this as an advised sale  which holds 
FICL to a higher standard  I think it wouldve been  a reasonable recommendation to make. 
I cant know how the salesperson explained  the policy, including  the things not covered. But I 
dont think Mrs T would have been affected by any of these.
Ref: DRN11514132Mrs T told us that, when she took out the policy, she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from 
her employer of less than three months  pay, and she had a similar  amount  in savings. I 
think Mrs T could have  found it difficult to make  the payments on her card once her sick pay 
ended or if she lost her job. So I think the PPI couldve provided  a useful benefit.
Ive also thought about the information Mrs T mightve been given about the policy.  There  
are brief details of the cover on the application form, and a reference  to another  document,  
but I dont have a copy  of that. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits  
may not have been as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mrs Ts circumstances, I dont think more detailed information about  the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed her decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if shed  been unable to work. 
I do understand that Mrs T feels strongly about this, but overall I dont think  the PPI was mis-
sold. So FICL doesnt need to refund everything  Mrs T paid for it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1151413