K821x#15complaint
Mr Q complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor  Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr Q under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance 
that he signed in October  2017. The car was nearly  eight  years old and had been driven for 
about 82,000 miles.  Within three weeks Mr Q became  concerned about noise from the car 
and the turbo had to be replaced.  A few days later the car had a power loss and the 
alternator and battery  had to be replaced. But the power failed again and multiple error 
codes were showing  which  were reset by the dealer. The car had another power loss in 
March 2018. Mr Q wanted to reject  the car but the central engine  module was repaired. The 
cars passenger window  motor broke  in May 2018  and was repaired. Mr Q says that the car 
still suffers from power issues. He complained  to Blue Motor Finance but wasnt satisfied  
with its response so complained to this service.
Blue Motor  Finance says that Mr Q paid £3,434.13 in June 2018 to settle his agreement 
early and he then received £2,500  part-exchange  for the car when  he bought a replacement 
car from a different dealer. 
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that Mr Q 
should've been able to reject the car in March  2018  when it had power issues.  And she 
recommended that Blue Motor Finance should pay £934.13 to Mr Q (which is the difference 
between the amount that he paid to settle  his agreement and the part-exchange value that 
he received), with interest. She also recommended  that it should pay him £150 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  that he was caused.
Blue Motor  Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that Mr Q wanted  to reject  the car in March 2018 but he accepted a 
courtesy car from the dealer and was fully aware of the repairs being carried out. And it says 
that the issue with the power unit may not have been present when the car was supplied to 
Mr Q. It says that Mr Q accepted the repairs and wouldnt have been entitled  to a courtesy 
car if hed rejected the car. And it says that Mr Q no longer wanted the car and obtained full 
market value in part-exchange so it shouldnt be liable for any shortfall.
Mr Q says that he lost a week of work as a result  of the issues with the car so he says that 
the compensation for his distress and inconvenience should be increased to £500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was almost eight  years old and had been driven for about 82,000 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr Q in October 2017.  The total cash price of the car was £3,795  which Mr Q 
financed using a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance. Within  three  weeks 
Mr Q became concerned  about noise from the car and the turbo had to be replaced.  A few 
days later the car had a power  loss and the alternator and battery had to be replaced.  But 
the power failed  again and multiple error  codes were  showing  which were reset  by the 
Ref: DRN15554172dealer. The car had another power loss in March 2018. Mr Q wanted to reject  the car but the 
central engine  module  was repaired
I dont consider that Mr Q shouldve experienced so many issues  with the car. The issues 
started within a month after the car was supplied to him and are on-going  despite  the 
repairs that have  been made to the car. Mr Q clearly told Blue Motor Finance in March  2018 
that he wanted to reject  the car  but it arranged for the car to be repaired. Because of all of 
the issues that Mr Q had experienced, I consider it to be more  likely than not that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Q. And I find that it wouldve been 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances  for it to have  allowed him to reject  car at that 
time  rather  than repairing it. 
Mr Q settled his agreement  early  in June 2018 and Blue Motor Finance says that he paid it 
£3,434.13. Mr Q then part-exchanged that car for £2,500 when he bought a replacement car. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Blue Motor  Finance 
to refund to Mr Q the difference  between those two amounts  which  is £934.13  with 
interest.
These events have clearly  caused distress and inconvenience to Mr Q. The investigator 
recommended that Blue Motor Finance should pay him £150  to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience. But Mr Q says that he should receive  £500  compensation. Im 
not persuaded that Mr Q has provide enough  evidence to show  that the distress  and 
inconvenience that hes been caused justifies £500 compensation. I consider that £150 
compensation is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Qs complaint. And I order  Blue Motor 
Finance Limited  to:
1.Pay £934.13 to Mr Q to reimburse  him for the difference between the amount that 
he paid to settle his agreement early  and the part-exchange value that he 
received for the car.
2.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3.Pay £150 to Mr Q to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Blue Motor  Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 2 above. Blue Motor  Finance  must  give Mr Q a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1555417