K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. FICL didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but to keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs G took out a store card in 2003. She didnt take out PPI at that stage but FICLs 
records say that a PPI policy to cover  it was sold to her about five months later during a 
telephone conversation between Mrs G and a FICL representative.
FICL is unsure what the costs and benefits of the policy were. Our adjudicator said in his 
view that based  on other  similarly branded  policies  this service has seen from this time, 
the likely  policy cost was 89p per £100  and the likely benefit paid out was 10% of the 
outstanding monthly  balance  for up to 12 months  if Mrs G was off work  sick or lost her 
job. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because he thought that the costs  and benefits  of 
the policy hadnt been made clear to Mrs G. And that if they had been, Mrs G wouldnt 
have taken the policy out because it wasnt useful enough for her in her circumstances.
In their reply  to our adjudicators view FICL didnt dispute the cost or benefit figures the 
adjudicator had thought  likely  but it didnt agree to uphold the complaint,  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case.  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint for the same reasons as set out by 
our adjudicator.
This was a non advised sale, by which I mean that FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G 
or advise  her to take it. So the requirement on FICL was only to give Mrs G clear, fair and 
non-misleading information about  the policy  so that she could make  a proper choice about 
whether or not to take the policy.
Im aware that FICL was initially  unsure about  what the costs and benefits of the policy  sold 
to Mrs G might have  been. But I agree with our adjudicators  view that based  on other 
similarly branded policies  this service has seen from this time, the likely policy  cost was 89p 
per £100  and the likely benefit  paid out was 10% of the outstanding monthly balance  for up 
to 12 months if Mrs G was off work sick or lost her job. And I note that on the store  card 
application form FICL presented to Mrs G five months before the PPI was bought, although 
rather unclear, the PPI appears to be offered at a cost of 89p per £100. In response to the 
adjudicators view FICL has not disputed these costs and benefits, or sent in any evidence to 
the contrary. So I think its more likely than not they were the costs  and benefits of the policy.
Ref: DRN11827312The PPI policy was sold on the telephone and it was during the call Mrs G shouldve been 
given clear information about it. FICL  hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording 
from February 2004  but this isnt surprising  given the time that has elapsed  more than 14 
years. So I dont know exactly what was said.
This service has seen a number of telephone scripts  from that time that FICL used when  
selling PPI by phone.  In these FICL doesnt explain that the cost of the PPI would be added 
to Mrs Gs card balance  and then be subject to interest charges, or that Mrs G would  have to 
pay premiums  during a claim  and that interest  would be charged on those premiums, if there 
was an outstanding balance. I think its likely FICLs  representative would have at least 
broadly followed  the script
So I think its more likely  than not that Mrs G wasnt made aware  of the true costs of the 
policy. 
Mrs G has told us that she had been  in a stable occupation for three years and she would 
have got over 6 months of full salary  sick pay from her employer. So I think she would have 
felt it was unlikely  she would lose her job, and in the event that she became sick, she would 
have been able to keep  her store card repayments going for a substantial period. So had 
she been made aware of the true costs  of the policy, in her situation, I dont think  shed have 
seen the policy as useful enough that she would have wanted to buy it. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint and I dont have to deal with the other issues  Mrs G has 
raised about the sale.
fair compensation
FICL says that the store card account and associated PPI are now closed.
So FICL should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs G would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs G would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs G paid more than enough to clear  her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest 
on the extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Ref: DRN11827313Mrs G wouldve owed FICL something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs G that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the compensation above.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Financial  Insurance Company Limited and require 
them to pay Mrs G the compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1182731