K822xcomplaint
Miss M and Mr W are unhappy with Amtrust  Europe  Limiteds handling of a claim they made  
under their building  warranty  policy. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2019. I explained I upheld 
Miss M and Mr Ws complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Miss M and Mr W have been  unhappy  with Amtrusts handling of several complaints theyve
raised. They brought a complaint to us in 2017,  and they accepted our first investigators
findings in full and final settlement of that complaint towards the end of 2017.  So this
decision focuses on whats happened  after this point.
Following the first complaint to us about  the remedial works that needed to be carried out,
Amtrust put a schedule  of works out to tender in spring 2018.  The tenders were  all received
and approved by early  April 2018,  when the process of finding  alternative accommodation
began. Between April and July 2018, there was some confusion  about whether
Miss M and Mr W were able to move  into the alternative accommodation so the works at
their home could begin. There  were then further  complications around finding a property that
met their requirements.
Eventually a suitable  property  was identified, and Miss M and Mr W were  told the works
would take 12 weeks to complete. The works  began in the autumn of 2018. They took less
than the 12 weeks  indicated; enabling Miss M and Mr W to return  home sooner than
expected.
Unfortunately, when they returned home, Miss M and Mr W still didnt consider the schedule
of works had been completed to a reasonable standard.
At the end of 2018, Miss M provided  several photos showing the issues  she considered still
required attention.  The surveyor  considered  these  and replied in early  January. He agreed
some of the issues Miss M highlighted needed  further work. However, he said he didnt
consider some other  works  needed to be carried out, because  they had been  completed to a
reasonable standard, as required under the warranty.
Miss M and Mr W have  been unhappy  with the entire handling  of their claim. They feel the
works have  been  difficult to arrange  and theyve been on the receiving end of mixed and
confusing messages. They feel theyve endured a long period of living  in their new home
with continued  problems and they dont feel that Amtrust or its agents have handled any
element of their claim appropriately.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. She said there  had been  delays  in
sourcing alternative  accommodation, but both sides had, at points, contributed to these.
Overall, on this point, the investigator felt Amtrust had acted appropriately when trying to
source alternative accommodation.  She agreed  that some of the works hadnt been
completed to a reasonable standard but considered the remedy  for this was that they were
completed in line with the standard  set out in the technical manual.
Ref: DRN18830142Our investigator acknowledged  there  had been  delays in starting the works but said some of
these were outside the insurers control.  Overall, she concluded the snagging works were
taking longer to assess and complete  than was reasonable in the circumstances. She
recommended that Amtrust find a date much  sooner to carry out, review and sign off the
snagging works than it had suggested.  She also recommended Amtrust  pay
Miss M and Mr W £150 in recognition of their trouble, upset and inconvenience during the
claim.
Amtrust accepted the investigators conclusions  but Miss M and Mr W didnt. They  said the
compensation payment didnt go far enough  to recognise the impact the ongoing claim had
on them.  They repeated  their complaint was about  the delays in finding  alternative
accommodation, the poor customer  service theyd endured throughout their claim and delay
in finishing the works.
As Miss M and Mr W remained unhappy with the quality of the works carried  out in 2018, a
further inspection  was carried out in January  2019.  The surveyor agreed there were  five
specific tasks that needed  to be completed,  and these were  finished in February.
Miss M and Mr W decided  to put their home  up for sale. They say in July 2019, they had a
buyer and the sale had been agreed. They say the buyer decided not to proceed  as a result
of problems theyd  experienced and the time it took for these to be rectified.  The buyer was
also concerned  about  any increase of excess that might become due under the policy  if
further works  needed to be carried out.
Miss M said she thought  a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint was for a payment
of £1,500 to be made to her and Mr W. She said this would cover the £1,100 they had lost in
legal fees as a result of the sale falling  through and an additional payment for the three years
of stress, anxiety, depression and inconvenience theyd experienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  There have been significant  submissions
made by both sides and Ive carefully  considered all of these,  but Ive focused on those
points I consider most relevant.
Its clear through  the correspondence Ive been  provided with how strongly  Miss M and Mr W
feel about this matter. They purchased a new home in 2015 and feel that theyve had
continuous problems.  As they know, the scope  of our consideration is limited  to what
happened after they accepted our first investigators  opinion in autumn of 2017.
And, when  reaching  my conclusions, I also need to consider the obligations of the insurer
when it comes to identifying defects and putting things right.  These are set out in the
technical manual  which  says:
What is a Defect?
A Defect exists when the Developer has failed  to comply with a functional
requirement of the Technical Manual . The duties of the Developer in respect of a
Defect are set out in Section 3.2 of this Policy  together with the Exclusions relevant
to this section.
Ref: DRN18830143Section 3.2 also sets out the following exclusion:
The Underwriter shall not be liable to the Policyholder for any:
7) minor blemishes that are subjective  in degree i.e. brush marks, decoration etc;
While I can see Miss M and Mr W have been unhappy about several issues, some  of the
issues theyve raised arent  considered to be defects  under the policy. Therefore, this
decision focuses only on those issues that constitute  a defect under the policy.
the time taken
In late 2017, Amtrust arranged for the surveyor to go back to the property to draw up a new
scope of works. The schedule of remedial  works  identified works needed to be carried out:
to the flat roof;
in the first floor bathroom;
in the kitchen;
to the hallway and store room;
in the dining room and living room;
and for redecorating  to be carried  out in several locations
The schedule of works set out exactly what issues would be covered by warranty works.
However, there were  some delays with being  able to put the schedule  of works out to tender
because the building in which Miss M and Mr W lived was listed.  So while there  were  some
delays around  this, I think they were beyond the insurers  control  given the listed  status  of
the property. It seems this was always going  to have  an impact  on the time taken to move
forward with the repairs.
After the contractor had been appointed,  the focus moved to finding alternative
accommodation for the duration of the works. And the time taken around this has been one
of Miss M and Mr Ws primary concerns. Ive looked at what they were  entitled to under their
policy, and for ease, Ill include this below:
During the Defects  Insurance Period the Developer should comply  with the
following obligations:
Reimburse the Policyholder for all necessary  and reasonable  costs including
temporary accommodation should the nature of any repair, replacement or
rectification be such that the Policyholder  needs  to vacate the Housing  Unit whilst
such repair replacement or rectification is carried  out.
Wed usually expect  that any alternative  accommodation should  be similar to the insured
property. But its sometimes challenging to find an exact match. I accept  Miss M and Mr W
werent expecting  an exact match for their existing property. But they were  very clear about
their requirements for any property and why these were necessary, and this impacted the
search requirements.
I can see there occasionally were delays on both sides in replying to emails about alternative
accommodation. Some of Miss M and Mr Ws requirements made  finding  a suitable property
for the time required  a bit more challenging.  However, I havent seen anything to suggest
that Amtrust or any of its agents unduly  delayed sourcing accommodation or obstructed the
Ref: DRN18830144searches.
When the most appropriate property was secured for Miss M and Mr W, I can see Amtrust
took steps to overcome  some of the challenges with the property, such as providing curtains,
clothing rails and a standalone internet connection  which enabled Miss M and Mr W to
continue their existing  working patterns more closely than they might have otherwise.
Miss M and Mr W dont  agree  with this. They say they were offered  properties that didnt
meet their specifications,  and therefore  it took much longer than it should  have to find a
property. However, where less suitable properties were  offered, I think  this was done with
the intention of enabling the works to be completed  sooner.  I dont think it reflected Amtrust
not understanding their requirements.
I can understand Miss M and Mr Ws desire to have  the works completed as soon as
possible, as theyd explained  the living conditions, particularly the damp  theyd mentioned on
several occasions, and of their home  were  having a detrimental  impact on Mr Ws health.
Suitable alternative accommodation was finally identified  in August 2018.
Overall, while  I can see there were occasionally delays on both sides, I havent seen
anything which leads  me to conclude Amtrust didnt comply with what  was expected of it
under the policy.
Miss M and Mr W moved back into their home in late 2018,  well within  the 12-week
timeframe initially given  for the works  to be completed. However, I can understand their
disappointment that, after such a long time,  the remedial works were  still not completed to a
satisfactory standard. And I think their feeling of frustration was compounded by Amtrusts
initial response that they would send a surveyor out several weeks  later,  in early February. I
note it only brought  this inspection forward after our investigator recommended it do so.
The outstanding issues identified from that inspection were:
excessive adhesive  on tiles in the bathroom
poor grouting to the tiles behind the bath taps
walls  and skirting boards required repainting in the master  bedroom
poor paint finish around  the door frame  in the entrance hall
The insurer  has sent documentation demonstrating  these snagging works were  completed to
the standard set out in the technical  manual  in early February.
However, I think it took longer than it should have to finalise the snagging list and complete
the works.  Like our investigator, I think Amtrust  ought to have actively  been looking for the
earliest possible date to for the surveyor to go back out and carry out the inspection. Its for
this reason that I can see Miss M and Mr W feel that their long-standing concerns about their
home havent been listened to.
potential loss of sale
In early 2019, Miss M and Mr W had put their property  on the market and had a sale agreed.
However, the buyer pulled out of the sale and Miss M and Mr W say they were  told there
were two main reasons  for this. The first was their experience in getting the remedial works
carried out. And the second issue was the excess payable  under the policy rose from £250
to £1,000 after two years.
Ref: DRN18830145From what  Miss M and Mr W have told us, their first buyer decided not to proceed because,
in part, they were concerned about paying the increased excess  set out under the policy.
They say this cost them over £1,000 in legal fees.
However, in July 2019, Miss M and Mr W say there was a further inspection of their home,
which they werent expecting. This later inspection identified two issues  with the property 
some tile sealant in the bathroom  had mould or mildew and a slat of the wooden  floor was
squeaking or was loose.
Miss M and Mr W have  said these works werent carried out before the sale went  through,
but they did not receive as large  of an amount  for the sale of (property) that we would have,
had the works been completed .
We asked Amtrust about these issues. It said because  these  were  new complaint points
which it hadnt been able to address; it wanted  to look at this first. Therefore, it did not give
consent for us to investigate these matters before it had done so. As a result,  I havent
considered whether these issues had an impact on the overall sale price  for the property,  or
if Amtrust should contribute to the legal fees they say they incurred from the sale that fell
through.
I realise Miss M and Mr W would like us to look at these issues  - they are keen to be able to
draw this complaint  to a close. However, the rules under which  we operate only allow  us to
investigate a complaint  if a business  has been  able to do so first. So if Miss M and Mr W
want these points to be considered, theyll need  to contact Amtrust directly to take this
forward.
trouble and upset
Our investigator recommended a payment of £150 for the trouble and upset
Miss M and Mr W had experienced.  I think its often the case that situations where there are
ongoing problems  with someones  home are stressful and worrying.  Ive considered  the
impact of Amtrusts  actions.
Ive looked back  at the messages and the communication from Amtrust.  I think there are
occasions where it could have  been clearer about what  was happening and done more  to
recognise that for Miss M and Mr W, this matter had been ongoing for almost the entire time
theyd been in their home. And, over the time these matters have been unresolved,  its been
clear the impact on Miss M and Mr W has increased.
Its also clear  the works carried  out at the end of 2018 werent  completed  to an acceptable
standard. I recognise  that from an aesthetic perspective, Miss M and Mr Ws expectations
might have been higher than the technical  manual requires of Amtrust. But I still think  it
would have been hugely frustrating and disappointing to find that, after such  a long time,  the
repairs did not bring their concerns about their home to an end. And I think this was made
significantly worse by Amtrusts failure  to proactively identify it should send the surveyor  as a
priority. As a result, Im intending to increase the compensation award recommended  by our
investigator.
Amtrust responded  and said it accepted my provisional decision.  Miss M and Mr W didnt. 
They said they thought 
Ref: DRN18830146my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M and Mr W say that they feel very strongly about the fact they have mentioned the 
loss of their first buyer and the impact this had on their legal fees.  They feel I should  
consider this. I can see they first mentioned this to us in May 2019.  But I cant see this was 
raised as a formal  complaint with Amtrust at the time. 
We asked Amtrust for its view on this, and if it would consent to us looking into this issue  
first. As Miss M and Mr W specifically commented on the outcome of an inspection  that took 
place in the summer of 2019, it said that these issues were  new,  and it wanted to respond to 
these separately.
I can appreciate Miss M and Mr Ws frustration,  as I understand theyre keen to see this 
matter resolved. However, unless we have consent  from a business, we cant  investigate a 
complaint before its had the opportunity to review a complaint made  to it. If Miss M and 
Mr W remain unhappy with Amtrusts response  to these  newer  complaints they will be able 
to refer those concerns  to this service if they want. 
This was only one part of the complaint Miss M and Mr W made about Amtrusts  handling  of 
their claim. However, apart from saying they should be compensated for the lost legal  fees, 
they havent provided me with any further comments to consider about the award for trouble 
and upset that I thought was fair and reasonable, apart from the fact they dont feel it is 
enough in the circumstances.
However, having considered everything both sides have said again, Ive not been persuaded 
to reach  a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional decision. To put things right,  
Amtrust should pay Miss M and Mr W £300 in recognition of its handling of their claim for the 
reasons set out above.      
my final decision
Im upholding Miss M and Mr Ws complaint and, to put things  right, Amtrust Europe Limited
should pay them £300 for the trouble and upset experienced.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1883014