K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that their claim for damage to their home was rejected  under 
their home insurance policy by QIC Europe  Ltd. 
background
During a rain storm Mr and Mrs Rs home  suffered water ingress  due to a box gutter being 
overwhelmed by the volume  of rain that fell. This affected an upstairs bedroom and the 
rooms over the two floors  below.
They made a claim to QIC, but it declined the claim. It said that there was no cover for the 
damage because  it only provides  cover for storms that involve winds of force 10 on the 
Beaufort Scale. 
Mr and Mrs R were not happy with this decision  and referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and upheld it. He explained that not all 
storms involved high winds  there were times when rain, hail or snowfall by itself would be 
considered a storm. These types  of storm were not excluded under the policy terms and 
conditions, as would be expected if the insurer didnt intend to cover all types of storm. He 
was satisfied that there was a storm and that the damage was consistent  with a storm. As 
such, he considered  that the claim should  be paid.
QIC didnt initially comment on the investigators  findings, but rather suggested it visit the 
property again  to inspect the damage. Given that QIC had inspected the property twice, our 
investigator considered  that a further  inspection would only be appropriate if QIC accepted  
his conclusions and was preparing to settle  the claim. 
Subsequently, QIC confirmed that it didnt accept  the investigators  conclusions. It said that it 
only covered what its policy wording covers, so it doesnt cover rain storms. This is because 
it thinks claims for storm would be caused  by the wind involved. Our investigator  maintained  
that the claim should be covered and so the matter  has been referred to me for 
consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy is what is described  as a perils-based  policy. That is one where  the 
insurer sets out specific  occurrences that can cause damage to a property and for which it 
provides cover. In the case  of this policy there are 12 core perils  that are covered. The third 
of these is storm. It goes on to explain:
We will cover  loss or damage caused by storm winds of Force  10 or above  (as defined 
under the internationally  recognised Beaufort  Scale). 
This cover does not include: 
a contents in the open
b loss of damage  caused by frost
c loss or damage to radio  and television  aerials  or satellite  dishes,  and their fittings  and 
masts, and
Ref: DRN19276992d anything that happens gradually
A storm  can come in many  forms and usually, the element of the storm that causes the initial  
damage to a property  will be the wind. As such,  its not unusual for an insurer  to set out what  
wind speed it requires  for it to conclude windy, inclement weather is a storm. QICs 
requirement is in line with the industry norm. However, the simple fact that an insurer has set 
a wind speed  for when  there is a wind-based storm, doesnt exclude other types of storm 
from being covered.  
QIC is saying that when it set out that there had to be a minimum wind-speed for a storm, it 
intended to exclude all other  forms of storm. I dont consider that what it did in the policy 
terms achieved this result. Firstly, it has said that it covers the peril of storm, not the peril of 
wind-based storm. The common  usage of the term storm would include rain, hail and snow 
storms. In addition, I would expect the list of things not covered to include the alternative  
types of storm, which it does not. 
I would also comment that even if QIC had done  the above,  we would consider this to be an 
unusual term as it would restrict  the cover  available and provide something significantly 
different to most policies in the market. QIC will know that if an insurer includes an unusual 
or onerous  term, which significantly affects  the cover available under the policy,  it would  
need to highlight this term to a consumer. I have seen no evidence  that anything  of this 
nature was done. 
Whilst it might have  been QICs intention to restrict the cover under its policy to just 
wind-storms, I dont  consider that it has achieved this in the way it has described  the peril or 
written the terms of its policy.
As such,  I have considered whether there was a storm on the day in question. I am satisfied 
from the weather  data and the local news articles  that there was a rain storm at the time of 
the damage to Mr and Mrs Rs home. As such, they potentially have a valid claim, if the 
storm was the dominant cause of the damage  to their home.
The damage to the interior  of Mr and Mrs Rs home is clearly water damage.  They  have said 
that the box gutter at the front of their roof couldnt cope with the deluge of water from the 
storm and overflowed into the roof space and thereby down into the rest of their house. This 
seems plausible. 
I note that QICs assessor has suggested  that the gutter may have become overwhelmed 
because the drainage was inadequate  or blocked. That is possible and if that were the case, 
the dominant cause  of the damage to Mr and Mrs Rs home  would not be the storm, but 
rather the lack of maintenance of the drainage system. However, there  is no evidence to 
suggest this is the case. The photograph Mr R took of the roof and gutter doesnt show 
debris or problems with it. I also note that QIC didnt  look further  into this possibility when it 
had the opportunity. Given  that it is now many months since  the claim was made,  I dont 
think an assessment by QIC at the present time would give any new, relevant information  
about this. 
Overall, I consider that the claim Mr and Mrs R made was a valid one under the policy  cover  
and that it should succeed. QIC appears  to have already assessed the damage to the 
building and Mr and Mrs Rs contents  and it should now use that information to settle the 
claim.
Ref: DRN19276993Due to QIC unreasonably rejecting Mr and Mrs Rs claim, they have had to live in a 
damaged property for many months.  This will have been inconvenient for them at the very 
least. It is also clear that they have found living in these conditions and having  to argue with 
QIC distressing. I consider that it would be reasonable  for QIC to pay Mr and Mrs R £250  to 
compensate them for this inconvenience and distress.  
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and, in full and final settlement  of the complaint, 
QIC Europe Ltd should:
settle the claim for damage to their home and contents as a result of the storm; and 
pay Mr and Mrs R £250 for the inconvenience and distress it has caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1927699