K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about Amtrust Europe Limited. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mr and Mrs S held a buildings policy with Amtrust, and following observed movement in an
out building  they flagged  a potential claim.  On investigation the issue didnt appear to be an
insured issue, so no actual claim was made  or paid. However Amtrust following this refused
to provide ongoing subsidence cover at renewal,  so forcing Mr and Mrs S to go elsewhere
for cover, at greater expense. They didnt think this was fair so they complained  to us.
One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and thought that the insurer  should  reinstate
the cover. The insurer  disagreed, so the case has been passed  to me to review.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not currently minded to ask the insurer to reinstate cover,  Ill explain  why.
There has been some correspondence on the case concerning whether there was 
nondisclosure on the policy. I have seen the various statements here and considered  the
argument over whether  the consumers would  have had the engineering knowledge to
answer any of the proposal questions differently, but Im not sure this is really relevant.
There is no current claim to defeat, the question I have to answer is whether I should  require
the business to give cover for the future, and I dont think I can.
At renewal on an annual policy such as this the insurer is allowed, unless  the policy terms
say different,  to reassess the risk and decide what cover they wish to give and at what
premium. Whilst  the insurer should do so fairly, there is no compulsion on them  to grant
cover if they dont want to. Here  Amtrust  clearly  dont  want to give cover,  so I must look to
see if that is unfair, I dont  think it is.
Amtrust have seen new evidence concerning the building in question, from the potential
claim, and clearly dont  like what they see. Having read the reports  on the building  I can see
why, there  are certainly  elements of the report that suggest the building is not in tip top
condition, re cracks and bulging walls. I think this is enough to persuade me that Amtrust
arent being unfair here.
If there was a claim ongoing I would have to decide  if these  matters  were so obvious that
non-disclosure took place, but there  is no claim. Equally, if Amtrust had tried to cancel cover
midway through  a policy year I would have to consider whether that was fair on the non-
disclosure point, but again they have not. Refusing  cover at renewal is the prerogative of an 
insurer and I could  really  only overturn this is if it was clearly unfair. In view of the building
report I dont think it is.
I am currently minded  not to uphold this complaint.
Since my provisional decision the business have  nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs S have 
made three points. The cover was cancelled mid-tem, the out building  is in good  condition, 
and they have always been  honest  about the condition of the out building. 
Ref: DRN13351582my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking Mr and Mrs S comments in turn I have looked at their original complaint again,  and 
whilst this doesnt focus on the actual  date of withdrawal of cover I can see from the other 
papers that cover  was withdrawn prior to renewal. I apologise for this error  and will address 
that matter later. 
Ive also considered the condition of the building. I am afraid Im not convinced it is in the 
condition Mr and Mrs S say it is. I accept it is a very old building and some  distortion to the 
timbers and brickwork might be expected. But that isnt what  their policy proposal questions  
asked, they were much more generic. And having  looked at the photographs provided  in the 
papers I have, I dont  agree that it is obviously in good condition.  
As to the honesty of Mr and Mrs S Im not sure anyone has questioned this. The business 
clearly thinks the proposal questions  were answering incorrectly  but there is no current  
suggestion this was deliberately, rather a case of what  a reasonable condition of a building 
this age might look like and differing opinions on that. 
Returning to the cancellation date and my error.  If there was a claim that would have been 
deflected by this pre-renewal cancellation  then I would have to consider  if non-disclosure  
occurred. But as there is no current claim I still dont need to do this. I have to say from the 
evidence I have seen  I think  Mr and Mrs S might lose on this matter anyway, but as the 
policy is no longer  in force and no claim is pending I don't need  to make that decision. 
As I said in my provisional decision I cant make an insurer take on a risk at renewal that it 
has reasonable ground to refuse. And here I do think, from the reports and photographs that 
I have seen, that Amtrust  do have an arguable case for refusing to cover  the property going  
forward. 
my final decision
I make  no award against Amtrust Europe Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1335158