K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  dealt with 
their home insurance claim. They complain of delays, poor work and lack of communication. 
Therere not happy with the amount of compensation offered.
background
I attach a copy of the provisional decision I sent to the parties on 19 November 2019. In that 
decision I explained why I thought  Lloyds  should pay Mr and Mrs P a total of £1,500 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs P said that although  the amount was lower than they expected they would 
accept the decision.
Lloyds said they thought  the amount was high. But it, too, said it would accept  the decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my decision I confirm the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs P a total of £1,500 
compensation.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited must pay the total compensation within 28 days  of 
the date of which we tell it Mr and Mrs P accept my final decision. If it pays  later than this it 
must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision until the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 January 2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
If Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much it has 
taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one so that they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN19845232provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited dealt with their home 
insurance claim. They complain of delays, poor work and lack of communication. Therere not happy 
with the amount of compensation offered.
background
In April 2017  Mr and Mrs Ps home was damaged by fire. Extensive  rebuilding work was needed  and 
Mr and Mrs P had to move into temporary accommodation with their young child.
Mr and Mrs P say they were told the work  would take about six months but it took over a year.  They  
say they had to continually chase for help and that Mr P had to take time off work to sort things out. 
They say mistakes were  made which had to be rectified  and after they moved back in it was another 
four months  before  all the problems were dealt with. In the end they received a cash settlement from 
Lloyds so that they could get their own workmen in to put things right.
Lloyds upheld  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. It said the claim  hadnt been managed well and it agreed 
thered been unnecessary  delays and poor communication. Lloyds apologised and offered £800 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs P werent  happy  with that. They said they couldnt understand how Lloyds had reached 
the figure of £800 and that it wasnt nearly enough to compensate them for the considerable anxiety 
and stress theyd been caused.
Mr and Mrs P then brought their complaint here and it was looked  at by one of our investigators.  He 
thought Lloyds offer was fair. 
Mr and Mrs P asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps home was very badly  damaged by the fire. As well as extensive damage to the 
building there was smoke and water damage and the contents were  destroyed. Having seen the 
photographs of the damage I can only imagine how distressing this must  have been.
Of course Lloyds wasnt responsible for the fire and I have to bear in mind  that Mr and Mrs P would  
have been very distressed and anxious about the whole  thing, irrespective  of how their claim was 
dealt with.
But Lloyds has agreed that it didnt handle this case well. I think its tried to do the right thing in 
offering compensation  but my present view is that it hasnt gone quite far enough.
Ive looked at the timeline of events. Its not for me to say how long the work  should have taken. With 
such extensive  damage its not unusual  to find that more work needs to be done than originally 
thought, or that things take longer than first expected. 
But in this case Lloyds  agrees that there was unnecessary delay of at least  three months.  I think it 
was probably  more than that. In total Mr and Mrs P were  out of their house for around a year when  
they had been led to believe  the work would take around six months.
Ref: DRN19845233As well as this Lloyds agrees that it didnt manage the claim well. Mr and Mrs P werent  kept as well 
informed as they should  have been and they had to chase to find out what was happening.  Lloyds 
identified one period in particular between November  2017 and March  2018 when  Mr and Mrs P 
werent given any updates. 
When Mr and Mrs P did move  back  to the property they found there were numerous faults which 
needed to be rectified. At first Lloyds contractors tried to deal with these but further mistakes were 
made and things had to be redone. In the end Lloyds made a cash  payment so that Mr and Mrs P 
could have the work  finished themselves. All this took another  four months to sort out.
Ive thought about this carefully. Not only were  Mr and Mrs P and their young child kept out of their 
home longer than necessary, and over Christmas,  but they also had to deal with poor workmanship 
and the resulting problems after they moved back in.
I think  the uncertainty of not knowing what was happening, having  to chase for progress  and then 
deal with the continuing problems  will have added considerably to the anxiety and stress  they were  
already experiencing. 
Bearing all this in mind  Im currently minded to say that Lloyds should increase its offer of 
compensation to a total of £1,500.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs P a 
total of £1,500  compensation.
Ref: DRN1984523