K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let him 
reject a faulty car.
Background
In late December 2018 Mr P acquired a second  hand car at a cost of £31,899  funded by a 
hire purchase agreement.  It was three years old and had done 31,415 miles. A few days 
after purchase while Mr P was driving abroad  the diesel particulate filter (DPF) warning light 
came on. He was advised by the dealer  to drive the car at high speeds in sport  mode.
On 16 January Mr P notified VFS that he wished to reject the car. This was rejected  and 
VFS explained that the warning light was to notify  owners the DPF needed to be cleaned  
and this wasnt a fault. Later the car went into limp mode and was taken to the dealer  where  
the DPF was cleaned at no charge to Mr P.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Shortly  after Mr P identified further issues:
- The 12V socket was not working
- There  was trim missing  on the car
- Scratch on the bonnet
- Alignment  between the offside headlamp and bonnet adrift.
The dealer  repaired  the 12 V socket and the missing trim was replaced, but Mr P refused to 
have the other issues repaired as he wished  to reject the car. VFS offer Mr P £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill but did not accept rejection as it said the supplying  dealership should be 
given a chance to carry out repairs.
Mr P was concerned the car had been in an unreported  accident and noted some peeling  
paint. The adjudicator said that he didnt  have enough evidence  to say the car had been  in 
an accident and the peeling paint  discovered later didnt make  the car unsatisfactory  at the 
point of sale. Mr P also said that the deadlight convertor didnt work and our adjudicator 
suggested he raise  this with VFS so it could be investigated. Overall our adjudicator  said that 
repairs were the appropriate  remedy.
Mr P didnt agree and said the car had been  damaged and he had suffered multiple faults. 
He added that the front grill was now loose and this wasnt  covered under  the warranty and 
the flywheel was making a noise.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN15639252VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr P but I dont  consider  I can uphold  his complaint. I will explain 
why. The issue with the DPF wasnt a fault. The warning  light is let owner know  that the filter 
is sooty and needs to be cleaned. This is not a rare occurrence with diesel cars.  Therefore 
Mr P didnt have the right to reject in the first 30 days. 
Later he identified  a number of issues  which the dealer was entitled  to be allowed to make a 
repair. If it had refused to do so or if those repairs  had failed then rejection may have been 
possible. But Mr P only allowed  some repairs to be carried  out. 
I also have to take into account  that the car was over three  years  old and would have 
suffered wear and tear. Also some of the faults  appear to be due to normal  usage and could 
have been fixed  relatively easily.
I can see that Mr P thinks the car has been in an accident, but I am not so persuaded. The 
more recent  damage  could well have  been  caused long after the point of sale. To enable me 
to direct VFS to allow rejection I have  to be satisfied that it wasnt  fit for purpose at the point 
of sale. Nothing  in the evidence Mr P has supplied has allowed me to reach  that conclusion. 
The photographs of measurements of what is allegedly a gap between panels  do not make 
this clear and VFS dispute Mr Ps claim in this regard. And the noisy  flywheel appeared long 
after purchase.
Finally, I note Mr P has been able to make extensive  use of the car which does not support 
his claim that it isnt fit for purpose. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 25 
April 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1563925