K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs N was sold the policy when she took out a loan in 2002.  The cost of the PPI was added  
onto the loan as an up-front payment. This is called a single premium policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
I dont think Mrs Ns PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats  passed, there isnt still a recording of the phone  call where 
Mrs N was sold PPI. But Ive looked closely at the evidence from the time. I can see that the 
sellers call notes say Mrs N took out PPI. And Ive not seen any problems with Nationwides  
telephone sales  process from the time.  Mrs N was then sent a credit  agreement,  which 
described the PPI as optional, and set out its costs as separate to the costs  of the loan itself, 
rather than as something that was necessarily included. Mrs N signed the agreement to take 
out the loan with PPI. Overall, I think its most likely  that Nationwide made Mrs N aware  she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though  I can 
understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs N, so they didnt  have to check  if it was right for 
her. They did have to give Mrs N clear information  about the PPI, so she could decide for 
herself if it was right for her.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly  including the premium, the interest payable on 
the premium and the total cost. So it was clear how much the PPI would cost Mrs N if she 
kept the policy for its full term. And given how long the policy could have paid out for, if 
Mrs N made  a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit more than she paid for it. 
The PPI covered the full length  of the loan, so there  wasnt a gap in the insurance.  And if 
Mrs N wanted to cancel  it early, she could have done so without a penalty.
Lastly, its possible that Nationwide didnt point  out all the main  things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mrs N doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of those things.
Ref: DRN19924662my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1992466