K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  about  Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. 
Miss Ps sister has helped to bring this complaint. But for ease Ill refer to Miss Ps sisters 
comments as being those of Miss P.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Miss P was in an accident. She agreed  it was her fault but she wasn't happy that Advantage 
paid for the total loss of the other drivers  car and for a personal  injury claim. Advantage 
agreed it hadn't got everything  right and offered Miss P £75 compensation to address that.
Miss P felt that the other drivers claim was fraudulent and that Advantage hadn't  done 
enough to address that. She brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator felt that it would  have  been difficult for Advantage to dispute the personal 
injury claim. And he felt that the £75 compensation Advantage had offered for its poor 
service was reasonable in the circumstances.  So he didn't recommend it take any further 
action.
Miss P didn't agree  so the complaint's  been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Miss P accepts that she was at fault for the accident but she thinks  Advantage  should  have 
done more to investigate the other  drivers claimed  losses before paying  out on those. Thats  
because had those  sums  been reasonable she would have considered reimbursing  
Advantage for its outlay, known in the insurance  industry as buying back  the claim.  And in 
those circumstances  Advantage  would have recorded the claim as a non-fault rather than a 
fault claim,  which is likely  to have had less of an impact on Miss Ps insurance premiums in 
the future.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide: whether or not an accident  
happened; whos at fault for it; or the extent, if any, of the damage or injury  arising  from an 
accident, as ultimately  thats a matter for the courts.  And, like all motor  policies, Miss Ps 
policy allows  Advantage to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Miss Ps 
consent to decide how to settle a claim and it may make decisions that Miss P doesnt agree 
with. But Ill look to see its done  so reasonably.
I can see why Miss P isn't happy with Advantages decision  to consider paying for the total 
loss of the other drivers  car. That's  because the engineer who assessed the damage has 
referred to areas of damage which Miss P said were  pre-existing. But even  if Advantage had 
investigated that matter further and brought the repair costs  down,  I don't  think  it would have 
changed Miss Ps position. Thats because Advantages most significant outlay wasn't for the 
Ref: DRN12638382damage to the other drivers car but for the compensation for her personal  injury claim, 
which ran to £2,750.
Miss P said that the other driver showed no sign of injury at the scene of the accident. Also 
she doesn't think the other driver would have been injured in such  a low speed  and low 
impact incident. And she thinks  the personal  injury  claim is fraudulent.  So she believes 
Advantage should have  done  more to investigate and challenge it. 
I've considered Miss Ps complaint carefully, but Im aware that insurers regularly receive 
claims following low speed impacts that have resulted  in soft tissue injury that wasn't  
apparent at the time of the accident. And insurers like Advantage have  vast experience  in 
attempting to defend such claims. And it will be aware that even  following  low speed 
accidents like Miss P describes its not unusual for drivers to suffer soft tissue  injuries.  
Also, in this case the other driver  had supported her claim with a report from a suitably 
qualified doctor. That report says her injuries  were consistent with and resulting  from the 
accident. So in order to challenge that report Advantage would have needed to show  that 
the other driver had lied about  the extent of her injuries, or that the medical report was in 
some way flawed or arrived  at negligently.  And generally only another  medical professional 
could have made such a challenge. So it appears that Advantage decided it was better to 
settle the claim, which was supported by medical  evidence  that didn't have any obvious 
errors, rather  than to run the risk of incurring higher costs  investigating  it further only to end 
up in the same position of having to settle the other  drivers personal injury claim.  And in the 
circumstances I think its actions were  reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1263838