K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about margin call closures  applied to his GBP/USD and Platinum/USD 
Contracts for Differences (CFDs) positions  by OANDA Europe  Limited  (OEL)  on 
3 July 2018. He mainly  says the prices  that triggered the closures were inconsistent with the 
wider market; that OEL gave mixed  explanations  about the precise margin  requirements that 
were breached; and that OEL did not give him prior notice of the margin calls.
background
OEL has presented  account activity evidence  that shows the following:
Mr C used margin of £5,667 (rounded)  to open his Platinum/USD position  and was 
required to maintain margin, in his account, of £2,834 (rounded) to keep  it open.  The 
relevant margin rate was 20:1.
He used margin of £4,333 (rounded) to open  his GBP/USD position and was required 
to maintain margin, in his account, of £2,167 (rounded) to keep  it open.  The relevant 
margin rate was 30:1.
Together, he had to ensure total available margin in his account did not go below  
£5,001 (rounded)   that is, the sum of the above two margin  requirements.
When the margin calls were triggered,  total available margin  in his account was 
£4,559.16  below the total required account margin.
OEL disputes the complaint and its position is mainly as follows:
The margin calls that led to closure  of Mr Cs positions were legitimately triggered by 
breach of the margin requirement(s) in his account.  [as summarised above]
The agreed terms for the account permitted application of the margin call closures 
and the closures  were  executed consistently  with those terms.
The terms also gave it discretion to give prior notice of such  closures but it was not 
obliged to do so. Primary and sole responsibility  for the monitoring of Mr Cs 
execution only account (including  the management of margin  within  the account) 
belonged to him.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld  
 for broadly  the same  reasons as those given by OEL. Mr C disagreed and stressed his 
concern that the prices used to close his positions  were inconsistent with the wider  market.  
The investigator did not consider there  was evidence  of inconsistency  with the underlying 
markets and he noted that prices  quoted by comparator firms could not be relied upon as 
OEL was entitled  to set its prices/spreads independently. Mr C maintained  his point  about  
price inconsistency and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially, OEL does appear to have given conflicting  information to Mr C about the precise 
details of the margin call closures. However, thereafter and with direct reference to account 
activity evidence, it provided the information I summarised above. This appears to have 
addressed Mr Cs earlier concerns about the conflicting information he had received and he 
does not appear  to have maintained a dispute,  to date,  about the details  I have summarised. 
Ref: DRN16747492On balance and for the sake of clarity and completeness, I consider that the summary I 
provided above is an accurate reflection of what led to the margin  call closures and that it is 
supported by reliable  account activity evidence.
The next issue to address  is the price inconsistency  argument. With regards to Mr Cs 
comparisons with OELs competitors, I endorse the investigators observations. OEL is not 
required to mirror prices and/or spreads used by its competitors. It is entitled to use its own 
price feeds  as appears to have been  the case and as is mentioned in its Order  Execution 
Policy. In terms of the relevant underlying market prices, I note as follows:
Account activity evidence shows that the GBP/USD position  was closed at the fill 
price of 1.31298 and the Platinum/USD position  was closed at the fill price of 
798.591.
Historical spot inter-bank  price  data for GBP/USD on 3 July 2018 says prices  
reached a low of 1.3115  and a high of 1.3206  on that date. Historical price  data for 
Platinum/USD on the same date says prices reached a low of 798 and a high of 850.
I accept that evidence of the precise price  feed used by OEL for the fill prices applied  
to Mr Cs position, and at the time they were closed,  has not been available. 
However, the historical price data I have mentioned provide a reasonably reliable 
basis to consider, on balance, whether (or not) the fill prices  were inconsistent with 
the underlying  market  rates. Both fill prices are within the high/low ranges for the 
relevant markets and for the relevant  date.  Overall and on balance, I am not 
persuaded that the fill prices were  inconsistent with the underlying  market  prices.
As OEL says, the terms for Mr Cs account did not oblige it to give prior warning(s) of margin 
call closures and it was primarily and solely his responsibility, under those terms, to monitor 
activity within his account and to manage margin in his account.  Mr C says he does not 
recall agreeing to the terms but I do not consider it likely that his account  could have  been  
activated without  his confirmation of such agreement at the outset. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept  or reject my decision 
before 16 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1674749