K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the poor service  he received  from British  Gas Services Limited  when 
he contacted them about his policy renewal.
background
Mr S contacted British  Gas to discuss his policy renewal as it had increased in price. It took 
a while  to get through to the appropriate  team and despite requesting a call back on two 
occasions, he didnt  get a call. Mr S raised  a complaint and was told a manager  would  call 
him back,  but again he didnt hear from anyone.
British Gas acknowledged that it provided poor service as it failed to return  three calls to 
Mr S and offered  £50 compensation  for this. But Mr S didnt feel this adequately 
compensated him for the amount of time he spent calling British Gas.  So he brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that British  Gas had done  enough to resolve the complaint. He said 
£50 was in line with what our service  would award  for the poor service Mr S had 
experienced. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint  has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After receiving his renewal notice, Mr S called British Gas to discuss whether it could offer a 
more competitive price. He had some difficulty getting through due to the queue waiting 
times so he left a message for a call back.  Unfortunately this didnt happen. So he made a 
complaint.
When Mr S was able to speak to someone, they offered  him a discount on his policy renewal 
which he said he wanted to think about.  When he did call back, the adviser  he spoke to said 
they hadnt completed their training so they were unable  to assist with a renewal discount. It 
was agreed that another member of the team  would  call Mr S back  but again, this didnt 
happen.
Mr S was contacted by the customer care team  about his complaint. He asked to speak to a 
manager so a call back was arranged. But he didnt receive this call either.  
British Gas failed  to return Mr Ss calls on three occasions. I agree that this is below the 
standard of service  Id expect from a business, but Im pleased to see that British Gas has 
apologised for this and offered compensation to put things right. 
Mr S says he spent several  hours on the phone with British Gas and sent numerous  emails, 
so a payment  of £50 doesnt  really  reflect the trouble he was put to. He wanted  to discuss 
his policy  and review  the premium. He would have had to spend some time dealing  with this 
in any event, but it took longer than it should  have, and more  than once he was promised 
someone would call but that didnt happen.  That must have been very frustrating. But I dont 
think the impact was so severe, or went on so long, that a larger  payment would be justified.  
Ref: DRN11494592Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that £50 is a fair way to remedy  the trouble and 
upset caused.  So Im not asking British Gas to do anymore.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1149459