K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt told her how its protecting her account 
from fraud. She thinks the bank should have  written to her about this. Mrs P wants  some 
compensation to make  up for Barclays not writing to her.
background
Mrs P was the victim of fraud  on quite  a few occasions. Each time, Barclays refunded  Mrs P. 
But she was worried the bank wasnt doing  enough to protect  her account. Mrs P had 
expected Barclays  to write to her to reassure  her on this, particularly after shed been the 
victim of fraud  again   after Barclays had sent her a new debit card, which  she hadnt used.
Because Mrs P didnt  get anything specific from the bank she contacted us asking for 
compensation. So, one of our investigators  looked  into things for Mrs P.
He could see Barclays had refunded  Mrs P quickly each time shed been the victim of fraud. 
And it had taken action  to replace her debit card when it was clear itd been  compromised. 
The investigator noted the banks  final response  letter to Mrs P said that it monitored  the 
general activity on an account  not necessarily every individual  transaction. He thought this 
was as much information as hed expect Barclays to provide. So he didnt  ask the bank  to 
take any further action or pay Mrs P any compensation.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators view. She still felt she was due compensation. So 
her complaint has been passed to an ombudsman to review and issue  a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs P feels quite strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what  
shes said to both us and Barclays. And that isnt any great surprise. Shes  been  the victim of 
fraud on more than one occasion. So shes bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mrs P that I agree  with the investigator. I dont think Barclays 
needs to do anything further   or pay her any compensation. Indeed, theres  not a lot I can 
add to what the investigators  already  said to Mrs P. I think  he set out the position  quite  
clearly and thoroughly.
Having said that, its important I reassure Mrs P that Ive looked at her complaint afresh.
Barclays refunded the money that was spent using Mrs Ps old and new (replacement) debit 
card when she told the bank what had happened. And it did so quite quickly. Thats  the right 
thing for the bank  to do.
The information Ive seen from the banks  records indicates  it was Mrs Ps genuine  cards  
that were used each  time. So there  wouldnt be any reason  for Barclays  to think  the 
spending wasnt genuine and being  made by Mrs P.
Ref: DRN17129032Mrs P is clear  it wasnt her using the cards. Indeed  she hadnt  used  the new (replacement) 
one at all herself. That means somebody  else must  have been able to get hold of her cards 
at various times.
The fact that somebody  seems to have been  able to get hold of Mrs Ps cards  on more 
than one occasion  is bound to be a worry to her. But I dont  think  thats something Barclays  
can help with. Thats really down to Mrs P. Itd be sensible for Mrs P to review where and 
how she keeps her card  just to make sure nobody  can get hold of it in the future.
Its not for me to comment on whether any of Barclays particular systems are adequate.  But 
it wouldnt come  as a surprise if a bank doesnt monitor  every single transaction on an 
account. After all, there are many thousands every day.
What is important is that a bank  responds  quickly and properly when something goes wrong.  
And Im satisfied Barclays did so here. So I dont think  it needs  to do anything further  or 
pay Mrs P any compensation. I dont  think the banks done anything wrong.
I realise Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what  we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Barclays informally,  can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Mrs P any more  on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1712903