K821x#15complaint
Mrs F says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs F bought the PPI policy  when she applied online for a credit card in 2010.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Fs complaint  upheld it. Barclays disagreed  so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive considered what Barclays has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
This is because I dont think that the information  Barclays gave Mrs F about the exclusion for 
pre-existing medical conditions was as clear as it shouldve been. 
I say this because  Mrs F wouldve needed  to scroll  down  onscreen through  quite a 
substantial amount of small print to find the exclusion. And even if she had found it, Im not 
sure shed have appreciated how it applied to her circumstances.  
Ive carefully taken into account  that Barclays says it didnt advise Mrs F to take out PPI and 
its unlikely that this condition wouldve resulted in her being  off work for extended periods of 
time. So it doesnt think that she wouldve  been caught by this restriction. 
But Im not sure Mrs F wouldve wanted to pay for this policy  if Barclays  had given  her 
enough information to make a proper decision about  whether PPI was right for her. Mrs F 
has a condition that she might reasonably have expected could affect her being able to work.  
And I think its realistic to expect that she mightve  been unable to work for more  than 28 
days as a result. The policy exclusion meant she wouldnt be able to claim for this.  
On balance, I dont  think shed have taken out the policy if shed been properly informed. So 
I think Mrs F has lost out as a result  of Barclays failings in this case.
Ref: DRN14976982putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mrs F in the financial  position  shed  be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI. I understand that the policy is cancelled  already so:
A.Barclays Bank UK PLC should find out how much Mrs F wouldve owed  when she closed 
her credit  card if the policy  hadnt  been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should then refund the difference between  what Mrs F owed 
when she closed the account  and what she would have owed if she hadnt  had PPI.
B.If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  Bank  UK PLC can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her.
If  when Barclays Bank UK PLC works out what Mrs F would have owed each  month 
without PPI  Mrs F paid more than enough to clear  her balance, Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
should also pay simple  interest on the extra Mrs F paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point  when Mrs F wouldve owed Barclays  Bank  UK PLC something on 
her credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.Barclays Bank UK PLC should tell Mrs F what its done  to work out A and B.
Barclays Bank UK PLC can deduct  from the redress  shown above any commission  amount 
that it has already  repaid to Mrs F that relates  to this PPI sale. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mrs F as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1497698