K820x#14Complaint
Mr W has complained that Legal  and General Assurance Society  Limited (Legal and General) 
has cancelled a term assurance policy he took out in 2013.
Background
In 2013 Mr W and his wife took out individual term assurance policies with Legal and 
General. Mrs Ws policy included  critical  illness  cover.  The policies were sold by an 
independent financial  adviser, who Ill refer to as T.
In 2018 Mrs W was sadly diagnosed with cancer, and she made a claim for the critical illness 
benefit. Legal and General turned this down and cancelled Mrs Ws policy,  saying that shed  
misrepresented her height and weight in her application form. This was the subject of a 
separate complaint with our service. As Mr W had taken his policy out at the same  time, and 
had provided the answers for him and Mrs W to T, this prompted him to review  the answers 
he gave in his own application.
Mr W asked for information from his GP about  his height and weight around the time of the 
application in December 2012.  As this differed to the answers he gave in his application 
form, he told Legal and General about  this.
Legal and General looked at whether the new information wouldve  made  a difference to its 
decision to offer Mr W cover in 2013. After reviewing its underwriting criteria at the time, it 
cancelled Mr Ws policy and returned  the premiums hed paid. This was because it said it 
wouldnt have offered him any cover at all. It said a policy taken out by Mr W in 2003 
wouldnt be affected by this because he had undergone  a medical exam and Legal and 
General was satisfied  it had been  given the right information about Mr Ws health at the time.
Mr W complained.  He said hed told T the answers  hed given were  approximate. He didnt 
think the action  Legal and General was fair, particularly as it had his application from 2003  
and couldve  cross-referenced the answers hed given.  Legal and General didnt change its 
position so Mr W referred  his complaint to our service, as well as complaint about Ts 
involvement. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that the answer  Mr W gave  in 
respect of his height was incorrect. And as Legal and General had shown it wouldnt have 
offered him any cover if it had known his actual height and weight at the time, he thought the 
decision to cancel the policy and refund the premiums was fair. He didnt  think it was 
reasonable to expect  Legal and General to have  reviewed  his 2003 application as it was 
entitled to rely on the answers he gave  in 2013. He said Mr W had been warned about the 
consequences of providing inaccurate information.
Mr W asked for a final decision on the matter. He still thought Legal and General shouldve  
cross-referenced his earlier application or it shouldve asked for more information given his 
height to weight ratio was on the border of acceptance  by the underwriters.
Ref: DRN11693222My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed by this.
Mr W applied  for the policy in December 2012,  but the policy started  in January 2013. The 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosures & Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA) didnt come  into 
force until April 2013 and it isnt retrospective. So, it doesnt apply to my consideration of the 
complaint. And as the non-disclosure  wasnt discovered following  Mr W making  a claim, the 
ABI code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly also doesnt apply. 
The relevant  law at the time of application is the Marine Insurance  Act 1906. This says that the 
customer has a duty to disclose to the insurer all material  facts relevant to the acceptance and 
rating of the risk. Failure  to do so is known as non-disclosure. The Act says the insurer  can 
void the policy in these circumstances. While Ive taken this into account, I also have to make  
a decision based  on what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
I first need to decide whether or not Mr W made a non-disclosure with respect to his height 
and weight. In the application form submitted on 18 December 2012, Mr W said his height 
without shoes was 5ft 10in. He said his weight in indoor clothes was 20st 3lb.
Mr W was sent a copy of his application form on 16 January 2013. It asked him to check  the 
answers and return the checking your details form. The form contained the following 
warning:
If your answers or any other statements made about your application are not correct, 
incomplete, or are out of date we can refuse  any claim and cancel your policy  or policies.
Mr W signed the form, confirming the answers  were correct on 25 January 2013.  So, Im 
satisfied he had an opportunity to review  his answers and that he was warned of the 
consequences of providing inaccurate information.
In 2019 Mr W told Legal and General that his height shouldve been  recorded as 5ft 7in. It 
isnt clear what Mr Ws weight was at the time of the application, so I think  its fair to accept 
the answer he gave  in the application form as being  accurate.  However, Legal and General 
has demonstrated that if Mr W had told it his height  was actually 5ft 7in, it wouldnt have 
offered him any cover at all. As this information  affected the risk rating of the application, 
I think its fair to treat this as a non-disclosure.
Under the Marine Insurance Act 1906 Legal and General is entitled to cancel the policy and 
keep the premiums paid.  But in this case it has applied  the principles set out in CIDRA, 
cancelling the policy and returning the premiums Mr W has paid for the cover. So, it has 
effectively treated this as a careless non-disclosure. I think that classification is reasonable 
as it doesnt appear  Mr W had any intention of misleading Legal and General. 
Overall, I think Legal and Generals decision to cancel the policy and return the premiums 
paid was fair in the circumstances. This is because this outcome is more  favourable  to Mr W 
than the relevant law allows.  Its also what I would have recommended  as a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances.
Ref: DRN11693223Mr W has said Legal and General ought to have reviewed his 2003  application  when he 
submitted the further application  in 2012. But I dont think Legal and General couldve 
reasonably been expected to do this. The application was made almost  10 years later so the 
answers Mr W gave  in 2003 were no longer relevant.  I also think  it was made clear to Mr W 
that Legal and General was relying on the answers he gave  and wouldnt necessarily be 
seeking any further information from his doctor. 
Mr W has also suggested that Legal and General shouldve asked for more information 
because of his height to weight ratio and how this affected the underwriting  of his 
application. But Legal and General was happy to offer terms based on the information 
provided, and had made it clear that this needed to be accurate. So, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable that no further information was sought  at the point of application.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1169322