K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland  (BOI)  
unfairly increased the interest rate on their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs P have  a mortgage with BOI, which they took out in 2006.  The mortgage  was set 
up on an interest only basis  over a term of 10 years. The interest rate applicable at the time 
was a fixed rate of 5.55%,  which  ended  in July 2009. After  this, the interest  rate changed to 
the Standard Variable  Rate (SVR), which at the time was 6.59%.
In December 2007, Mr and Mrs P took out a further  advance for £30,000. This borrowing 
was taken out on a rate of 6.39% which ended in December 2010. Once this fixed rate 
expired, the rate switched  to the SVR.
BOI decided  to increase the SVR in 2012 from 2.99% to 3.99%. The interest rate dropped 
originally from 6.59%  in 2009 to 2.99% in 2012  due to the tracker margin  and Bank of 
England base rate falling. The interest rate increased again in September  2012 from 3.99% 
to 4.49%.  In 2012, BOI wrote to Mr and Mrs P giving them notice that they intended to 
increase the SVR.
  
Mr and Mrs P have  said they were not informed of the increase and that it was excessively 
high. Because  of this, they dispute the amount they are in arrears  by on the mortgage.  They  
also said they feel discriminated  against  by BOI because  they wouldnt be able to move their 
lending elsewhere.
BOI said that they were entitled to increase the SVR and they didnt agree that the arrears  
outstanding were incorrect. They said they offered Mr and Mrs P the chance to speak  to an 
independent broker,  free of charge, to see what options were available to them. 
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service  where it was looked  at by one of our 
investigators. He didnt  think that the complaint  should be upheld so Mr and Mrs P asked for 
an ombudsman to review  their complaint. So it has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs P, I agree  with what  the investigator has said for broadly  the same  reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mr and Mrs P have said and appreciate that this 
has caused them some  financial  difficulties. Increasing the SVR was an unusual move  by 
the bank. I can understand why it could be seen as unfair. So weve very carefully looked at 
whether the bank has acted fairly  and reasonably   including  whether it had the power to do 
what they did. Weve  also taken into account  the law, regulators rules  and the requirements  
of good industry  practice.
Ref: DRN16467002did the bank tell Mr and Mrs P that it might increase the rate?
Im satisfied that the bank took reasonable steps  to tell Mr and Mrs P that they could change 
the rate. They said that they might  do so on page four of the mortgage  offer attached to the 
mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs P accepted.
Ive also looked  at the further advance offer from December 2007 and I can see it contains 
the same  special condition.
Ive considered whether BOI acted in line with the terms and conditions when increasing  the 
SVR and whether  they had a valid reason for doing  so. I think  they did. I say this because:
-the mortgage offer sets out BOI could  increase  the SVR above the Bank of 
England Base Rate where they give notice
-the terms and conditions under section 6(g) say BOI could change the SVR for a 
number of reasons
-one of those  reasons  was to reflect changes  in our costs  of funds and to 
ensure the amount we receive from borrowers  will enable  us to maintain a 
prudent level of reserves and meet  any other regulatory requirements that apply 
to us
-section 6(h) says BOI will give Mr and Mrs P notice to change to the SVR in 
writing
The bank has given  us details of its financial position. Weve looked carefully at this 
information. Ive also taken account  of the old and new rules  the bank had to follow. Im 
satisfied that the banks  funding costs had gone up relative to the interest rates on these 
mortgages. Im also satisfied that the capital requirements placed on the bank  had changed 
 meaning they needed  to hold more capital.  This was a change to the requirements of their 
regulatory body.
After careful thought  and on balance, Im satisfied  there was a need for the bank to increase 
the margin to meet the requirements of any regulatory body and to ensure that it has 
sufficient resources to support  its business . So it was reasonable for them to increase the 
SVR, and there was a valid reason  to do so which was set out in the contract.
BOI wrote to Mr and Mrs P in 2012 to inform them of their intention to increase the SVR.  
Mr and Mrs P have  said they did not receive  this letter   so were not notified. Ive looked at 
the sample letter that would have been sent out to Mr and Mrs P and notes from BOI which  
show that the letter would have been  sent out to Mr and Mrs Ps home  address.
While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P have  said they didnt receive this letter,  Im satisfied 
that BOI sent it out. And I cant hold BOI responsible if the letter  wasnt received. 
Mr and Mrs P think the letter should  have been  sent by recorded delivery to ensure they had 
received it. They think  that measures should have been put in place to make sure they were 
notified. But BOI werent required  to do this and as Im satisfied they have done what they 
needed to do, its not fair to hold them responsible.
Ref: DRN16467003did the bank act fairly and reasonably?
The bank hasnt  applied  this increase to all of its customers. Some  of them  dont have the 
necessary term in their contracts. I can see how it could appear that some borrowers were 
paying more than others to make up the money the bank says it needed to raise on its 
mortgages. For the increase to be fair, they shouldnt go further than they needed to for the 
affected customers.
Ive looked at whether the bank  needed  to increase the rate by the amount they did. They  
say they needed to increase the rate on their mortgages to support their business   and they 
have given us evidence to show this. The new interest rate wasnt  out of line with other  rates 
available at the time, from other  lenders. Im also aware that the bank put up interest rates  
for some of their other customers.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs P were not subject to any early  repayment charges, and there 
was nothing in the mortgage agreement that would  have prevented them  from taking a 
different interest  rate with BOI. They could have  also moved  their mortgage to another 
lender, if they were  not happy with the changes  to the SVR.
Mr and Mrs P have  said they felt discriminated against by BOI because they wouldnt be 
able to move  their mortgage elsewhere,  due to their circumstances at the time. But if there  
were personal circumstances that stopped  Mr and Mrs P moving their mortgage elsewhere,  I 
cant hold BOI responsible for that. They did offer Mr and Mrs P the chance to speak to an 
independent broker  to see what options wouldve been available  to them at the time. They  
may wish to seek some independent advice now to see what  can be done to help them.
arrears
Ive looked at the mortgage statements that have  been provided up until June 2015 which is 
when the complaint was brought to our service. Up until that point, I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that the amount  of arrears that have been  calculated was incorrect.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P feel that the amount of arrears  should be lower because they 
dont agree with the increase in the SVR.  But as I havent found this increase  to be unfair, I 
cant agree  that the amount of arrears is incorrect.
Ive already found that the bank needed to make an increase. With that in mind,  I think  the 
banks actions were  reasonable. I havent  seen  anything  to suggest that the bank increased 
the rate to try to make  an unfair profit  and the evidence we have suggests they havent 
gone further than they needed  to. They made the change relying on the 2006 and 2007  
mortgage offer and the terms and conditions  issued at the time. In all circumstances, I dont 
think they acted  unfairly  or unreasonably.
I note that Mr and Mrs P are disputing the fact that interest has still been applied to their 
mortgage while we have been  investigating it. I cant see that we have ever told 
Mr and Mrs P that interest would be put on hold while we look into their concerns. It was only 
ever agreed that BOI would put legal action on hold  which  they did.
Ref: DRN16467004I note that Mr and Mrs P would like to come  to an arrangement to pay the mortgage off over 
the next 12 months. But this isnt something that BOI have yet considered. So as the 
mortgage is still outstanding, I suggest  that Mr and Mrs P keep an open dialogue with BOI to 
discuss options to pay the outstanding mortgage balance  and any proposals they wish to 
make.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1646700