K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited declined a claim for accidental 
damage to his floor and a laptop under his home insurance policy. 
background
Mr C took out home insurance with Lloyds on 2 July 2018. Two weeks  later he contacted 
Lloyds to tell it hed tripped over a tin of gloss paint which had spilled onto and damaged  the 
wooden floor. He said hed been carrying a laptop at the time and that hed dropped it and 
the screen no longer comes on. 
Lloyds sent a technician to inspect  the damage  to the floor.  In his report  the technician  said 
the paint mark  looks like it has been there  for a while it doesnt look fresh  but it did happen 
over a month ago. He also said hed spoken to Mr Cs sister who had said hed been 
glossing the skirting  boards when hed knocked  over a tray of gloss paint. She said he 
hadnt report the damage straight away as he was working away a lot. She didnt mention 
the laptop.  
Lloyds also instructed an agent  to inspect the laptop  but because  they were  given an 
incorrect password, they were unable to check when it had last been used.
Lloyds said there were discrepancies between what Mr C had said when hed made the 
claim and what his sister had told the technician, and therefore  it believed the flooring had 
been damaged  before  the policy was taken out. It also said that when he took out the policy  
Mr C had told it hed had two years continuous  insurance but when it checked, this wasnt 
the case. It said it had been unable to verify when the laptop had last been used and that 
there was no evidence the laptop was involved at all. Declining the claim, Lloyds told Mr C 
the policy would be cancelled from the date of the claim. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds about its decision  to decline the claim. He said his sister  hadnt 
been present  when  the accident had happened  and that hed never explained  to her the 
details of what had happened. He accepted the paint wasnt  fresh by the time the technician 
had attended, but he maintained  the accident  had happened on 25th July.
But Lloyds maintained its position.  It said its decision to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy was based  on the discrepancy  between his and his sisters account, the conclusion of 
the technician,  the fact itd been unable to confirm when the laptop was last used and the 
fact he had no cover from before he took out the policy.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. But our investigator  didnt  feel 
the complaint  should be upheld. She noted the damage had been inspected by an 
independent technician whod concluded it was over two weeks old. And that Mr C had 
refused to give his password for the laptop  to be checked. She also noted that Mr C hadnt 
had home  insurance  before the current policy. Overall she didnt  think  Lloyds decision to 
decline the claim was unreasonable  and that it was entitled to cancel the policy  in 
circumstances where  it felt hed given it false  information.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Hes submitted a signed statement from his sister to confirm her account of what  she said to 
the technician,  explaining she said the accident happened last month,  not a month ago. Hes 
commented the technician was instructed to assess the damage  to the floor to see if it could 
Ref: DRN10910622be repaired, not to make an assessment  to determine the timing  of the accident. And hes 
challenged whether a period of two weeks would make any difference  to how it presented  on 
the photographs.
Hes said his sister was there  to open the door and provide  access  for the technician to have  
a look at the damaged floor and did not have full knowledge of the facts  about what  
happened. And she didnt  mention  the laptop  as she thought  the technician was there  to 
inspect the floor. He maintains he called Lloyds the same day to tell it about  the damage and 
that he wants to protect his name  and reputation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
This policy provided cover for accidental damage. But the crux of this complaint is that 
Lloyds believes the incident happened  before the start of the policy, so it declined  the claim.  
Mr C maintains it happened on 25 July 2018,  the day he made the claim.
Lloyds technician said the paint mark looks like it has been there for a while. But this isnt 
necessarily inconsistent with Mr Cs account  because the inspection didnt happen until two 
weeks after the incident was reported.  There are two photographs showing the damaged 
floor, from which it seems clear  the accident  happened some time ago, and that theres been 
an attempted clean.  I dont know how much difference  there  would be in how it would  look if 
the accident had happened two weeks or a month  before  the inspection.  And other than  
Mr C s sisters  comment about it having happened a month  ago, the technician doesnt  give 
any other explanation as to why he thinks the damage has been there since before  the start 
of the policy. However, he accepted it happened over a month before the inspection and Mr 
C hasnt produced any evidence from someone  with similar experience  to contradict this.
Mr C contacted Lloyds  on 25 July and told it hed been walking from the kitchen to the 
workstation when he tripped over a tin of gloss paint that had been left there  by his partner. 
As he tripped, he dropped his laptop,  after which it would no longer switch on. The 
technician later recorded that Mr Cs sister told him Mr C was glossing the skirting boards 
when he knocked  over the tray of gloss. She said the damage had happened over a month 
ago and although hed cleaned it up straight away, he hadnt contacted Lloyds because hed 
been working away. Mr Cs sister  has since submitted  a signed statement confirming she 
told the technician  the paint wasnt fresh because the spillage happened last month and her 
brother had been working away  which had delayed the inspection. But she didnt say her 
brother hadnt  reported it straight away.
I accept there are discrepancies between the two accounts, and I think  Mr Cs sisters 
explanation about what she said is plausible. But the explanation was given in response  to 
Lloyds decision to decline the claim and Ive no reason to doubt  the accuracy of the 
technicians record of the conversation. I accept Mr Cs sister wasnt there when  the accident 
happened and that he probably  didnt give her detailed account. But these were  statements 
about issues that went directly to the timing of the accident and as such they are highly 
relevant and the technician was right to note them down.
Regarding the laptop, in its efforts to validate the claim, Lloyds wanted to know  when it was 
last used. This is because, if it hadnt  been  used for a while, that might  have  suggested the 
Ref: DRN10910623damage was pre-existing.  The fact Mr C gave it the wrong password meant it was unable to 
verify the claim, and in those circumstances,  notwithstanding Mr Cs concerns about privacy,  
Im satisfied its decision to decline the claim for accidental damage  to the laptop is fair.
Its always concerning  when someone makes a claim shortly after taking out insurance  after 
having previously  being uninsured. But coincidences  do happen and the fact of a claim 
having happened shortly after the start of a policy isnt, in itself,  evidence that its fraudulent.  
However, this, along with the technicians opinion, the discrepancies  with his and his sisters 
account and the fact he failed to disclose his password  to enable Lloyds to access his 
password means  Im satisfied that Lloyds decision to decline the claim was reasonable.
In addition to declining  the claim, Lloyds also took the decision to cancel the policy from the 
date of the claim. I understand Mr C is very concerned about the effect  of this but its 
something the policy permits Lloyds to do in these circumstances and Im satisfied its fair.
Finally Mr Cs complained about Lloyds handling  of the claim. Ive considered the customer  
service hes received throughout and Im satisfied it reached a satisfactory standard  
throughout. 
Overall, I understand Mr C will be disappointed but I dont uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1091062