K820x#14complaint
The executor of the estate of Mrs W, through a representative (Ms W) complains that 
Openwork Limited  didnt  ensure that the investment  plan Mrs W was advised to take out 
would fall outside of her estate, so that probate wasnt needed on her death, as she 
intended.
background
In 2009 Mrs W invested  £19,000 into the investment plan based on the advice she was 
given. Her two sons were  named as the lives assured under the plan,  so that it wouldve paid 
out if one of them had died. She was advised  to invest  a further £22,868  into the plan in 
2010 and then another £20,000  in 2012. Mrs W died in 2017  and a complaint was then 
made to Openwork about the investment plan forming part of Mrs Ws estate. 
Openwork didnt uphold the complaint. It said there  was no evidence  that Mrs Ws objective 
was to avoid probate.  It said its advisers  dont  give advice  on probate  matters and if Mrs W 
had raised this the adviser is likely to have told her to see a solicitor.
Openwork also pointed out that the amount  Mrs W had on deposit would have required that 
probate be obtained anyway.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He said that Mrs Ws objective was 
capital growth with no fixed time for investment and that leaving the money in a bank 
account wouldnt have  achieved this.
The investigator said that there is no reference  to probate  in any of the meetings with the 
adviser in 2009,  2010 or 2012 and that if this was Mrs Ws objective he wouldve  expected 
her to question it not being mentioned in any of the paperwork. He said that it seemed the 
investment had been set up in line with the documented objectives. And Mrs W couldve 
invested through a trust but she wouldnt have had as much control over her investment and 
that if this ( the plan falling out of her estate  on death) was her main requirement  he thought 
the adviser wouldve suggested  this.
The investigator said that on balance it was likely that probate was always going to be 
needed and that the lack of any reference  to this within the documents - and the only 
reference to transfer  being where  there was joint ownership - wouldve led Mrs W to question  
the advice.
Ms W didnt  agree with the investigator. She made  the following points:
The crux of the matter  is what happened in 2009  not in subsequent meetings as Mrs 
W wouldve  relied  on what she was told at the time of the initial meeting.
The purpose of anyone investing is to make a return  on their investment so leaving 
the money in the bank as the investigator referred  to wasnt  an option.
This was the only one of her investments that required probate.
The fact the investment  couldve  been held jointly  and passed  to the joint owner on 
her death is what she was expecting and there is no evidence  this was discussed 
and that she didnt want this to happen.
The fact there was no fixed term supports the argument that she wanted  a long term 
investment that would pass to her sons on her death.
Ref: DRN10552272Why would she have  said this was her intention if she didnt genuinely believe  this 
was what was going to happen.
She isnt sure what the relevance is of Mrs W being able to access  the money at any 
time.
If Mrs W had been  told the investment wouldnt transfer to her sons on her death she 
wouldve looked at other options  such as a trust or having  the investment in joint 
names.
The investigator said Mrs W wanted a cautious  investment which  demonstrates her 
approach.
She doesnt know how the investigator has concluded that probate was always going  
to be needed  given the other  parts of her estate didnt require this.
There is nothing in the extracts referred  to by the investigator which shows  the 
adviser explained how the investment worked.
As part of discussing  the investment she had been told it would pass to her sons  in 
such a way she was led to believe she didnt need to do anything.
The investigator hadnt considered the basic issue which is that Mrs W was assured 
that her money would pass to her sons on her death.
As the estate hasnt  agreed with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ms Ws, and the familys, strong  feelings and belief that the investment plan 
recommended by the adviser didnt do what Mrs W expected it to do on her death  namely  
pass to her two sons outside  of her estate. 
But although  I accept  that Mrs W may have  believed that is what would happen I have  to 
make my findings and decision  on a balance of probabilities  what  is more likely than not  
based on the evidence that is available. With that in mind,  whilst I acknowledge that Mrs W 
may have  believed the investment would  pass to her sons  on her death, I have been given 
no evidence which supports that this was her objective or that she was led to believe by the 
adviser that this would happen.
The fact find and suitability report (Investment Recommendation  Summary) I have seen  from 
2009 shows that her objective was greater capital growth than deposits over time.  There is 
nothing in any of the documents I have  seen that shows that Mrs W discussed her 
investment not being part of her estate  on her death  and instead going  directly to her sons.
The suitability report actually states  that on death the value of her investment will form part 
of her estate, the opposite  of what Ms W says Mrs W wanted. The fact that this statement 
was in reference to Inheritance Tax (IHT) doesnt mean it didnt  make  clear the investment 
plan would form part of her estate and wouldnt simply go to her sons  as she thought.
In addition to the documents  not supporting Mrs W having discussed the plan falling outside 
her estate on death I note Ms W has also stated  that it is clear that Mrs W didnt say to the 
adviser here is some money, how do I not have to go to probate.  So she seems to accept  
that Mrs W didnt  specifically  mention her intentions to the adviser.
Ref: DRN10552273I wouldnt have expected the adviser to raise  this point himself if Mrs W didnt  refer to it. It 
isnt uncommon  for a financial adviser to advise  how a customer can move money out of 
their estate to reduce  a potential IHT liability.  But this wasnt an issue for Mrs W, and moving  
money out of an estate  to avoid the cost of probate isnt something I would expect a financial 
adviser to discuss with a customer. 
I note that Ms W has said the adviser  didnt discuss making the investment plan a joint one. 
But there was no identified objective that wouldve led the adviser to suggest this.
 
If I accept that Mrs W believed the plan would pass to her sons  on her death  and not through  
her estate then I think it is clear she misunderstood what would happen  to the plan on her 
death. As to how that misunderstanding  came  about, the only link between  Mrs Ws sons  
and the plan is them being  named as the lives assured under the plan  I note in this respect 
that Mrs W couldnt be a life assured as there was an age restriction  and she was too old. 
Given this it seems likely  she misunderstood  what was meant  by her sons being  named as 
the lives assured in the plan. I dont think any misunderstanding she had about that is likely 
to be the result of anything the adviser told her. And I dont accept what  Ms W has said 
about Mrs W being assured the investment would pass to her sons on her death  except 
by way her will made in 2010 where they are named as beneficiaries.
I think the adviser will have been well aware of how the plan worked and wouldve explained 
this to Mrs W. I think it is very unlikely that the adviser wouldve told her, or inferred in some  
way, that the plan would go to her sons on her death  outside  of her will given it is clear that 
isnt what the plan was going to do - and which  wouldve  been  contrary  to what  he stated in 
the suitability report about the plan going  into her estate on her death. This is something  the 
adviser is very unlikely  to have got wrong.
Ms W has made  a number of points  which I will try and address briefly.  I agree with Ms W 
that the crux of the matter is what happened in 2009  not when Mrs W invested  further  money 
in 2010 and 2012. But this doesnt change my finding that there was no discussion in 2009 
about the plan passing to Mrs Ws sons and that she wasnt misled by the adviser about 
what would  happen  on her death.
I note Ms W has said that leaving the money  in Mrs Ws bank account wasnt  an option  as 
the investigator had referred to. But he was simply addressing a point made by Ms W when 
she first referred the complaint to us. So it is clear, Im satisfied Mrs W did want  to invest  and 
leaving the money in her bank account  wasnt a suitable  alternative.
 
Ms W suggests that the fact Mrs W wanted a cautious investment supports what  her 
approach was. But wanting a cautious  investment is nothing to do with whether the 
investment plan would form part of her estate. This is a reference to the investment risk she 
was willing  to take.
Ms W has also referred to the adviser saying that probate was always going to be needed, 
when Mrs W has put her other investments outside of her estate. But as at the time of advice 
in 2009 Mrs W had a total of £81,000 in deposit  based accounts. So regardless of what  
happened to the investment plan probate wouldve been required for the balance  of her 
money at that time.
In summary,  there is no evidence that Mrs W told the adviser that her objective was for the 
money she invested to fall outside  of her estate on her death or that the adviser misled  her 
Ref: DRN10552274about this happening. The investment plan recommended in 2009  was a suitable  
recommendation in the circumstances and the adviser wasnt required to advise that this be 
placed in trust or held jointly as there was no identified objective that necessitated this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W as executor 
of the estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1055227