K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) rejected a claim he made to them  under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75).
background
In February 2019  Mr O bought a used car for his daughter using his credit  card.  He 
subsequently found a cheaper, identical,  model and he contacted  the supplier to invoke their 
price promise and get the difference  in price back.
The supplier  said the cars were  dissimilar  so Mr O made a claim to MBNA. He said that 
section 75 enabled  him to make a like claim against the provider  of credit as he had against 
the supplier. He said thered been a breach of contract.
MBNA rejected Mr Os claim. They said the agreement with the supplier was with Mr Os 
daughter and not him. In those circumstances they said there  wasnt the necessary 
relationship between Mr O (the debtor); the supplier  and themselves (the creditors).  They  
said this relationship was essential for there to be a valid section 75 claim.
So Mr O referred  his complaint to this service but our investigator  explained  that for the 
same reasons he could  not say MBNA had been  unreasonable He said it was Mr Os 
daughter who was listed on the contract with the supplier and with whom  they had an 
agreement. So he didnt think the necessary debtor, creditor, supplier link had been  
demonstrated.
Mr O disagreed with the investigator. He insisted that there  had been  a breach of contract as 
the supplier had failed to comply with its price promise.  He said he had paid for the car using  
his credit card because of the protection it offered him and he therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr O but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr O made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN15080702When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. But for the creditor, MBNA  in this case, to have  that liability  it needs to have a 
relevant relationship with the supplier  of the goods and here MBNA argues that it hasnt,  as 
the agreement  with the supplier is with Mr Os daughter and not with Mr O.
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So section 75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant. But MBNA  would  not be able to sue the merchant (the 
supplier) here as they dont have a relationship with it. 
So, Im afraid, Mr Os claim  for breach of contract doesnt lie in a section 75 claim against  
MBNA. I dont think they were unfair  when  rejecting  his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1508070