K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt allow  him to make 
payments to his loan account and then registered a default against him. 
background
Mr S had a current account with RBS and from 2012  to 2018 he had an arranged  overdraft 
of £2,500. Mr S also had a loan account  with RBS. 
In June 2018 Mr S brought a complaint to this service. He said he had tried to make  
payments to his RBS accounts in March,  April and May but the bank wouldnt accept 
payment. Mr S said he was issued  a default letter in April and he called RBS.  He said he 
was told he couldnt  make payments because he had an ongoing complaint with this service. 
RBS gave its early consent for us to look into Mr Ss complaint. 
The investigator didnt  think RBS had done  anything wrong. She acknowledged that Mr S 
had spoken with RBS on a few occasions  during this time about a number of issues but he 
hadnt offered  to make a payment. She noted  that Mr S had been in arrears  with his 
accounts. Mr S wasnt happy and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S but having  done  so I wont be asking RBS to do anything further. 
Ive looked over the statements for each of Mr Ss accounts and correspondence sent to him 
regarding his overdraft  and loan arrears. Ive also listened to two phone calls provided by 
RBS. Mr S has been using the full facility of the overdraft on his current  account since 2014  
and the account has rarely been in credit. RBS has said Mr Ss accounts were  referred  to 
the Debt Management Operations (DMO) in 2014  in order to help Mr S manage them.  I can 
see that as far back as 2014 RBS were  concerned about Mr Ss ability to manage his 
overdraft.
Mr S took a loan out in 2012 for £5000. Up until January 2017 Mr S made regular payments 
into the loan account but from February 2017 the payments were reversed every month and 
the account went into arrears.
I note that in February 2018 there were deposits of £1,159.66 into the loan account and 
£1,224.86 to the current account. RBS has explained that these credits  are refunds of 
interest accrued  during  a period when  RBS failed to issue statements. As both accounts  
were with the DMO and no interest  and charges  were being applied, the refunds reduced the 
overall debt. This meant that the loan account was still in arrears as Mr S had failed to make  
a payment in a year. I can see that RBS sent letters and texts to Mr S when  the account 
went into arrears  inviting  him to engage  with the bank.  It appears Mr S didnt  respond  to the 
communication in 2017.
Looking at the way Mr S has managed  his accounts  Im satisfied that at this stage  it was 
reasonable for RBS to take steps  to recover the money. RBS issued a default  on 4 April 
Ref: DRN190807222018 and a formal demand on 7 May. The accounts were taken on by the recoveries team  
on 16 May.
Mr S said he contacted RBS several  times and tried to make  payments but was told due to 
an ongoing complaint with this service that it wouldnt be possible. In April Mr S called and 
discussed a number of issues. Ive listened to this call. Mr S does appear to be worried 
about a number of issues including the receipt  of the default  notice. He did talk to the 
operator about setting up a payment plan but he didnt offer to make  a payment. And at no 
point did the operator refuse to take a payment or say they couldnt take a payment. Mr S did 
have a different  complaint with this service but it was on an unrelated  matter.  The operator 
told Mr S he would call back with answers  to Mr Ss queries and I can see that call didnt  
happen.
A month later Mr S called again and Ive also listened to this call. Throughout the call Mr S 
said he cant do much  more if someone doesnt call him back.  He also said hes not shying 
away from putting a payment  plan in place and asked the bank to come back with some  
positive news. But Mr S did not offer to make  a payment.
I do understand that Mr S was concerned about his accounts during these calls. But Im 
satisfied he didnt offer to make any payments or reduce  his arrears. In both calls Mr S put 
the responsibility on the bank to provide a solution despite the fact at this stage Mr S had 
been in arrears for 16 months and he had received the formal  demand letter. 
Mr S said he also called in February  and March but cant remember exactly  which  date. Im 
not disputing that he did but there  is no evidence of these  calls in the banks records. Given  
that payments  made to the loan account between  February 17 and April 18 were all returned  
and RBS had tried to contact him several  times  in 2017 Im satisfied he wouldve known his 
account was in arrears  and action needed to be taken prior to the notice of default and his 
call to the bank  in April. 
I realise this isnt the news  Mr S wanted but Im satisfied RBS hasnt  done  anything wrong so 
I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1908072