K820x#14The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained  what this means for Miss Cs complaint.      
summary of complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2005  in connection with a loan. 
background to complaint
Miss C complained to this Service making  a number  of complaints including   but not limited  
to the following:  she said the cancellation  terms hadnt been explained to her properly and 
that she had other means she could have relied  on such  that she had no need of the policy.  
Lloyds objected to the complaint being considered by us because  it was made outside the 
time limits which apply. Our adjudicator concluded that Lloydss objection was valid and that 
we couldnt deal with Miss Cs complaint.  Through her representative, Miss C disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be looked at again.
Miss C was invited to send any further  details she wanted us to consider which might explain 
why she made her complaint out of time.  
my findings
The rules  under which I work provide  that, where a business doesnt consent, I cant  
consider a complaint which is made  more  than six years from the date of the event 
complained of, or if later, made more than three  years from the date the complainant was 
aware, or ought  reasonably to have been  aware, that he had cause for complaint. A copy of 
Dispute Resolution (DISP)  rule 2.8.2R can be provided on request or can be found online in 
the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
Miss C says the PPI was mis-sold in 2005   so this is the event complained of for the 
purposes of the six year part of the rule. But Miss C first complained  to Lloyds in 2019 and 
this was well outside the six year time limit which  I have to apply. So Im satisfied Miss C 
didnt complain within six years of the event complained of.
So I went on to look at whether Miss C complained  within three years of when she was 
aware, or ought  reasonably to have become aware, that she had cause for complaint about 
the PPI sale.
In this case, Lloyds  has provided us with a series of letters  that addressed the issue  of 
potential failings in its sale of PPI to Miss C. In particular the letters reference issues  that 
may have  pertained to cancellation issues and the general suitability of the product to 
Miss C. Lloyds  says that Miss C must  have  been aware that she had a policy that may have  
been miss-sold to her at that time.  So, Lloyds concludes Miss C had three years from 2013 
to make her complaint and as they didnt do so  she made  her complaint out of time. 
The letter dated  23 July 2013 from Lloyds to Miss C said, 
WHY  ARE  WE WRITING TO YOU?
Ref: DRN11420932As you may know the Financial Conduct  Authori ty (FCA), previ ously known as the 
FSA, has expre ssed  general  concern  about  sales of Payment Protecti on Insurance  
(PPI) .
In light of this, we have  condu cted a revie w of our sales processes. We have found 
that some custom ers who took out PPI polici es similar to yours suffered  a finan cial 
loss, which was very often not trivial.
The main cause of any financial loss suffered  that we have identifi ed for customers 
similar to you is wher e they have refinanced their loan. Although, we have not revie wed 
the sale of your particular PPI policies,  we are aware that you have  refina nced loans 
early. This may mean  that one or more of your PPI policies noted above were
mis-sold, as they may not have  been  suitab le for you.
In addition to this main concern this letter also details other  concerns we have 
identifi ed. It shou ld be noted that despite our main concern  being custom ers who have 
refinanced their loans , other  less common concerns have been identified which could 
affect the suitabi lity of your PPI policy. These will be covered within this letter  as well. 
This letter will also explai n how you can contact us if you believe our concern  relates to 
one or more of your partic ular sales. Please note you shoul d also contact us if you 
have other  concer ns with the sale of your PPI policies not addressed  in this letter that 
you believe may have led to you suffering a financial  loss
FURTHER  GUIDANCE
If you would like to speak  with someo ne  regarding this letter,  please contact our 
dedicated team on 0845 366 2234 . Lines  are open from Sam to 6pm, Monday to Friday.
If you decide  to raise a complai nt with us as a resul t of the fallings mention ed  In this 
letter you should do so prom ptly as, we may dismiss your compl aint without 
consideri ng  Its merits, and object  to the Financ ial Ombudsm an  Servi ce consider ing  
It If It Is received more  than:
   Six years from the date you bought your PPI
Or, If later;
   Three years from when you shoul d have reasonably  been aware of any potential 
Issues
You may or may not already be aware of common fallings surro unding the sale of PPI 
policies. This letter has broug ht to your attention our detail ed concerns surro unding 
the way PPI polici es similar to yours  were sold.
You may wish to visit the Financial Ombuds man Servi ces websi te which Includes  a 
guide on what  to consider  when deciding what to do about compl aints  on PPI sales.  
Their addre ss Is www .flnanclal -ombudsman.org.u k.... Alternati vely, you may seek 
Independ ent advice from your finan cial adviser If you have one, or an advice service
like the Citizens Advice Bure au.
Lloyds sent letters that were very similar  in content on 11 September  2013  and 27 January 
2014. 
 
Ref: DRN11420933So, I am persuaded that when Miss C received this letter dated 23 July 2013  from Lloyds,  
this was enough to make her aware   or she ought  reasonably to have  become  aware  - she 
had cause for complaint because she had been sold something that may not have  been  
suitable for her. 
So under the rules,  Im persuaded the three  year period for Miss C to take her complaint to 
the Lloyds started  in 2013 and wouldve ended in 2016. But as Miss C didnt complain  to the 
Lloyds until 2019,  Im satisfied the complaint is out of time under  the three year part of the 
rule. Im allowed to give her the benefit  of the longer six year time limit. So overall, Im 
satisfied Miss C should have complained in 2013. However, as she didnt complain  until 
2019, Im satisfied the complaint was still made  out of time.
Im also allowed to investigate complaints which  were made outside the time limits where Im 
satisfied this happened as a result  of exceptional circumstances. We invited Miss C to send 
in further details. Miss C said,
I do not dispute that Lloyds Bank PLC sent me a letter dated 14th March 2014,1
cant recollect its receipt specifically, but unless it was a recorded delivery, I cannot 
remember it. I  am attaching a copy of the letter and would  contend  that the content of the 
letter was intrusive   and was asking for a significant  level of personal information and at 
that time I considered it to be a scam, and consequently ignored it.
All the letters I have  seen  have been  addressed correctly. And Miss C is not disputing 
receipt of the letters from Lloyds. Miss C has acknowledged having read one of the letters  at 
the time and chose  to ignore it as she considered that Lloyds were  asking  for too much  
information. Miss C could have chosen to contact Lloyds to see if less information  could start 
her complaint. Instead she chose to ignore the letter. And for the reasons I gave above,  Im 
satisfied that at the time Miss C received  the letters she knew,  or ought  reasonably  to have  
been aware, that something couldve gone wrong with the sale of her PPI policy. So, given 
that Miss C hasnt provided  anything else for me to consider  about  this, Im not persuaded 
this is an exceptional  circumstance.  
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied this complaint was made outside both time 
limits which I have  to apply and there are no exceptional circumstances for me to consider.  
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN11420934my decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that our Service doesnt  have the powers to 
investigate this complaint  as it was referred  to us after the permitted time period and no 
exceptional circumstances  apply.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1142093