K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) agent damaged  her cars engine when it 
attended her under  her roadside  assistance policy. She wants  UKI to pay for the repairs and 
compensation for her stress and inconvenience. 
background
Mrs Ps car broke down and UKIs agent attended. The car was recovered to Mrs Ps home 
and the agent drove  it from the transporter onto her driveway, removed a part and tried to 
start the car again.  The next day, another agent attended and tried to start the car without  
success. It was found that the timing  belt had broken and the engine  damaged.  Mrs P 
thought this had been caused by UKIs agents trying to start the car. She produced  an expert  
engineers report  that she said supported her view.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
engineers report  said that the car couldnt  have been driven  with a broken timing  belt. So 
the investigator thought it could have been  broken between when it was returned  to Mrs Ps 
driveway and the next day. He thought  the expert  report  didnt say categorically that UKIs 
agent was responsible for the damage. So he couldnt say that UKI was responsible  for the 
damage.
Mrs P replied that the agent who had returned her car had then worked under the bonnet 
and removed a partially shredded alternator  belt. He then tried to start the car without  
success and this had damaged the engine. The engineers report  said that the car shouldnt  
have been started  without  further  inspection. Mrs P asked  for her complaint to be reviewed, 
so its come to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs P 
and to UKI on 3 April 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I could understand  that Mrs P felt frustrated that after two months her complaint hadnt  been 
resolved. I could see that shed provided  further information to support her account and she 
paid £199 for an expert engineers report. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
repairs.
Mrs P provided a detailed  account of the breakdown. I noted that she said there  was a 
strange noise and a burning smell. She said she stopped driving as she didnt want  to cause 
any further damage. Her car was pulled onto the recovery  truck. The next time it was driven  
was when UKIs agent drove it off the truck and onto her driveway.  
Ref: DRN14664602Mrs P said the agent looked under the bonnet and removed the shredded  alternator belt. 
She said the agent then tried to start the car unsuccessfully and she heard clatter.  The next 
day, another agent also tried to start the car without success. Mrs Ps garage said the 
alternator belt was damaged, but so was the timing belt. This had jammed  and fused  and the 
engine had to be replaced as the valves were damaged.
Mrs P said her garage told her that the car couldnt  be driven with the timing belt jammed.  
She thought  this meant that the damage was caused either  after the agent drove the car or 
by him removing the alternator belt. Mrs P said further damage had been  caused by the 
agents repeatedly  trying  to start the car. She thought the agents should have inspected  the 
engine before attempting to start the car. 
UKI said its internal  engineer had reviewed  the garage report and photos  provided by Mrs P. 
He said the extensive internal damage would have been caused  by the engine turning at 
high revolutions  per minute and not by being  driven by its agent.  UKIs agent, also an 
engineer, thought the damage had been  caused  by an underlying problem not by its actions. 
Mrs P then obtained an independent  report from an expert engineer. I thought this was a 
reasonable step as its what Id recommend in the case  of such  disputes. The engineer was 
able to look at the old engine which the garage  had retained.  Mrs P said she had heard 
strange noises and smelled smoke when she first broke down. He said this would have been 
caused by the damaged alternator belt. 
The engineer said the car shouldnt have been started after recovery  until a further 
inspection had been made.  He also said that the car wouldnt start if the timing  belt was 
broken. So the timing  belt must have been  intact  when the car was driven onto the driveway. 
The agent  had then found and removed the damaged alternator belt. But then the car 
wouldnt start. The agent who attended  the next day to recover the car to a garage also tried 
to start the car repeatedly. The engineer said attempting to start the car would have  caused  
damage to the engine.  
So I thought  Mrs P was correct in saying that the timing belt must have snapped after the car 
was driven onto her driveway. I didnt see evidence to show  what  may have caused  this to 
happen. So I couldnt say that UKI was responsible  for the broken timing belt. 
But UKIs agents then repeatedly tried to start the car. I thought the independent  engineering 
evidence showed  that this caused the internal damage to the engine.  
UKI didnt  comment on the independent  report Mrs P provided. It relied on a desktop review 
of a report from Mrs Ps garage  and photographs of the engine. I could see that Mrs P kept 
UKI up to date with the garages  inspection  of her car and it had opportunity to make  its own 
inspection and consider the independent engineers view.  
So I couldnt  say UKI had justified its decision not to pay for the repairs  to Mrs Ps car. Mrs P 
had already said that she would pay for the replacement alternator  belt. I thought this was 
fair and reasonable as its not covered by her policy. I couldnt  say that UKI was responsible 
for the broken timing  belt. So I didnt think UKI needed to pay for this. 
Ref: DRN14664603But, as I said above, based on the expert  evidence provided by Mrs P, which  I preferred to 
UKIs or Mrs Ps garage because it was provided  by an independent engineer, UKI restarting 
the car caused  damage to the engine. So I thought UKI should  be responsible for that 
damage. Mrs P said the garage  advised her that replacing the cars engine  was the most 
cost-effective option. So I thought Mrs P reasonably mitigated her losses  by doing this. 
For these reasons, I thought it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to reimburse  
Mrs P for the replacement  costs of the engine and for the cost of the independent engineers 
report. Mrs P had the trouble  of organising this and the inconvenience  of the repairs.  I 
thought UKI should pay her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused  her. 
Subject to any further representations by Mrs P or UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P replied that she accepted my provisional  decision. UKI replied that it thought  the onus 
was on Mrs P to prove the allegation  that it had caused damage to her car. It said it thought  
the car had been damaged when it first broke down. And it offered to make a contribution  
towards the cost of replacing the engine and to reimburse Mrs P for the independent 
engineers report.
I think Ive already considered the points  made  by UKI. I cant  see that its provided any 
further evidence  for me to consider. So I can see no reason not to maintain my provisional 
decision. UKI offered to make a contribution towards Mrs Ps costs. But I dont  think this 
goes far enough  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
1.Refund Mrs P for the cost of the replacement of her cars engine upon provision of 
reasonable evidence of this (an invoice from her garage).
2.Refund Mrs P £199 for the cost of the independent engineers report.
3.Pay Mrs P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1466460