K820x#14complaint
Miss T says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss T bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ts complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Miss T says she didnt know the PPI had been added  to her account,  and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it. Ive noted  everything Miss T has said.  The difficulty  I 
have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Miss T and the sales person 
when the policy  was sold. Im also mindful that these  events happened many years  
ago. But I can see that Miss T did sign the PPI section of the store  card application 
form to say that she wanted the cover. 
Without anything  else to support what Miss T has told me, I havent  been able to safely 
conclude that she wasnt made aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss T so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to ask about  any employer benefits Miss T might have 
been entitled to.  
 Its possible the information FICL gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Miss T would have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover, and the policy  had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped her buying  it.
Ref: DRN12123022my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1212302