K820x#14complaint
Mr C is complaining about the amount  My Policy Ltd is asking him to pay after he cancelled  
his car insurance policy. 
background
In August  2018  Mr C took out an annual  car insurance policy through My Policy Ltd  a 
broker. Under the terms of the policy Mr C was required to have a telematics box installed.  In 
October 2018 Mr C asked My Policy  Ltd to cancel the policy.  It did so, but it said he owed 
£417.22. Mr C didnt  think this was fair and queried why he owed anything.
My Policy  Ltd said that the policy allowed him to drive up to 2,000 miles over the policy term, 
but hed already driven around  1,200 miles. So it said the insurer  provided  a refund on a pro-
rata basis   based on the number of miles travelled  against the miles allowed. It said the 
insurer gave a refund of £218.02, which was used to reduce the amount he still owed  on the 
finance (£560.24). It also said that it charged a £75 cancellation fee in line with the terms of 
the contract.
Mr C still didnt think it was fair My Policy  Ltd was asking him to pay money. He said he 
wasnt aware hed taken out finance. And he thought  My Policy Ltd was harassing him in 
pursuing him for the money. Finally, he said he thought My Policy  Ltd was breaching  his 
privacy by monitoring where he was driving.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought My Policy Ltd had explained that 
Mr C was paying the annual premium by taking out a finance agreement. She also thought 
that the amount Mr C was required to pay following the policys cancellation was fair and in 
line with the terms  of the contract. So she was satisfied Mr C owed  the money My Policy Ltd 
said he did. And she didnt think it had acted unfairly  in the way it had contacted him to 
request he pay it. Finally she said that, with the type of insurance  policy  Mr C agreed to, the 
telematics smart box would monitor and record when and where Mr C drove the car. So she 
didnt think My Policy Ltd was in breach of Mr Cs privacy.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He maintained he didnt know  he was taking out a 
loan to pay for the insurance policy. He said My Policy Ltd should have made it clearer to 
him that he was doing so, rather than insisting  he sign it electronically amongst numerous 
pages. He said that, had he known  hed owe so much money when he cancelled  the policy, 
he wouldnt  have done so.
As Mr C didnt  agree with the adjudicator, the complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first state that Im only able to consider the actions of My Policy Ltd in this decision. 
So Im not commenting on anything the insurer or the finance  provider has done  this 
includes whether  the insurer  has provided a fair refund of the premium and the amount the 
finance provider  has charged in interest. Mr C will need to raise this separately with those 
businesses if he wants to pursue his concerns  in this respect further.
Ref: DRN16377122It seems  to me that Mr C has raised  the following concerns against  My Policy  Ltd:
1.It didnt explain to him he was taking out a loan to pay for the agreement;
2.It charged him unfair  fees when  he cancelled the policy;
3.It didnt explain to him how much hed have to pay if he cancelled  the policy;
4.Hes unhappy with the way its pursued  him for the outstanding balance; and
5.Hes unhappy its been tracking his movements.
I shall look to deal with each point separately.
sale of the finance agreement
Ive reviewed the paperwork and documentation  My Policy Ltd and Mr C has given us. Mr C 
has given us a copy of the finance agreement that he was sent, so I think  he should have 
reasonably been aware hed entered into a finance agreement. But, even if thats not the 
case, I can also see that Mr C was asked to click a box to sign electronically to enter  into the 
finance agreement  when he took out the insurance  policy. And he was told the following at 
this point:
Thank you for choosing [finance provider] to fund your insurance  premium and any 
associated costs, arranged through My Policy Ltd. Your finance is subject to a satisfactory 
credit assessment, which we are currently undertaking.
To complete the setup of the credit agreement  for your insurance premium  there  are two 
important steps  we need you to take.
Step 1: Check your Direct  Debit details
Step 2: Sign your credit  agreement.
So Im satisfied that it was reasonably clear to Mr C that he was entering into a credit 
agreement to pay for the policy  monthly.  And that he chose to do so.
cancellation of the policy.
Mr C asked My Policy  Ltd by email  to cancel the policy on 20 October  2018.  And he 
subsequently returned the cancellation form hed been asked to complete. The terms of the 
contract set out what Mr C would be charged  if he chose to cancel the policy  early   
including how the insurer would calculate  the premium refund  and how much My Policy Ltd 
would charge as a cancellation fee. 
Ultimately, it was Mr Cs responsibility to contact My Policy Ltd if he wanted to know how 
much hed have to pay for the policys cancellation. My Policy Ltd was required  to clarify if 
Mr C wanted to cancel  the policy as hed have to pay £417.22 if he did so. It followed Mr Cs 
instructions to cancel  the policy. And I think it acted  fairly in doing  so.
My Policy  Ltd has charged  a cancellation fee of £75 to cancel the policy, which is in line with 
the terms of the insurance policy. Its entitled to charge a fee to cover its administrative 
charges in arranging the cancellation.  I think £75 is a fair charge for the work  it was required 
to do and is in line with standard industry practice.
Ref: DRN16377123When Mr C took out the insurance policy, he was charged an administrative charge of £247 
to install  the telematics  box. I can see that he was given  a policy  summary  when he took out 
the policy, which said that Mr C would be charged  a £75 cancellation  fee and he wouldnt  get 
a refund of the £247 fee if he cancelled the policy. The policy summary also included a list of 
all the charges on the policy.  Im satisfied that My Policy Ltd took reasonable steps to 
highlight the charges when Mc C took out the policy. So I cant say that its acted unfairly  in 
this respect.
customer service
Mr C is unhappy that My Policy Ltd was tracking his movements while he had the policy,  as 
he thinks this was a breach  of his privacy. But I dont  agree. Mr C agreed  to have a 
telematics box installed in his car when he took out the policy  and in doing so was given a 
reduced premium. 
Furthermore, I note that Mr C was asked  to confirm he understood a Telematics Smart Box 
would be installed in his car. And he confirmed he understood his. So Im satisfied that hed 
consented to My Policy  Ltd tracking  his driving usage. And I also think he would have 
reasonably understood that it was doing so.
Finally I note Mr C says My Policy Ltd was harassing him in the way that it was asking him to 
repay the amount he owed. But I havent  seen anything to support this. As I said above,  
Mr C owed the amount  it said he owed.  So My Policy Ltd was entitled to ask him to pay this. 
Mr C didnt do so, so it was entitled  to take steps to recover this money. And I havent seen 
anything to show that it acted in an unfair way in doing  so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1637712