K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr A took out PPI and life cover  as part of a package called Total  Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). This plan also offered critical illness insurance, but BoS says this wasnt  taken out 
by Mr A. The plan was paid for by a monthly  premium and the PPI element of it covered 
Mr A for up to twenty four months if he was unable to work  because of an accident, sickness 
or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.  Although I know  this will be a 
disappointment to Mr A, Im not upholding his complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
The TMPP was sold to Mr A by BoS during  a meeting in a branch. Mr A says that at the 
meeting the BoS advisor he spoke  to told him he had to take out the policy  in order to get his 
mortgage.
Halifax doesnt have  much paperwork from the time of this sale.  But thats  not particularly 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place. Businesses arent required to keep copies 
of such documents  over these time periods.  This means I need to decide  what I think  is most 
likely to have happened based on all the information  which  is available to me. This includes 
what Mr A says he remembers  about the sale himself  and what  I know more  generally about 
sales of this sort by BoS at around this time.
BoS has provided screenshots of its computer  records relating to this sale.  And I can see 
from these that Mr A was asked a number of questions concerning  his eligibility  and 
suitability for the cover  provided by the TMPP. So it seems likely that the plan was discussed  
with him during the branch meeting. And as the critical illness cover available under the plan 
wasnt included in the policy sold to Mr A, it seems most likely to me that it was agreed 
between the advisor  and Mr A that, given  his particular circumstances at the time,  he didnt 
need this type of cover. If Mr A was right in saying the advisor  misled  him into thinking he 
had to take out insurance with his loan, then I dont think its that likely that a tailored plan - 
excluding critical illness cover  would have been  sold to him, rather  than the more 
comprehensive cover  available  under the plan.
From what  Ive seen in similar sales  at around this time, I also think the paperwork that BoS 
would have provided to Mr A would have presented the PPI as optional and not a condition  
of him getting the mortgage he was seeking.
Ref: DRN19276932I accept that its still possible that the advisor Mr A spoke  to did mislead him into thinking he 
had to take the PPI as a condition of his mortgage. But I dont think  it would be fair for me to 
conclude this is most likely to have been  the case, based only on what Mr A thinks  he 
remember happening. This sale took place  a long time ago and memories  do tend to fade 
over such  lengthy periods  of time. I also think  that, if Mr A thought he had to take the cover 
to get his mortgage, he would have been  likely to realise that he could have cancelled the 
policy once his mortgage was in place.
So, on balance, I think its more likely that Mr A was aware at the time that he had a choice 
about taking out PPI and actively decided to do so. But I can well understand why he may 
not remember this now.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr A, so it needed  to check  that it was suitable for him. I cant  
now know all the things  that it did to ensure this was the case. But from what  I know of his 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason  why it wouldnt have been suitable.  I say 
this because:
Mr A appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr A says he didnt need the PPI cover because  he had other means  of making his 
monthly mortgage repayments if he couldnt work. These included generous sick pay 
and a lengthy notice period from his employer, together with access to significant  
savings for use in just such a situation.  But the PPI would have protected him for up to 
twenty four months if he was unable to work  because of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. It would  also have paid out in addition  to any other means he had at the 
time. And the large mortgage Mr A was taking  out represented a big financial 
commitment  one where his home  might  have been at risk if the monthly  repayments  
couldnt be met. So I still think that Mr A would have valued the extra protection  the PPI 
policy gave him.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr A. And as the premiums  were 
paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
BoS also needed to give Mr A enough  information about the PPI cover for him to decide if he 
wanted to take it. I think its possible that the information he was given  could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable  
for Mr A, I dont  think better information  would  have changed his mind  about taking it. I think  
hed still have thought it gave him useful extra protection at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mr A has lost out by anything that BoS may have  done  wrong  when it 
sold this PPI cover to Mr A.
Ref: DRN19276933my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1927693