K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  gave him loans  
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 5 loans Sunny provided to Mr G between April and July 2018. Heres 
a table showing these  loans - all have been repaid.
Loan no
Start date Instalments amount £Date repaid
1 24/04/2018 6 200 31/10/2018
2 29/04/2018 6 100 31/07/2018
3 30/04/2018 6 200 15/06/2018
4 05/05/2018 6 150 31/10/2018
5 15/07/2018 6 50 31/10/2018
Mr G complained that Sunny had failed to correctly identify that hed become dependent  on 
loans and become  stuck  in a cycle of borrowing  to repay previous loans.
Our adjudicator felt that the complaint should be upheld in part. He said that by loan 4 Mr G 
already had three loans outstanding, so this shouldve alerted Sunny to the possibility that he 
might have been having problems managing  his money. And he felt that Sunny ought to 
have realised it was unlikely Mr G wouldve been able to repay this borrowing, and any 
subsequent loans, in a sustainable way. 
So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have lent Mr G loan 4 or loan 5. 
To put things right our adjudicator recommended that Sunny should  refund all interest and 
charges Mr G had paid on loans 4 and 5 plus interest on the refunds, and amend his credit  
file to remove any adverse information about  these loans.
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly  it said that Mr Gs loan repayments  
were deemed to be affordable and sustainable  based upon the income and expenditure 
information he provided  and Sunny said it had loaned Mr G less than hed asked for when 
he applied  for loan 1. It said it carried out eligibility, creditworthiness and affordability checks  
before making  a decision to provide lending or decline  a loan application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN17112422Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his/her  loans  not just whether the loan payments  
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the first three loans were proportionate. 
Sunny shouldve had some  concerns  about the frequency of Mr Gs borrowing  he took the 
first three loans within the space of just six days. But the amounts that Mr G needed  to 
repay, even when considering the combined repayments, were  relatively  small compared  
with the disposable income  hed declared. Given  these repayment amounts, what was 
apparent about  Mr Gs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with Sunny, 
I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first three loans.  
Ref: DRN17112423When Mr G asked for his fourth  loan, this was his fourth request in less than two weeks. By 
then hed not even started  repaying  any of his previous three  loans. So I think  Sunny should  
have realised that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending decision on the information  
Mr G was providing. I think  it would have been proportionate for Sunny to have  taken steps 
to independently check the true state  of Mr Gs finances.
Had Sunny  looked  in depth at Mr Gs finances  it would  have seen  that he was facing serious 
problems managing his money.  It would have seen  that Mr G was spending significant 
amounts on what appear to be online gambling  transactions. And it would have  seen that he 
had used some of the money hed previously  borrowed  from Sunny to repay other short  term 
loans that were due. So I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to conclude that it was 
likely Mr G would be able to repay this, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable manner.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 and 5 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 4 and 5 (taken out on 05/05/2018  
and 15/07/2018;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Gs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1711242