K820x#14complaint
Mr G has questioned the advice he received from a representative of Openwork in 2017  to 
switch his pension.  He says that the adviser recommended he move  his pension so that he 
would pay less in charges.  However Mr G believes he has actually paid significantly higher  
charges and this has affected his pension value. He does not believe the advice  to switch his 
pension was suitable.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 20 August 2020. A copy is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I explained why I was not intending to uphold the 
complaint. 
Openwork accepted the provisional  decision.
Mr G did not accept the provisional  decision  and made further submissions. In summary he 
said:
The sole reason for switching pension was being  told by the adviser that he was 
incurring high charges from his existing  pension provider.
The cash  released from the pension was forced on him by the adviser. It was not 
required for home improvements and not used. Mr G questions  whether this was so 
the adviser could  earn more fees.
His wife did receive  an inheritance but that was over a year later.
He did not receive  the Suitability Report or any other documents  and only received 
copies in 2019. If he had received the Suitability  Report and noted  the fees then he 
would not have proceeded. So he was not aware  of the issue  of tax free cash until 
2019. Why were there no checks that the Suitability Report had been  received?
In dealings with other  financial intuitions costs and charges  were made clear  this 
was not the case  with Openwork.
The adviser made a deliberate attempt to prevent him from discovering  he was being 
charged higher  fees by not providing  documents or the correct contact information to 
the new pension  provider. The provider also confirmed that the adviser had 
requested that it not contact him. 
The adviser visited him at his old address  and was aware  that he and his wife were  
purchasing a new property. This was at a very difficult time due to family issues, and 
in hindsight he should not have made  commitments at this time. The adviser  did not 
mention this in his report and took advantage of him and his wife at a vulnerable 
time. He never saw the documents  to release  the payments and would not have  
agreed to them.  
He has lost over three years  growth  on his pension  and growth  on the tax free cash.
Ref: DRN13589632The charges  were excessive for changing a pension  that cost very little to maintain 
and was increasing in value. This was to a pension with excessive charges and to a 
provider he couldnt contact. Other pension providers clearly  set out their charges. 
The review of his pension was suggested by a mortgage adviser, he didnt request it  
 both the mortgage adviser and the pension adviser were connected to Openwork. 
If a Suitability Report is a requirement,  should there not be a process to ensure these 
documents are delivered and received?
It appears not to be a good option  to change pension providers until nearing  
retirement age  in this case  why did the adviser  recommend  he proceed.
my findings
Ive reviewed all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
A material issue that has been  raised  is whether Mr G was provided with the Suitability 
Report completed by the adviser.  I appreciate  what Mr G has said but it has not been  
proven as he says that this wasnt sent or received. I considered  that issue  in the 
provisional decision. As I said in the provisional  decision, there is a requirement that such  a 
report or recommendation be provided  but there  isnt a set requirement that checks  are 
made to make sure such a report is received. Be that as it may, as I said in the provisional 
decision, I cannot necessarily assume that the information contained in that report is 
incorrect. One of the main  reasons  for the transfer  set out in that report is the release of tax 
free cash. Whilst Mr G says it was not needed, I am not persuaded that the evidence  is that 
Mr G was unaware that tax free cash would be released  he has said he was aware that tax 
free cash  would be supplied. Whilst I note that Mr G has said that this was forced  on him by 
the adviser, if it was not required or of no use at all, then there  is a reasonable expectation 
that this would have been questioned at the time. Releasing tax free cash from a transferred 
pension does not earn more fees for the adviser   in fact it would  probably  result in less fees 
over time. 
As I discussed in the provisional decision, the fact that tax free cash  was to be supplied was 
set out in all the financial  planning documentation  and whilst  I appreciate  what Mr G has said 
about the new property, it is not an unreasonable suggestion that it might have been thought 
useful to have  additional money  given the significant  change in personal/family 
circumstances that Mr G has explained  were occurring at the time. 
I am conscious of the very difficult circumstances that Mr G said were occurring at the time 
of the advice but that does not mean  that the advice was unsuitable.  
The Suitability Report  was addressed  to a property at which Mr G was living  at the time.  I 
cannot assume that this was not sent so as to withhold information from him. Mr G says that 
the new pension  provider had incorrect contact details. It is not clear  why this occurred  (it 
could be due to the change of address). But that could have been rectified that at the time  
as it later appears happened so that statements and information  could  be obtained. Advisers 
do sometimes request that the information issued  by the provider is sent to them  so that they 
can review the data  and that may have been the case here. But that does not necessarily 
lead to a finding that the adviser was attempting to hide certain facts from Mr G.
  
Ref: DRN13589633Mr G has been clear  that the main reason for agreeing  to move the pensions was a 
reduction in fees or cost. The fees were set out in the Suitability Report and I have to take 
into account that Mr G did sign a form to agree to them. I do not agree that the fees were  
excessive  they seem to me within the reasonable sphere of charges that would be applied 
for the provision of advice in such circumstances. In terms of when  a transfer should be 
made, there  should  be reasons for a transfer  and there are no particular reasons why a 
transfer of a pension should not be made at any particular moment in time  such as only 
when approaching retirement  or taking benefits. On the face of it there were such  reasons 
here  so I could not say the transfer was unjustified.  
There is no particular reason why a referral  cannot  be made by one adviser (here  it seems a 
mortgage adviser) to another.  I note that Mr G says it was the mortgage  adviser  who 
suggested he might like a pension review. That does not mean that the recommendation 
subsequently provided by the pension adviser  was unsuitable or the needs were not as 
described. 
I have considered the evidence carefully,  weighing up the evidence that Mr G has provided  
with regard to the information in the Suitability Report and its receipt, the need or otherwise 
for tax free cash and the charges applied.  And also taking account of the evidence  
Openwork has supplied as to the provision of the Suitability Report  (a copy of which they 
have on file), knowledge  that tax free cash was being released and the disclosure of 
charges. On balance I cannot say that the evidence is that Mr Gs complaint should be 
upheld. There is sufficient  evidence  that tax free cash  was agreed to and the parties were 
aware of its release (even  if in the event it was not used) and that the charges incurred in the 
transfer were justified. 
It might be useful to explain that investment performance would have had an effect on the 
new pension  value  after the pensions were transferred and it could not be known in advance  
whether the new pension  would generate  returns  better  or worse than the previous pension. 
The situation  should not be viewed  with hindsight with the knowledge that the performance  
of the new pension might not have been  as hoped for. There is no guarantee the previous 
pensions would have  performed better or worse than the new pension. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
copy provisional decision
 
complaint
Mr G has questioned  the advice he received from a representative of Openwork  in 2017 to switch his 
pension. He says that the adviser recommended he move  his pension so that he would pay less in 
charges. However Mr G believes he has actually  paid significantly higher charges  and this has 
affected his pension value.  He does not believe the advice to switch his pension was suitable.  
Ref: DRN13589634background
Although this decision considers  Mr Gs complaint, it would be helpful to note that Mrs G has also 
made a similar complaint  and advice  was given to them at the same point by the same  adviser. So 
there will be references  to both Mr and Mr G in this decision.
In 2017, Mr G completed a fact find and risk profiling exercise with Openwork. The fact find recorded 
Mr G was aged 55 and employed as an admin  manager earning about £43,000  a year.  He had an 
expected retirement age of 67.
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs G had recently  purchased a new home and had taken
out a mortgage for £110,000. Mr G held three pension plans, which had a combined transfer
value of around £100,000. And it was recorded  at the time that he wanted to consolidate the pensions 
and access tax free cash for home improvements.  It was noted  that he had £10,000 in a joint savings 
account and his attitude to risk was recorded as Cautious.
Subsequently, on 5 June 2017, Openwork says it sent a suitability report  to Mr G recommending the 
switch of two his pensions totalling about £100,000 to a new pension.  This was to a Zurich Retirement 
Account, with the money invested into its Cautious Model  Portfolio. The new Zurich plan would allow 
Mr G to withdraw the tax free cash  he required  and take drawdown with the remainder  of his pension 
funds.
Mr G later complained to Openwork about the charges which had been deducted from his pension.  
He stated that he had never received any paperwork (including  the suitability  report) and would  not 
have agreed  to the charges. He felt that advice  was unsuitable.
Openwork considered Mr Gs complaint but did not uphold it. It said the adviser  had given suitable 
advice based on Mr Gs objectives. This was primarily to release tax free cash from his pension  for 
home improvements.  It also believed that the fees and costs of switching  the pension to Zurich had 
been explained at the time. 
One of adjudicators investigated the complaint  and felt it should be upheld.  He noted  that the main  
objective for the transfer recorded in the suitability  report was to access  tax free cash. After 
discussing this with Mr G, he found  that hed been advised to take it and so agreed to do so but there 
wasnt actually any requirement for it. This was evidenced by the fact that he had an amount of cash 
readily available to him if it was required for home improvements as suggested in the suitability report. 
He also noted the tax free cash withdrawn remained intact. He also noted that there  were 
considerably higher charges incurred by switching to the new pension.  He felt this called into question 
the material  reason for the pension  switch. 
Openwork did not agree  with the investigators  assessment. In summary it:
Discussed whether  the suitability report completed by the adviser had been received. It said 
that the adviser had confirmed  it was sent.  And the suitability report set out that there was a 
need for tax free cash for home improvements,  which Mr G could  have challenged  if incorrect.
Said Mr G did not question the need for tax free cash when the initial complaint was made. It 
said this indicated  that there was a need for it. Furthermore, statements  Mrs G had made  
about requesting  a £25,000 drawdown indicated there was a need, as did statements about  
money being withdrawn  from her husbands pension  being sufficient.
Said Mr and Mr G had recently moved to a new house and taken out a mortgage  which 
indicated a need  for tax free cash. 
Said Mr and Mr G could not have taken drawdown and then tax free cash from the pension 
schemes they were switching  from. 
Said there was no advantage to the adviser  in recommending that Mr G take tax free cash.
Said the fact that Mr G did not spend the tax free cash  does not mean he did not need it. He 
may have  changed his mind  or his circumstances could have changed. In that respect it 
Ref: DRN13589635appears that Mr and Mrs G may have received an inheritance post advice that eliminated  the 
need for the tax free cash. Mr and Mrs G applied for planning permission for works with 
respect to their home in January 2018.  This would  have required significant expenditure. 
Said the advice and fees to be charged were well documented  and were consistent.  
Openwork asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted that the fact find (a record of Mr Gs financial circumstances and objectives) completed 
by the adviser  in 2017  records that Mr G wished to release  tax free cash from his pension for home 
improvements. It also records that Mr G wanted the flexibility to access  his pension  as he wished and, 
wants ongoing service  to monitor  the growth of his funds towards retirement  and to help with fund 
selection and future withdrawals in the future.  
I note there is a suitability report dated 5 June 2017 for Mr G. This sets out that:
You would like to access the maximum  TFC from the plans now as you have recently  agreed to buy 
a new home  and want to make various  repairs and home improvements  to it. You have ruled out 
raising the monies for this through borrowing  as you do not wish to borrow more  on your mortgage or 
take out a loan.
There then followed  a recommendation from the adviser:
I carefully considered your existing pension arrangements, in particular whether they currently meet 
your accessing objectives  and at what cost. Taking this into account,  together with any benefits  you 
may lose, the alternatives available and any costs of moving,  I  recommend that you should  move 
your existing arrangements.
And:
I recommended accessing  your pension funds using Flexi-Access Drawdown as it allows you to take 
a tax-free cash lump sum of up to 25% of your pension  pot if required, and as much or as little income 
as needed from your pension savings  at any time. This means  you have control  over your savings, 
keeping funds  invested  tax efficiently, in line with the level of risk you want to take until you need to 
draw on them.
Also:
Tax Free Cash {TFC)
I advised that you should  take a Tax Free Cash lump  sum of £24,973.57 as this will allow you to make 
the necessary improvements  and repairs to your new home and fulfils your main objective.
In terms of charges:
My service  & remuneration
My service & remuneration
We agreed that you'd pay the following for the services and advice you receive:
Total initial fee of £4,558.45 - this is made up of;
Ref: DRN13589636Understanding & Analysts  fee of £2,500.00.  This fee is to cover advice given in relation to the 
understanding of your existing  pension provisions and of the Zurich Retirement Account. It is 
calculated at an hourly rate of 6 hours advice  at £250.00 per hour and 10 hours  administration at 
£100.00 per hour.
Advice & Implementation fee of £2,058.45 -which is 2% of the invested transfer value  of your previous 
plans and 50% of the first years' contributions to the plan. This fee is to cover advice given in relation  
to the advice  and recommendation of the Zurich  Retirement Account.
Ongoing fee of 0.75% a year - this could equate to approximately £536.79 in the first year. The 
ongoing fee will vary each year. The actual amount deducted will depend on the performance and 
value of the underlying funds you're investing in. This fee is to cover my costs in providing  a report  of 
your plan on an annual basis, to ensure that this recommendation continues to meet  your needs and 
requirements.
There is a fee agreement dated 1 June 2017 signed by Mr G which sets out that there will be an 
ongoing service charge  of 0.75% payable  to the adviser, (initial) payment of a £2,500 lump  sum, plus 
a charge equating to 2% of the transferred pensions. 
On the subject of flexibility, it was stated by the adviser  that none  of the existing pensions  would 
facilitate drawdown.  I believe this is correct in the case of Mr Gs Sun Life pensions.  Sun Life has 
confirmed that this is not an option that was available when taking benefits  from Mr Gs pensions. In 
order to release the tax free cash Mr G would  have needed  to transfer his pension (as happened 
here) or take the whole pension as cash (with the applicable tax charges). 
Materially, Mr Gs original  complaint was that when he met with the adviser  he was told that the new 
pension would  be cheaper - and his comments are evidence I take into account. He also questioned 
the need  for tax free cash.
But I also have to take into account that I have not seen any other evidence that such comments 
about lower  charges were  made  and Openwork has disputed  that such comments  would have  been 
made. In addition the charges to be incurred for the advice and the new pension are set out in the 
suitability report. The suitability report also clearly sets out that tax free cash  is required  for expected 
home improvements and this is a material motivation for the pension switch.  Mr G had just moved  to a 
new house and so that version of events  is plausible.  If that was not the motivation or tax free cash 
was not required then  I would expect to see that the suitability report was questioned by Mr G.  
Furthermore Openwork has said that planning permission was applied for on the new property in 
January 2018  which  would  tend to suggest that home improvements were  envisaged.  
As discussed, Mr G says that he did not receive his suitability report. And that he visited his previous 
address on several occasions to pick up mail but a suitability report  was not amongst such 
correspondence. From what I can see the report was addressed correctly to the property Mr G was 
living in at the time (prior to him moving). So the suitability report should have  been received.  It is 
normal (and in fact a requirement) for such a report to be issued and I cannot assume  that did not 
happen. It would also be reasonable that an individual would expect  some kind of formal  report  from 
the adviser  and that it would be questioned if such was not received.  In any event, I cannot  assume 
that, even  if it was not received, the report did not correctly set out what  the objectives and the 
motivations for the transfer were (which are repeated in the fact find). Furthermore if Mr G did not 
require the tax free cash then I would  expect  this matter to be raised at the time. Mr G has said that 
he was encouraged by the financial adviser to take the tax free cash, not that he was unaware of it. 
I have noted that Mr G has said he has not used any of that tax free cash. That could  support a 
finding that tax free cash wasnt required. Openwork has queried whether an inheritance  might have 
obviated the need for the tax free cash, but Mr G has confirmed that the inheritance was also not 
used for any expenditure and has been placed in a savings/investment account.  I have considered 
this but the fact that the tax free cash has not been used so far does not necessarily indicate  that it 
Ref: DRN13589637wasnt a need when the advice was given or that Mr G didnt agree  to its release.  As discussed, Mr G 
was aware of it and that it would be supplied as a result of the pension  switch. 
Bearing all this in mind,  I do not believe the advice was unsuitable. It allowed  the tax free cash to be 
taken (which the evidence would suggest,  on balance, was a need or expected) whilst leaving the 
remainder of the pension fund intact. The remaining money was invested  at a risk level in accordance 
with Mr Gs assessed  risk tolerance. From what I can see the charges were higher with the new 
pension plan  but they were not unreasonable, were disclosed and there were reasons for incurring 
those charges. I appreciate  what  Mr G has said about the rationale for moving  if charges were  to be 
higher. But higher charges  does not necessarily  equate  to unsuitable advice if there are reasons for 
incurring those  charges   which the evidence  would  suggest  there were  here. 
In terms of some  of the adviser charges being assessed  on the entire  pension fund value, that is how 
the charge was levied - on the amount of fund on which the adviser was giving his advice. Although 
the ongoing charges are assessed on the actual fund after tax free cash  is released. I do not believe 
the evidence suggests  the adviser acted incorrectly here.
 
my provisional  decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr G, but I do not believe  the evidence suggests  that I should uphold the 
complaint. So I do not intend to uphold  the complaint or make any award.   
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358963