K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (Shop  Direct) closed his account  
without notice and carried out a second  credit check without his consent.
background
Mr Q brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response  hes received from 
Shop Direct in relation  to his concerns about the closure of his account.
Shop Direct told Mr Q, in a letter dated 10 April 2019, that they werent going to uphold his 
complaint. They said that whilst they valued him as a customer  they also had an obligation 
as a responsible  lender not to allow Mr Q further  credit at that time. Shop Direct said that 
although his accounts were initially opened further checks were  carried  out and depending 
on his trading history  and credit status the account limit could be revoked,  reduced or 
increased at their discretion. They also told him that although no administration  charges had 
been applied  to his account  whilst  they investigated  his complaint they would  now be applied  
to his account if payments werent maintained and he remained liable for the account and 
the amount owed  on it.
Our investigator didnt  think Shop Direct had acted unlawfully by carrying  out a second credit 
search on Mr Qs file. She found when he opened  his account Mr Q had entered  into a credit 
agreement with Shop Direct and agreed to its terms and conditions.  Those terms provided  
his consent for ongoing  and therefore  the second search of his credit records.  The 
investigator also couldnt agree that Mr Q hadnt  been told that his account would be closed 
as shed listened to a call recording in which a credit search was carried out whilst  Mr Q was 
on the line and the representative had explained that because there was conflicting 
information his account would be closed.  Later,  in response to Mr Qs disagreement with the 
view, the investigator  provided Mr Q with a transcript of the relevant parts  of the call 
recording in an email  dated 20 August 2019.
Mr Q didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. He thought  the call 
recording related  to another account he held with another retailer  via Shop Direct.  He said 
hed never  been  contacted by letter or email about the closure of this account  and the details 
he continued to receive about the account  showed a credit  limit of £250 with a small 
available balance. He also questioned  what sort of information Shop Direct had received 
form the second credit check which went against him and said his credit record had 
improved since hed opened this account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that this is a complaint which I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion  on 2 August 2019 so I shant repeat that here. Indeed,  theres not a great 
deal I can add to what the investigators already told Mr Q in her first opinion and her 
subsequent correspondence  particularly the email of the 20 August  2018  transcribing 
relevant extracts  from the call on 12 June 2018  - dealing with his concerns. I think shes 
covered all the points  quite  clearly and I agree with her analysis and conclusions. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN13083562The information which Shop Direct have sent me - including  the call recording from 12 June 
2018  satisfies  me that they had Mr Qs permission  to carry out the second credit  search  as 
part of the original credit agreement. And also that theyd informed Mr Q in the call on 12 
June 2018 that they were closing booth of the accounts he held with them and why. Shop 
Direct also encouraged  Mr Q to access his credit file to appraise himself of the situation.  So, 
overall, I dont think Shop  Direct have done  anything wrong here.
Given how strongly Mr Q feels about what happened he may want to pursue  the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with Shop Direct  informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr Q.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1308356