K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc asked her to provide information about  how she 
used her account. And wanted information  about her late husband. Shes  also unhappy that 
Santander blocked and closed her account  following a review. She wants  Santander to pay 
her compensation for the trouble and upset this caused her.
background
Mrs D had a Santander  savings account with her late husband. Shes explained  that over the 
last ten years shes not used the account  much. So, she cant understand why Santander 
had any concerns about the account.  And asked her for information about her finances.  
Ive provided a timeline of events using the evidence from both Mrs D and Santander.
While this may not include everything  both parties  have commented on, I believe its 
important to set out what Santander asked for, and when  and what  Mrs D provided:
3 May 2018, Santander reviewed and blocked  Mrs Ds account. As part of the review  
Santander asked  her to complete  a questionnaire as part of its know your customer 
(KYC) process. And provide information about her address and copies of her passport. 
22 May 2018, Mrs D called Santander  to query  why she needed to provide identity 
documents. She said shed already provided personal information, including her 
husbands death certificate in 2017.  Mrs D told Santander she thought  Santanders 
request for information was extremely odd given  that shed held the account  for more 
than 40 years, was a pensioner and the account balance  hardly  moved for several years.  
Santander explained that it needed the information to comply  with its KYC process  and 
Anti-Money Laundering regulations.
23 May 2018, Mrs D completed and returned the paperwork to Santander including  
copies of utility  bills, council tax and her passport.
30 May 2018 Santander  wrote to Mrs D setting out why it needed the information it had 
asked her to provide.  And gave  her some more information about its KYC process and 
regulatory obligations.
31 May 2018 Santander  received  information from Mrs D. Santander  reviewed the 
information and decided it needed  to ask Mrs D more questions regarding  her source of 
income and any pensions she was receiving.
5 June 2018 Santander  called  Mrs D and asked her for information about  her occupation 
before she retired, pensions she received and how she intended to use her savings 
account. Mrs D answered Santanders questions and provided a breakdown  of her 
income, which included  details  of her late husbands pension.
8 June 2018, Santander  contacted Mrs D and asked her to provide further information 
about her husbands  pension. Santander  explained it needed this information to comply 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. Mrs D wasnt  happy  and pointed out that shed 
had the account since 1979.  She asked  for a manager to call her back and said she felt 
Santander was only asking her for this information  because of her nationality.
Ref: DRN1510438212 June 2018  Santander wrote to Mrs D asking  her to provide evidence  of her husbands  
pension.
25 June 2018,  Santander received documents from Mrs D which  set out her entitlement  
to her husbands pension.
21 September 2018, Santander asked Mrs D to provide identification and verification 
information for her husband. Santander  asked  Mrs D to provide this information by 28 
September 2018. And said she could provide a driving licence,  passport and utility  bills. 
24 September 2018, Mrs D wrote  to Santander  to let it know she was very upset at being 
asked for information about her late husband. And gave Santander another  copy of the 
certificate along with the other  information it requested. 
Between January and March 2019 Santander reviewed the information  provided by 
Mrs D.
28 March 2019 Santander closed Mrs Ds account. The remaining funds were  returned 
to her via cheque.
Following this, Mrs D contacted our service.  An investigator looked at Mrs Ds complaint. He 
said Santander had acted in line with their its legal and regulatory  obligations when  it 
reviewed Mrs Ds account and asked her to provide  information. He also said Santander 
were entitled  to close the account. But he thought Santander couldve completed its review  
quicker. So, he recommended  Santander pay Mrs D £300  for the inconvenience  of having 
her account  blocked  for longer than was necessary. 
Mrs D disagreed. She said Santander havent  explained why it blocked and then closed her 
account. She says she has a right to know the reasons behind Santanders actions. 
On 12 November 2019, I issued a provisional  decision on this complaint.  I explained  that I 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong  when it asked Mrs D to provide information  
about how she was using her savings account. And that Santander had explained to Mrs D 
why it needed  the information it had asked her to provide. 
I was also satisfied that Santander  had closed Mrs Ds account in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And werent obliged to provide Mrs D with an explanation for its 
actions. 
In my provisional decision I also considered how long Santander had taken to complete its 
review of Mrs Ds account. I was satisfied that as of late September 2018,  Santander  had all 
the correct and required information  it needed from Mrs D to complete its review. So, I said it 
was reasonable  for Mrs D to expect Santander to respond to this promptly or contact her as 
soon as possible if they didnt have all the information needed. But it didnt complete its 
review until March 2019.  some  six months later. And this process  wasnt  started  until 
January 2019.
Overall, having looked  at the timeline  of events, on balance, I wasnt persuaded that 
Mrs D has been treated fairly by Santander. And that shed been caused  some distress and 
inconvenience by the stretched-out process of the review. So, whilst Santander hadnt done 
Ref: DRN15104383anything wrong  by completing  its review. And did so to comply with its legal and regulatory  
obligations, I was satisfied that it couldve done things quicker, especially as it had the 
information it needed to start its review in September 2018. And from looking at how long it 
ended up taking Santander to finish its review, I thought  its likely  Santander  couldve 
completed things by December 2018.   
I was satisfied that this issue has had an impact  on Mrs D and caused her trouble and upset.
So, I considered  the circumstances here were such that Mrs D was entitled to some 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by the delay. And agreed with the 
investigator that £300 compensation was broadly fair. 
In addition to this, I also said that Santander should  add 8% interest  per year simple on the 
closing balance of Mrs Ds account  of £16,756.66 from 1 January 2019 until 28 March  2019. 
The reasoning behind this was that Mrs D provided the requested  information  in September 
2018. And there were no changes in her circumstances  up until March 2019 which wouldve 
impacted Santanders  review and the release of Mrs D funds. So, Mrs D wouldve made use 
of the money  in her account sooner.
I asked Mrs D and Santander to let me have any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. Santander agreed with my provisional decision 
and didnt have  anything further to add. Mrs D didnt accept my provisional  decision. In 
summary she said:
she had submitted all the information  Santander  requested prior to September 2018. And 
she merely re-submitted  the same information. So, to give Santander another three  
months to process information isnt fair and the object of her complaint was to get 
Santander to improve its systems and processes  and wasnt  about compensation.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs D for her submissions, and Ive considered whats  shes  said. 
I can appreciate Mrs D motivation for making  her complaint is ultimately to improve the 
service Santander offers  its customers such as her. But it isnt the role of the ombudsman 
service to tell Santander how to run its business.  That is a matter  for the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority.
Its not in dispute  that the information (Mr Ds death certificate) Mrs D submitted to 
Santander in September  2018, had previously been provided to Santander. And Ive already 
addressed this point  in some detail in my provisional decision. I can understand Mrs D thinks  
its unfair that Santander took three months  to complete its review. Whilst I can understand 
Mrs Ds frustration, Im satisfied that once started,  Santander  completed its review as quickly 
as possible.
It follows that my findings about this complaint havent changed. Based on the evidence  Ive 
looked at Im satisfied  that Santander has acted  in line with the terms and conditions  of 
Mrs Ds account when  deciding to review and close the account. And that Santander gave  
Mrs D enough information about why it was asking her to provide information  and paperwork 
to help it understand how Mrs D used her account. 
Ref: DRN15104384Having looked  at the timeline of events,  whilst  Santander havent done  anything wrong by 
completing its review. And did so to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, Im 
satisfied that it couldve  done things quicker,  especially as it had the information it needed to 
start its review in September 2018.  This meant Mrs Ds bank account was blocked for nearly 
a year.  That wouldve had an impact on almost  anyone. She couldnt  access the money in 
her account  until March 2019.  And I havent  seen enough evidence  to show  that Santander 
took steps to move  things forward as quickly as they could  have.
As a result, Mrs D has been caused distress  and inconvenience by the stretched-out 
process of the review.  So, I consider  the circumstances  here are such that Mrs D is entitled  
to some compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay. And I agree with the 
investigator that £300 compensation is broadly  fair. 
In addition to this, Santander  should  add 8% interest  per year simple on the closing balance 
of Mrs Ds account of £16,756.66 from 1 January 2019 until 28 March 2019.  The reasoning 
behind this is that Mrs D provided the requested information in September  2018. And there  
were no changes in her circumstances up until March 2019,  which  wouldve impacted 
Santanders review  and the release of Mrs D funds.  So, Mrs D wouldve made use of the 
money in her account sooner had there  not been  any delays.
putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs D £300.00  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the time it took Santander  to start its review of Mrs Ds account.
In addition to this, Santander  should  add 8% interest  per year simple on the closing balance 
of Mrs Ds account of £16,756.66 from 1 January 2019 until 28 March 2019.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander Bank UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I require Santander Bank  UK Plc 
to pay Mrs D compensation as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1510438