K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined his claim.  
background
Mr C has a travel insurance policy through his bank account, underwritten by Aviva. Mr C 
had a trip booked  to Japan from 22 December 2017 to 8 January 2018, via France.  When Mr 
C got to France,  he became unwell and bought  a flight back to the UK. He visited  his doctor  
on 28 December 2017 and made  a claim.  However, Aviva declined  the claim because it said 
there was insufficient  medical evidence to show that Mr C was too unwell to travel to Japan 
at the time. 
Mr C complained to Aviva  and unhappy  with its response,  referred his complaint  to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done  anything wrong as its terms and 
conditions were clear, and Mr C hadnt followed them.  
Mr C disagreed and in summary,  has made  the following comments:
He took his travel insurance as a benefit of his bank account  there was no phone 
number in the information he received from his bank and he didnt  know  the insurer 
was Aviva.
By telephoning the Aviva number, this wouldnt prove he was unwell.
Mr C has plenty of witnesses who would  be willing to give evidence under oath that 
he was severely ill.
This is a case of Aviva using  small print about a medical hotline.
If he hadnt taken  the actions  he did then there  would have been an extremely  
serious situation on a long haul flight.
And so the case has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.  
The relevant  industry  rules say an insurer must  handle claims promptly  and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.  
Ref: DRN13956592Under the section  cancelling your trip or coming home early the policy confirms  Aviva will 
pay costs:
If you unavoidably have  to cancel your trip to come  home early  as a result  of any of 
these events: 1. You are injured,  fall ill, are quarantined or die  
The claim conditions say:
All claims resulting from illness, injury, quarantine or death must  be supported by 
medical reportsMedical reports must be obtained at the time of the incident  and 
indicate the necessity to cancel the trip or come  home early.
They also say:
If you need  to come home early and intend  to make  a claim  you must phone  the 
Emergency Medical  Assistance Helpline immediately.
Mr C didnt see a doctor  at the time to confirm he was too unwell to continue with his 
journey. And didnt  call the emergency assistance helpline either.  Aviva  said there was no 
medical evidence  of any diagnosis at the time of the incident to confirm  he was unfit to 
continue travel and that curtailment  of his trip was medically necessary.
Mr Cs GP wrote  a letter dated  2 July 2018  which confirmed that Mr C cancelled  his holiday 
plans in December  2017 due to medical  reasons, he had severe symptoms and would be 
medically unable  to fly to Japan at that stage and was reviewed on 28 December regarding  
his symptoms. 
Although Mr C saw his GP after he returned  to the UK, Aviva said this wasnt  sufficient as it 
would have been based on Mr C telling his GP what had been  wrong  with him at the time 
rather than being  examined by a doctor  to confirm what was wrong with him. 
Aviva has also confirmed  that if Mr C had contacted Aviva at the time, as required by the 
policy, it wouldnt have recommended returning  early due to Mr Cs symptoms. It would have 
required a medical  review first. 
Having considered all of the above, I dont think Aviva has unfairly declined Mr Cs claim. 
Avivas terms  are clear that medical  assistance  and evidence has to be obtained at the time, 
rather than afterwards. And had Mr C telephoned Aviva,  it would have advised him on the 
next steps such as seeking medical  attention before cancelling his plans. Mr C was of 
course entitled to change  his plans but in order to be covered under the policy, he would 
have needed to follow the conditions  set out above. 
Mr C has made a number of comments which Ive carefully considered.  He said he didnt  
know the insurer was Aviva as the travel insurance was a benefit attached to his bank  
account. Ive seen a copy  of the policy which confirms all the relevant numbers and what  to 
do in the event of illness.  Even if Mr C didnt know his insurer was Aviva, the policy  booklet 
from his bank confirms  the terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN13956593Mr C says by telephoning  Aviva,  this wouldnt have proven that he was unwell. But by 
telephoning the emergency  medical assistance  helpline, he could have sought advice and 
assistance on what to do next and he would  have been given information  about the policy.  
He would have  been told about the requirement to get medical assistance and medical 
evidence, as confirmed  by Aviva.
In relation to Mr Cs witnesses to confirm he was severely unwell, this would not be medical 
evidence as required under the policy. Medical evidence from the time would confirm  the 
diagnosis and reasons for not continuing with the holiday.
I note that Mr C thinks Aviva is using the small print but I dont think its terms and conditions 
are unreasonable. As Mr C wished to make  a claim as a result  of his illness, it isnt 
unreasonable for Aviva to require  medical evidence from the time of illness.  I also note what 
Mr C says about continuing with a long-haul flight but I cant  speculate  on what may have 
happened. Had Mr C contacted Aviva, he would have been provided  with advice at that time 
to seek medical attention  before flying.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2021.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1395659