K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Creation Financial  Services Limited failed to allow  him to reinstate his 
interest free period  after he was late with a payment despite being  told it would do so.
background 
Mr G has a credit card account with Creation which offers an interest free period. In May 
2018 he missed a payment due to being in hospital  which meant he lost the benefit of the 
interest free offer. During the course of two calls he was told that the interest  free period 
would be reinstated,  but this was wrong. Subsequently Creation has pursued him for the 
outstanding money.
Creation rejected his complaint and so he brought it to this service. It was considered by one 
of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. He said Mr G had been led to believe 
that the interest free period would  be allowed  to continue, but that was incorrect.  He didnt 
think Creation was wrong to remove it but he felt it had caused Mr G inconvenience because  
he had to contact  Creation  on several occasions to clarify what the correct position  was.
He was also caused distress by his expectation  of having the interest  free period reinstated  
being dashed. The adjudicator said that Creation was entitled under its terms and conditions 
to remove the interest free period as Mr G had failed  to make a monthly  payment  on time. 
Therefore he couldnt ask it to reinstate it, but he felt it should  compensate  Mr G for the 
distress and loss of expectation  and pay him £100.
Creation agreed, but Mr G didnt and asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration and annoyance. He missed  his monthly payment due to 
being in hospital and then when he spoke to Creation  on two separate  occasions he was 
given incorrect advice.  
I have to consider  what Creation did wrong and then decide how best to put Mr G back  in the 
positon he would have been had no mistake been made. 
Even though  Mr G had a good reason to have failed  to make his monthly  payment  this does 
not means that Creation  were obliged to overlook the terms and conditions  of the account. It 
could have done as a gesture of goodwill,  but it has not decided  to do so and I cannot 
require it to go against that decision. Removing the interest free offer was done in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the account.
What was wrong was the advice by two call handlers that the interest free period would be 
reinstated. Those were errors and for the loss of expectation they created Mr G is entitled  to 
some compensation. The aim of this service  is to put people  back  into the situation  they 
would have been had the errors not been made. The only errors made were the two call 
handlers giving incorrect information. If the two call handlers hadnt  got it wrong then Mr G 
would still have lost his interest free period. While that would have been frustrating he at 
least wouldnt have had his hopes incorrectly raised.
Ref: DRN10412482Therefore I agree  that Creation should pay Mr G £100 compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Financial Services  
Limited to pay Mr G £100. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 11 February  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1041248