K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a packaged bank account, 
called the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). He paid a monthly fee for the URCA 
and received several potential benefits  in return.  He thinks  that Bank of Scotland  should give 
him a full refund  for the fees he paid.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ls complaint  and didnt think that Bank  
of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to him. 
Mr L didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Ls complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr L and Bank  of Scotland have told us or sent us about the case  
and Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr L had banked with Bank of Scotland for quite  a long time before it sold him the URCA. He 
opened a fee-free account  in 2000 and changed  to the URCA in 2009. He then changed  
back to a fee-free  account  during 2019.  
The main  point of Mr Ls complaint  is that he says that Bank  of Scotland  switched him to the 
URCA and started to charge him fees without telling  him and without his permission. Hes 
told us that he didnt know that he had the URCA until 2019 when his son noticed the fees 
on his bank statements  and pointed them out to him. Hes said that he was not aware of 
the charges until this time and that all the benefits of the account would have been of no 
use whatsoever  to  him. 
Mr L has also explained that he suffers from depression and doesnt pay a great deal of 
attention to correspondence  from his bank. 
Around ten years have  passed since Bank of Scotland  sold the URCA to Mr L and not 
surprisingly neither  party has been able to tell us a great deal about what  happened at the 
time. Indeed, Mr L has told us very clearly  that he doesnt ever recall  having being sold a 
packaged bank  account.  And Bank of Scotland hasnt sent us many details, so I cant tell for 
sure what  happened. Instead, Ive considered whats most likely to have occurred, based on 
the evidence I have available. 
Bank of Scotland has denied that it mis-sold  the URCA to Mr L. It thinks it did so fairly. It has 
told us that in 2009 it sold URCAs  on an information only basis  where  it would tell 
customers about an URCAs  costs  and possible benefits and allow  them to decide if they 
wanted to buy one. Its told us that it would follow this up by sending  customers  a welcome 
pack which fully described the account.  Im satisfied  that this was Bank  of Scotlands normal 
Ref: DRN17966622procedure and although I have considered carefully  what Mr L has told us, I havent seen 
anything to make me believe  that it did anything markedly  different in his case. 
In 2009, Mr L had held the fee-free account  for quite a few years, so he clearly  knew at the 
time that he didnt have  to pay fees for a bank account  and I think  its unlikely that Bank  of 
Scotland would  have  tried to switch him to the URCA without  contacting him. Mr L has told 
us that he never received the welcome pack,  but Bank of Scotland has sent us information  
from its internal records which seems to show that it did send  him one, which  suggests it 
was following its normal procedures. I think it probably did sell the URCA to Mr L according 
to these procedures  and gave Mr L a choice,  even though I fully accept  that Mr L no longer 
remembers this happening. I dont think Bank  of Scotland changed Mr Ls account without 
his permission. 
I dont know much about Mr Ls banking habits or lifestyle in 2009,  and I dont know which  of 
the possible benefits of the URCA Bank  of Scotland may have told him about.  However,  I 
think its unlikely that Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr L anything about  the URCA (after  all, it 
was trying to sell the account to him). 
Bank of Scotland has sent us copies of some  of Mr Ls bank statements, and I can see from 
these that in 2009 Mr L frequently  over drew his account by several hundred pounds.  At that 
time, the URCA allowed customers interest-free overdrafts up to a limit of £300 and lower 
interest rates than fee-free accounts  for higher amounts. 
Over the years, Bank of Scotland has changed  its fees, interest rates  and charges for 
overdrafts on both types of account,  but it seems  to me that if Bank of Scotland told Mr L 
about the potentially cheaper  overdraft he could have with an URCA, he may have  found  the 
account of interest  and chosen to switch  to it. I can see that later on Mr L made much less 
use of an overdraft and I accept that he may well not have wanted all of the other  possible 
benefits that the URCA could have provided,  but this doesnt mean that Bank of Scotland  
mis-sold the URCA  to him in 2009. 
I dont know how much, if anything, Mr L told Bank  of Scotland  about his depression  and 
about not reading correspondence, and I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have got 
everything right in the way it sold the URCA to Mr L. But as I think its unlikely that Bank  of 
Scotland switched  Mr Ls account, or started  to charge him fees, without his permission, I 
dont think that Bank  of Scotland  mis-sold  the URCA to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1796662