K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable mortgage advice by an appointed 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited.
background
Mr H had a mortgage.  When  he came to the end of his interest rate, he took advice from 
L&G. It recommended  that he move  lender,  and substantially increase his mortgage balance 
 both to consolidate unsecured debt, and to borrow money  for home  improvements.
Mr H is advised by a claims  management  company (CMC). The CMC says the mortgage  
advice was unsuitable. It was unnecessary because Mr H was managing his outgoings and 
didnt need to consolidate the debt. He could  have taken a new interest rate with his existing 
lender. And he shouldnt  have been advised to add the costs of wills advice to the mortgage 
balance. The CMC also said that fees charged,  particularly  for legal advice, were 
unnecessary and that the broker received commission for referring Mr H to solicitors without 
declaring that when  he could have  got legal advice  for free.
L&G said the advice  was suitable.  But it accepted that Mr H shouldnt have been advised  to 
add the cost of wills advice to the mortgage.  It offered  to refund the mortgage interest hed 
been charged, as well as commission it had received from a solicitor  it recommended, and 
pay £250 compensation.
Our investigator also agreed that the mortgage advice was, broadly, suitable. But he didnt  
think Mr H should have  been advised to consolidate his overdraft. Neither party accepted 
that, so the case  comes  to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the CMC  says that Mr H was managing  his outgoings and didnt need to reduce  
them. But it hasnt provided any evidence of his financial position at the time. Ive seen a 
copy of the fact find L&G took at the time, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary I 
think its likely to be correct. It shows that Mr H wasnt  managing his outgoings. Although he 
only had a relatively small mortgage,  he had substantial  unsecured  debt  and his monthly  
payments to that amounted to around  three times his mortgage payment. The fact find 
shows that his outgoings  substantially exceeded  his income each month.
Therefore, I think there was a need  for Mr H to reduce his outgoings. Realistically  the only 
way to do that was to eliminate the unsecured debt. While he could have entered  into an 
arrangement with his creditors, there are other consequences to that  which are avoided  by 
consolidating the debt to the mortgage. Consolidating brought his outgoings  down below his 
income. And while it may have resulted in more interest being payable overall  because  the 
mortgage was longer  than the loan that was consolidated, though  Mr H was only paying a 
small amount to his much more expensive credit  card  if it was I think  that was a price  Mr H 
was willing  to pay, and was worth  paying, to return  his immediate finances to a manageable 
position. However, I agree with the investigator  that the overdraft didnt need to be added.  It 
was relatively small and could have  been paid off in a matter of three  to four months. It 
wasnt necessary to add it to the mortgage balance and pay interest on it for many  years.
Ref: DRN16326622The recommended  mortgage was the cheapest of those sought,  so while Mr H could have 
stayed with his existing lender the interest would have been higher, and there was no 
guarantee it would  have  agreed the additional  borrowing.
Overall, I think the advice to take the new mortgage was suitable  in the circumstances.
However, I see no reason  why Mr H needed  to add the cost of a fairly cheap wills advice 
package to the mortgage balance. Im pleased to see that L&G has offered to refund  the 
extra interest that resulted. And its offered  to refund commission  from the solicitor, and pay 
compensation. I think thats a fair offer. As regards the other fees Mr H paid, I think  they 
were clearly set out and explained. While other  brokers may charge differently, and charge 
less, I think Mr H knew what he agreed  to. The advice was, overall, suitable and Mr H 
received the service he paid for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited  has 
made a fair and reasonable offer in respect of the will and commission and should pay that 
to Mr H, if it hasnt  already done so. In addition, it should calculate the amount of mortgage 
interest Mr H has paid on his overdraft over the period from four months after the mortgage 
completion date to date of settlement,  less the amount of overdraft interest Mr H would  have 
paid over that four month period had he paid the overdraft off in equal instalments. It should  
pay the result to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1632662