K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in May 2004. Mrs W says Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in May 2004. The policy was 
added to Mrs Ws credit card account when she applied for the card by post. The policy  cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  BOS made it clear that Mrs W didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Ive seen a copy 
of the application form that Mrs W completed  more than 15 years ago and I can see she 
ticked the section to confirm she wanted PPI before she checked and signed the credit 
agreement.
BOS didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible  the information BOS gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  she told us she 
was employed  and in good  health  so it wouldve been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
BOS got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have  told Mrs W about  that. Because  BOS didnt tell Mrs W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN11319212Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1131921