K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs D bought the policy when she took out a loan in 1992. The loan included an amount to 
pay for the policy. 
Bank of Scotland says the loan and PPI were taken out in branch, but Mrs D thinks  this was 
done over the phone. So Ive considered how Bank of Scotland sold PPI at that time both in 
branch and over the phone when making my decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint because:
Mrs D would most likely have had to sign on the loan application  form to indicate she 
wanted PPI, separately to where she signed  for the loan.  So I think  Bank  of Scotland 
made Mrs D aware  that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it out. Its understandable that Mrs D doesnt remember this given it was over 25 
years ago. 
Ive assumed that Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs D  and it seems to 
have been right for her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs D 
says she had some sick pay and savings, but the PPI couldve paid off her loan if shed 
been unable  to work because of sickness, accident, redundancy, or if shed been 
diagnosed with a serious illness or had died. That wouldve left her sick pay and savings 
available for other things. It seems likely that protecting her savings wouldve been 
important given  she chose to take out a loan at that time rather  than use her savings. 
I think Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mrs D would still have  bought  it given it cost less than £5 per month.
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Mrs D made a successful claim she 
couldve got back quite a bit more than she paid for it. 
Mrs D wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Bank  of Scotland thought  about  this when it recommended 
the policy, or if it explained the situation clearly to Mrs D. But I havent seen anything  to 
suggest she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  
wasnt right for her.
Ref: DRN16087222Its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mrs D doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of those things.
The regulators rules on undisclosed  high levels of commission  and profit-share  only 
apply to loans  taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements  taken  out before then, 
which were still running on 6 April 2008.  Mrs Ds loan was taken out in 1992  and ended  
in 1994  so these  rules dont apply. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion. Not 
all PPI policies were  mis-sold. And having considered  the evidence  in relation to the sale of 
Mrs Ds policy  I dont think this PPI was mis-sold to her. I appreciate shell  be disappointed 
by this, particularly  given how long it took Bank  of Scotland to locate  her loan account and 
respond to her complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1608722