K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1987. Mr and Mrs C say that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
A box was ticked on Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application to indicate they wanted PPI. So 
I think Santander  made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need for the cover   which wouldve paid their 
mortgage for up to 24 months if theyd needed  to claim. This wouldve protected  their 
savings and left any sick and redundancy pay available  for other  things. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve  been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them  off taking out the cover   given the importance of keeping up with their 
mortgage repayments. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said. But these  points dont change  my 
decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and, 
based on what weve seen, it looks like it is right  that Mr and Mrs Cs commission was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN18998512my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1899851