K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold  two Platinum accounts and a 
Premier account. 
background 
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service Lloyds agreed that one of the Platinum 
accounts and the Premier account  were  mis-sold  it therefore refunded all the fees for these 
accounts and added  interest  in line with our approach.  We therefore  have not looked  into 
these sales.
Given this one of our adjudicators looked  at the remaining  sale of the Platinum account 
which took place  in 2005 and she concluded that this account was not mis-sold.  Mr D did not 
agree with this and therefore his complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ds complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that Lloyds 
mis-sold the packaged  account to Mr D. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision. Ive 
started by thinking about whether Mr D was given a clear choice in taking  his packaged 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened, having weighed up what  Mr D and Lloyds 
have been able to provide me with.
In this instance Mr D has not mentioned that he was not given a fair choice to take out the 
account: his complaint seems to centre on the account not being  suitable for him. In this 
instance Lloyds  recommended the Platinum account  to him so it had to ensure that the 
account was a reasonable fit for Mr Ds circumstance at the time it was taken out.
The Platinum account in 2005  came  with a number of benefits. These included Worldwide 
Travel insurance with family cover; breakdown  cover; mobile phone cover; and an interest 
free overdraft facility  of £250. From  what  I can see Mr D did travel;  registered  a mobile 
phone; and used the breakdown cover. This suggests that Mr D had a need  for the majority 
of benefits that this account came with and therefore I dont think that this recommendation 
was inappropriate. 
I note that Mr D has explained that he suffered from a Pre-Existing medical condition which 
meant that he could  not utilise the travel  insurance.  But Lloyds notes at the time suggest that 
Mr D did not suffer from a condition at the point  the account was sold.  In any event Lloyds 
would have just needed to point  out that Mr D had to call the travel  insurer  if he suffered from 
any medical conditions.  I can see that Mr D did contact the insurer in 2006, though the 
details of this call are no longer available. But it may have been the case that this is what  he 
intended to do at this time. So overall I dont  think Lloyds did anything wrong in relation to 
this.
Ref: DRN10609702I accept that Mr D may not have been  told everything else about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything specific that he was not told that would have 
altered his decision to take out the account.
Mr D may now believe  he hasnt benefitted  from his packaged accounts as much  as hed 
hoped and expected. And given what he may have read about  packaged  bank accounts  in 
general and due to his other packaged banks being  already  refunded, I can understand why 
he might  now think  that this account was also mis-sold. But having looked at everything 
provided and thought  about what both parties have said, my independent conclusion is that I 
dont think Lloyds mis-sold this particular  account for the reasons set out above.
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept  or reject my decision 
before 1 September 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1060970