K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (under its Halifax brand) mishandled  her
application to reinstate a help to buy ISA, with the result that she lost out on the opportunity
of a government bonus of 25%.
background
Ms G had a Halifax help to buy ISA, with a balance of over £5,000.  She planned to buy a
property and, in October  2017, closed her ISA, intending to use the funds in it to pay part of 
the purchase price. Unfortunately, however, the purchase fell through when Ms G lost her 
job.
Ms G says she asked  Halifax to reinstate the help to buy ISA shortly  afterwards, and 
believed that it was processing  that application.  When she realised that wasnt  
happening, Halifax appeared to have adopted a different process, which  caused  
delays. As a result, she was unable to reinstate the account. 
Halifax offered Ms G £125 in recognition of the inconvenience to which  Ms G had been put, 
but didnt accept that it was responsible  for the fact that shed been unable  to reinstate the 
account. Ms G didnt  accept that and referred  the case to this service,  where  one of our 
investigators considered  it. He felt that the banks offer didnt go far enough and said that it 
should offer a further £500, representing  the government bonus on the sums Ms G would 
have invested  during  the delay.
Halifax didnt accept  the investigators  conclusions  and asked  that an ombudsman  review 
the case. I did that and issued a provisional decision, and Ive copied the reasons for my 
provisional findings below: 
Ill start by summarising the relevant rules about  help to buy ISAs.
After the initial deposit,  an individual  can invest  up to £200 a month  in a help to buy ISA.
Money invested in a help to buy ISA can be used  for a first-time property purchase,  in 
which case the government will pay an extra 25% of the money in the account.
If a purchase falls through after a help to buy ISA has been closed, the account can be 
reinstated within one year of closure.
The banks records show that Ms Gs account was closed on 3 October 2017. But Halifax  
has no record of any contact with Ms G after that until 6 August 2018.  Halifax says this 
indicates that Ms G didnt apply to reinstate the account at the end of October 2017 as she 
says she did. Ms G on the other  hand says that it indicates only that Halifax didnt  carry out 
her instructions or keep proper records. So I need to decide  which  is more likely.
In order  to reinstate a help to buy ISA, the customer must submit  a purchase failure notice 
(or PFN)  completed by their licensed  conveyancer. I can see that Ms Gs PFN (which Ill 
discuss in more detail  below) was signed  and dated  26 October 2017. I think  then that Ms G 
wanted to be in a position to reinstate the ISA at some point. Doing so would  have been  to 
her advantage and would have enabled her to continue to save  £200 a month  assuming 
she could still afford  to do so.
Ref: DRN16878432As Ive explained, everything invested in a help to buy ISA is potentially  worth an additional  
25% by way of government contribution. So, for each  month  that Ms G wasnt depositing 
£200 as she had been, she could  be losing £50 (not accounting for any lost interest).  In the 
circumstances, it is in my view a little odd that Ms G doesnt appear to have raised this with 
Halifax until some  10 months  later. Given the consequences of delay, I might have expected 
Ms G to take steps rather sooner to ensure that the account was reinstated.  At the very 
least, Id expect her to have expressed  some concern rather  sooner that shed had no further 
contact from Halifax about the reinstatement application.
Halifax says that the branch Ms G says she visited to arrange the accounts reinstatement 
was not in fact able to process such an application. I have no reason not to believe that. So, 
whilst I accept that Ms G may well have asked about  reinstatement  in October  2017,  I think it 
unlikely that she was told that application was being  processed.
I turn then to what Halifax did when Ms G did follow up on the reinstatement,  in August 2018. 
I can see that she was frustrated by the process and feels  that Halifax  didnt conduct 
meetings as well as she would have liked, for example. But Halifax has agreed some  
compensation for that, and I think  thats reasonable.
I do need to consider though whether the banks actions caused further delay  and 
eventually prevented Ms G from reinstating the ISA. Im not persuaded that it did. The PFN 
must be in a prescribed form and include a statement that either (i) the property purchase 
did not occur  within three months of the payment request or (ii) before that time, it became 
apparent that the purchase would not go ahead within that time. The PFN that Ms G 
submitted included the first of these  statements. This doesnt  appear to have been correct; 
the PFN was signed  less than a month after the payment had been made, so the second 
statement was the appropriate one. But in any event the bank said that the correct 
procedure was not to delete one statement, but to indicate which applied (leaving the other  
option on the form). Ms G was told that within a few days, once  her application had been  
checked. That was in early September. Similarly, the bank says there was a problem with 
the cheque Ms G submitted with the application.  I dont need to discuss the details, but in the 
case of both the cheque  and the PFN:
the bank wasnt responsible for the error;
it identified the problems and told Ms G about  them within a reasonable time; and
its likely  that the account could still have  been reinstated  within the 12 months allowed 
from the account  closure.
My provisional conclusions were that I wasnt persuaded that Ms G was told her account 
reinstatement was being processed in October  2017. When  she did apply for the account to 
be reinstated, Halifax had handled the application  fairly and hadnt been responsible for 
errors in the paperwork. I indicated that it was for Ms G to decide  whether or not to accept 
the banks offer of £125 to resolve the complaint  but I didnt require it to do any more. 
Ms G didnt accept my provisional  conclusions and, in response  to them,  said:
When she went to a branch in October 2017, she took the PFN with her. She was told 
that the branch would arrange for a copy to be sent to head office and that Halifax  
would be in touch to confirm reinstatement  of the account. Until August 2018 she 
assumed that her application  was being dealt with. 
Ref: DRN16878433In February 2019 she had requested CCTV footage to demonstrate  that she did visit the 
branch in October  2017, but received no response.  
Between  October 2017 and August  2018 she sent several chasers to Halifaxs Twitter 
handle, but received no meaningful  response. Shes deleted those tweets. She also 
made telephone calls, but her phone  provider cant  provide records,  and again Halifax  
hasnt responded  to requests  for copies of its own records.
She contacted Halifax  on 30 July 2018, as demonstrated by her phone call history.
Ms G also provided further  detail  about  the meetings  that took place from August 2018.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, however, I havent  been 
persuaded that I should change the overall conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
Ms G has provided a little more information about her recollection of the meeting in October 
2017 when, she says, the branch told her it was arranging for reinstatement  documents  to 
be sent to head office. As I said in my provisional  decision, Halifax has no record of any 
application being made at that time. So, either  its records are incomplete or Ms G is 
mistaken in her recollection  of what happened towards the end of October  2017. 
Having considered very carefully the evidence about this, Im not persuaded that Ms G was 
told in October 2017 that the account  was being reinstated.  I dont doubt that she asked 
about reinstatement  since shed  ensured she had a PFN  but she says an application was 
processed. She hasnt said however that shed funded the reinstated  account, either by 
returning the original investment or by setting up a monthly payment. She says that she 
followed up on the application through the Halifax Twitter handle  and by phone, but knew  
that processes  can take some time. If however there  was an application to open  or reinstate 
an account, I would have expected her to follow that up rather sooner and more directly.  So, 
whilst I have no reason to doubt Ms Gs own recollection of events, I dont believe that 
recollection is accurate.  
Ive noted too what  Ms G has said about events from the end of July 2018. Its clear  that 
things didnt progress  as smoothly as she would have hoped. There  were problems with 
paperwork and with arranging meetings  that were convenient for both her and for Halifax.  As 
Ive indicated, however,  I dont believe  Halifax was responsible for the clerical  errors in the 
PFN or the cheque. And, even if Halifax had identified those errors sooner  as Ms G says it 
should have done  she would still have had to arrange for them  to be corrected. And when 
Halifax did identify them, there was still time to reinstate the account within the twelve  
months allowed. That the account  wasnt reinstated within that time was not, in my view, the 
fault of Halifax.     
I remain of the view, therefore, that the offer of £125 Halifax has made is a fair one, and I 
leave it to Ms G to decide whether shes prepared  to settle her complaint on that basis.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to do any more  to resolve Ms 
Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms 
G to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Ref: DRN16878434Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1687843