K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy Ageas  Insurance Limited has turned  down the claim he made  on his 
furniture warranty insurance  policy.
background
Mr S noticed  scuff marks on his sofa where the leather was peeling, he made a claim on his 
policy for accidental  damage. 
Ageas gave Mr S the option of sending out an engineer  to look at the damage  or he could 
send a photo of it. Mr S chose to send a photo.  Ageas  also asked Mr S to explain how he 
thought the damage had occurred. Mr S said someone sitting  on his sofa caused it. Having 
reviewed the photo and the information Mr S had given, Ageas declined  the claim. It said 
peeling was not an insured peril under his policy. It did however offer to send a technician  
out to inspect the sofa to confirm the damage and if it was covered.
Mr S was unhappy with Ageas response  and brought his complaint to us. He said the 
damage to his sofa was scuffs and/or rips and tears which he believes are covered under 
the policy. Mr S also said the policy made no mention of peeling leather  being excluded.
In the meantime, Mr S made two further  claims on his policy.  One for a pen mark, which 
Ageas sent out a stain remover kit for.  And, a further claim for a number of scratches on 
each side of the sofa. 
Ageas sent out a technician to inspect the scratch marks on the sofa. The technician  said 
the scratches were  more  likely than not caused over time through  the normal use of the sofa. 
Ageas declined the claim, as there was an exclusion on the policy  for wear  and tear.  
Our investigator looked at the two claims and let Mr S know  she thought Ageas had acted 
reasonably in turning them down. Mr S didnt  agree  and asked for the complaint to be looked 
at by an ombudsman.  
As part of the investigation, Mr S provided  some further information. He said the first claim,  
for the scuffs that were  peeling,  was caused  by a worker sitting down on the sofa with tools  
in his back pocket.  He assumes he moved  around  and that is why the damage  was in 
different places. He said the damage on the second  claim  was caused during a family  
gathering. People  were  wearing clothing  with beads, sequins and zips and were  eating 
snacks on the sofa with cutlery.  He believes the combination of the clothing  and utensils 
used, caused  the sudden  damage to the sofa.  
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms are clear  that accidental damage is only covered where  it is caused  by a 
sudden and unexpected event resulting in a rip, tear, burn, scratch,  puncture or scuff.
Ref: DRN17349292The policy excludes  damage caused by wear and tear consistent with the initial quality of the 
product and the manner in which the product  is used.
Ageas is free to decide what risks it will and wont cover under the policy  and the terms and 
conditions of the policy will define what those are. What I need  to decide is if Ageas has 
acted in line with the policy terms and, if its decision to decline the claims is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
the first claim
Mr S provided Ageas with a photo of the damage  caused to his sofa for his first claim. He 
reported the damage as being scuff  marks that were peeling.
Ageas has said peeling leather isnt an insured peril under the policy. Mr S has said the 
policy doesnt mention that peeling isnt covered so he thinks  it should be as it was sudden  
and unexpected. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I agree with Ageas here, insurance policies 
arent designed to cover  every eventuality and the policy here is clear about which resulting 
damage is covered.  Peeling isnt one of them.  
Mr S has said the damage should be treated as being scuffs  and/or rips as it was caused by 
a worker sitting on the sofa with tools in his pocket. Mr S however hasnt been  able to say 
what those tools were  or how they would have caused the damage  to the sofa through the 
workers trousers. 
Having looked  at the photo, it does look like the leather has peeled  and as such  I dont  think  
Ageas has acted unreasonably  here in turning  down  Mr S claim.  Ageas did offer to send a 
technician out to Mr S to inspect the sofa and confirm the damage.  Saying  it would  reassess 
the claim should the technician believe the damage to be something else.  I think  this was a 
reasonable proposal in the circumstances.
Having considered everything, I think Ageas has acted reasonably in turning down Mr S first 
claim so I wont  be asking  it to do anything more here.
the second claim
Ageas sent a technician out to look at Mr S sofa. The technician took down details about 
how and when the damage  happened, and he took photos of the damage.  The technician  
reported there were  four separate  areas of damage  to the sofa.  Two areas  where it was 
scuffed and two areas  where there were nicks in the leather. The technician reported that in 
his opinion the damage was consistent  with normal  wear and tear and local conditions  just 
from using the sofa.  The technician didnt think the damage could  be classed as accidental  
damage. 
Based on this report, Ageas declined  the claim. Mr S disagrees with the technician  and 
reiterates the damage was caused  suddenly by clothing his guests were wearing and the 
utensils they were using.  He also said he doesnt think the technician  was independent or 
suitably qualified to comment on the damage.
I have to make my decision  on what I think is most likely to have happened,  based on the 
evidence available  to me. While I appreciate Mr S may not agree with me, I am more 
persuaded by the report provided by the technician. The report  is detailed,  it includes 
pictures and provides reasoning for the opinion given.  Ive seen nothing which would lead 
Ref: DRN17349293me to question the ability of the technician  to perform his role. In fact, I think  its most  likely  
he would  be experienced in examining  furniture and providing his opinion on the types  of 
damage Mr S reported. 
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to rely on the exclusion for wear  and tear and I 
wont be looking to interfere in Ageas  decision to decline Mr S second claim.  Mr S sofa was 
around three  years old and some signs of use are to be expected.  
my final decision
I reject  Mr S complaint  against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1734929