K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) which was a paid-for packaged  bank account.
background
Mr H complained to Halifax about  his URCA. It didnt agree it had done anything wrong so 
he brought his complaint to this Service. One of our adjudicators has already looked  into 
Mr Hs complaint and recommended that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr H doesnt accept  our adjudicators assessment.  As his complaint hasnt been  resolved 
informally its come to me - an ombudsman - for a final decision,
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out on our website about our approach to complaints 
about packaged bank accounts. 
And after giving Mr Hs complaint a lot of thought, I havent seen enough to conclude that the 
URCA was mis-sold to him. I realise that hell be disappointed. But I hope  that my 
explanation below will help him understand how Ive come to this conclusion.
At the outset I want to say that I dont doubt Mr H has provided his honest recollections. But 
Im also mindful that memories can and do fade over the years. Mr H first complained to 
Halifax in 2018.  He told us that he thought  the account had been sold around 15 years ago. 
Mr Hs account had been opened as a free current account in 2002  but it wasnt upgraded to 
an URCA until 2010. I dont find these sorts of inconsistencies at all surprising because  
events were so long ago.
However, where the evidence is unclear or there are conflicts  between  what  the parties say I 
make my decision  based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I look at what  
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
Mr H opened his account with Halifax as a free account in 2002. It was upgraded  as I say 
above  to the URCA in February 2010. That was when Mr H began  to pay £12.50  per 
month for his URCA. I understand that Mr H downgraded his account  to a free one in 
February 2019. 
Mr H says that he was told that he had no choice  but to take the paid-for account. This was 
something to do with the amount of money  he was paying  into his account.  So his 
recollection is that he wasnt given a fair choice. He adds  that he had no need  of any of the 
insurance-type benefits and hasnt relied  on them. 
Halifax has shown us Mr Hs signed request to change your current account form. This 
contains a number of tick boxes and asks the customer  to tick the account  they currently  
have and the one they want  to move to. I note that free alternatives were offered on this 
form, but the tick is entered in the URCA box. 
Ref: DRN13165512I dont think its likely  that Halifax wouldve told Mr H that it was removing his free account 
but then ask him to complete a form on which there were options to tick for a free account. I 
accept its possible.  But I think its more likely that Halifax told Mr H about the URCA and he 
opted to upgrade - aware he didnt have to - because  it offered benefits he was interested  in 
for a price  he found reasonable.  He didnt have to want or need all the benefits to find the 
account, as a package, attractive. 
The URCA did offer a number of benefits  including worldwide family travel insurance,  car 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance,  purchase protection and home emergency 
cover. It also provided a discount card for attractions.  And it offered a preferential overdraft. 
I dont know what it was about the URCA  which  attracted Mr H. Hes told us he did go on 
holidays and that he had a mobile phone.  So its possible  that he may have thought  those 
would be useful. The cost of the account  was £12.50 per month. But if a customer  paid into 
their URCA more  than £1,000 per month then they would receive  a reward  into their account 
of £5.  Mr Hs account was credited with £5 each  month as a reward because  he did pay in 
more than £1,000 per month. So in effect  the cost of the account was £7.50  for the relatively  
comprehensive suite of benefits I've referred to above.
With all this in mind  I dont think I can safely conclude that Halifax  failed to give Mr H a fair 
choice about upgrading as he recalls. 
As well as offering  Mr H a fair choice about taking the account, Halifax  had some  other  
obligations. If it recommended  it to him, it had to take steps to ensure that it was appropriate 
for him in his circumstances. And whether  or not it made a recommendation, it had to give 
Mr H enough clear  information about  it so he could make an informed decision about 
whether it was right for him.
Halifax says it wouldnt have provided advice to Mr H. He says it wasnt recommended   he 
was given no choice.  I dont think it makes a difference to my decision.  This is because it 
seems he did have  a requirement for at least some  of the benefits.  And I havent  seen  
anything about  Mr Hs circumstances or the terms of the benefits which wouldve meant he 
couldnt have  relied on them if hed wanted to. As I think he chose to upgrade,  it was a 
matter for him whether  he relied on the benefits.  But I dont think  that, even if Halifax 
recommended the account to Mr H, it was inappropriate for it to do so.
I accept its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mr H all the details behind the benefits which 
came with the URCA but as I havent seen  anything to suggest  that he couldnt use them,  I 
dont think hed have  made a different decision about upgrading even if it had given him 
better information. 
I acknowledge that Mr H feels strongly  that hes been paying for an account and he hasnt 
used the benefits. But it was open to him to rely on some of the benefits if hed wanted  to  
for example he had the reassurance of travel insurance, home  emergency  cover and mobile 
phone insurance   even if he didnt ever make a claim.
Im sorry  that this wont be the outcome  Mr H was hoping for. But having considered 
everything Im not persuaded to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN13165513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1316551