K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Lloyds and were sold the PPI in connection with this 
mortgage in 1996.
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the PPI only covered Mr C. It would have 
provided a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months if Mr C was off work sick or lost his job.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr C was eligible  for the policy.  I havent seen a copy  of 
the actual policy document  but I have  looked  at the closest available  policy  document to the 
time of the sale and used my knowledge of other policies from around at the time of the sale 
to help me decide if Mr C would have been  eligible. And based on Mr Cs age and 
circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr C would have been eligible.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the PPI was optional  and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Mr and Mrs C say they werent  given a 
choice about taking PPI and were  told they had to take it out. Lloyds  disagree.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. Ordinarily  in such cases  I would look to 
the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what  is more likely to have 
happened. But unfortunately Lloyds no longer have documents from the time of sale.  
However, this is understandable given the length of time since the sale,  so I cant hold this 
against Lloyds.  But what it does mean  is that I dont have sufficient evidence  to be able to 
conclude that the PPI wasnt presented as optional or that Mr and Mrs C didnt choose to 
take it out. 
Lloyds dont know how the policy was sold. But to be fair to Mr and Mrs C they are treating it 
as an advised  sale. This holds  them  to a higher bar compared to if they were treating as a 
non-advised sale. It means they would have  had to take adequate steps to ensure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. I dont know whether they took all the steps as they should 
Ref: DRN13445252have but based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I think  it was 
suitable for them.  I say this because:
Mr C doesnt appear  to have been  affected by the terms common  in PPI policies which 
would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy.
Mr C hasnt told us about  any sick pay entitlement he would have  had from his 
employer. However,  even if Mr C was entitled to employee sick pay, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to this and likely for a longer period of time. It would also 
have paid out if he lost his job. I understand  that Mr C did make a successful 
redundancy claim under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing  out financially 
if they no longer  needed or wanted  it.
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs C have told us about finances  but the PPI wasnt 
particularly expensive  and I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to conclude that it was 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C at the time of the sale. 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, Lloyds also had to give them  
clear enough information  so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about  the costs, benefits  and main exclusions under the policy.
I dont  think Lloyds  did give Mr and Mrs C all of the information as they should have. But this 
in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold  as I have  to go on and consider  whether better  
information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better  information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
So I dont  think Lloyds  mis-sold Mr and Mrs C this PPI policy .
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs C some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
dont need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI they had with that 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN13445253my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1344525