K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about the way National  Westminster Bank  plc dealt with her credit  card 
account after she fell into financial  difficulties.  
background
Miss A had a credit card account and a loan with NatWest. Following a change  in 
circumstances, she fell behind with her credit  card payments. In April 2018 NatWest  issued a 
default notice.  Miss A contacted the bank and agreed  a repayment plan. Shes explained 
that a family member  had offered to help with the payments, but wasnt then able to, and so 
she fell behind with the plan. 
In August  2018  the account  was terminated  and passed to a debt collection agency. 
Miss A says that she had increased  the loan payments  when shed received a pay rise, but 
NatWest wouldnt let her reduce them when she was struggling with her credit  card account. 
Had she been able to do that, she could  have made  the payments she needed to make  to 
the credit  card account. She also feels that the bank  has been  inflexible  and that 
communicating with it and with the debt collection agency has been  difficult. She hasnt 
received some documents the bank says it sent,  and the debt collection agency has tried to 
contact her using her parents telephone number. 
When she was unable  to resolve things directly  with the bank, Miss A referred the case  to 
this service. One of our investigators  considered it, but didnt think  that NatWest had treated 
Miss A unfairly. Miss A didnt accept the investigators conclusions  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case  as the final stage in our process.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did.
First, I have a good deal of sympathy for Miss A. A change in her circumstances  meant that 
she started to struggle  financially,  when previously shed been  able to manage her debt. And 
I believe too that shes been  open  and honest  with the bank about her situation.  
The investigator felt that the bank had reacted in a positive and sympathetic manner once it 
knew that Miss A was in financial difficulty. I share that assessment; NatWest  agreed a 
repayment plan with her, and for a short while it appeared as if that might have been 
successful. 
The banks records indicate that it tried to contact Miss A when  the repayment plan was 
broken. Although Miss A says she didnt receive letters, I think it more  likely than not that 
they were sent.  In any event, whether or not Miss A received letters, she knew what  the 
repayment arrangement  was and that she hadnt  managed to keep  up the payments. 
Theres no reason, in my view, to believe she would have been  better  placed  to make 
payments had she received letters; nor does it appear that the bank would have been 
prepared to accept  a further reduction in payments. 
Miss A is unhappy too that a default has been  registered on her credit file. I agree  with the 
investigator that her file does reflect the correct  position. NatWest  and the debt collection 
Ref: DRN16247272agency are under a duty to record accurate information (in part, for the benefit of other 
prospective lenders),  and I cant properly say that the information  recorded is not accurate. 
The default  may make it more difficult for Miss A to borrow more,  from NatWest or any other  
lender, but that isnt a reason for me to require it to be removed. 
I understand why Miss A thinks that, having made some overpayments to the loan, it would 
subsequently be fair to let her reduce payments. But the loan agreement  provides for fixed  
payments each month, and I see no reason why NatWest should  allow  Miss A to pay less 
than she agreed to pay when she took the loan out.
I have no doubt  that Miss A has had the communication difficulties shes  explained and that 
she may have received  apparently conflicting  and confusing information about what the bank 
(and the collection agency) was prepared to do to help. Overall,  though,  I dont believe shes  
been treated unfairly. I would of course remind NatWest of its continuing obligation to act in 
sympathetic manner towards  a customer in financial difficulty, but I dont propose  to make 
any award in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not require  National  Westminster Bank  plc to do anything further 
to resolve Miss As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1624727