K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as 
Everyday Loans) provided to him in June  2018. He says that the loan was unaffordable.
background
Mr W was provided  with a loan for £2,000.00  in June 2018. The loan had an APR of 249.5%  
and required  24 monthly repayments of £249.24.  The cost of the credit was £3,981.76, 
which meant that total amount to be repaid was £5,981.76. 
When it investigated Mr Ws complaint, Everyday Loans didnt think  itd done anything wrong 
when lending to Mr W. Mr W was dissatisfied with this and referred his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators then looked at Mr Ws complaint. She thought  that 
Everyday Loans  had unfairly provided Mr W with his loan and upheld the complaint. 
Everyday Loans  didnt accept our investigators  assessment. As Everyday Loans disagreed  
with our investigator the case was passed to an ombudsman.
 
the regulatory and legal framework
Everyday Loans  was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
when it lent to Mr W. The relevant rules and regulations  FCA regulated firms are required to 
follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.  
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Everyday Loans. 
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out 
a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) first published in March  2010 and the rules  set out in 
CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules 
specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on 
many occasions.
Ref: DRN10636592Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
Ref: DRN10636593(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr Ws loan was provided after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit  Act came into force  on   
6 April 2007. 
Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine  that the relationship 
between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor.  Section  140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
Ref: DRN10636594(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
Ive also taken account of the Consumer Credit Act (including the provisions  I havent  set out 
above), and other relevant  legislation, including the law relating  to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract;  as well as the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Ref: DRN10636595other relevant publications  and good industry  practice
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers have to 
adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And as Ive explained, Im also 
required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice,  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all 
firms allocated to the High  Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter  set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may not be 
able to afford.
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
Ref: DRN10636596We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  industry  practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr W would  be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do so?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Everyday Loans did not act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr W 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr W would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday  Loans  was lending to Mr W required it to carry out 
a reasonable assessment of whether Mr W could afford to repay his loans in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Everyday Loans had to 
think about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr W. In other  words,  it wasnt enough for Everyday  Loans  to think only 
about the likelihood that it would get its money  back without considering the impact  of 
repayment on Mr W himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check will more likely  than not look different for different 
loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
Ref: DRN10636597the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Its my understanding that Mr W was asked to provide details of his monthly  income and 
monthly expenditure. Ive also seen that Everyday Loans carried  out a credit check. The 
information provided also indicates  that Everyday Loans was told Mr W was paying £475 a 
month in rent. And it assumed that Mr W would use 35% of his income to pay for living 
expenses. The income and expenditure assessment provided suggested Mr W would have a 
remaining monthly disposable income  of £9.89 after the payments for this loan were made.
Ive carefully thought  about the checks Everyday Loans says it carried out.
Bearing in mind its response to our investigator, I think that itd be helpful  for me to start by 
explaining that Everyday Loans  was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably 
make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments  being  affordable  on this basis 
might be an indication that a consumer could  sustainably make the repayments. But it 
doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.  
This is because CONC defines sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that if a lender  realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  
wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  
their repayments without borrowing further.   
And I dont  think that Everyday Loans could fairly and reasonably have  concluded that Mr W 
would be able to sustainably make the repayments  to this loan, when its own assessment  
concluded that hed have  less than £10 left over once the payments to this loan were  
factored in. 
Ref: DRN10636598I say this because  Everyday Loans  expenditure assessment  was not thorough enough to 
have captured  all of his committed  expenditure. Indeed Everyday Loans only assumed a 
percentage off Mr Ws income  was going towards  his existing living  expenses. Given  that 
Everyday Loans  contact notes suggest that it had copies of Mr Ws bank statements, Im 
unsure as to why it needed to estimate Mr Ws living expenses when it had clear information  
on this. I also find it unreasonable for Everyday Loans to have proceeded on this basis  when 
the purpose of this loan was recorded as a deposit for a house purchase. And, in my view,  
Everyday Loans  simply asking whether Mr Ws mortgage payments would be cheaper than 
his self-declared rent didnt  go far enough.   
So to sum up, Im concerned  that Everyday Loans decision to lend to Mr W was based  on a 
conclusion that Mr W would, at best,  just about be able to make the repayment to this loan 
on a pounds and pence basis. And even then this was based on an estimate of his living  
expenses, which was unlikely to have  captured all of Mr Ws living  costs  and any reasonable 
assessment of the information to hand ought  to have  alerted it to the fact that it was 
overoptimistic. I think that Everyday Loans  decision to proceed with Mr Ws application  on 
this basis meant that it didnt complete  reasonable or proportionate  checks for Mr Ws loan.
Would proportionate checks on these loans have indicated to Everyday Loans that Mr W 
would have been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for these loans, I cant say for sure what  they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have told Everyday Loans that it was unfair to give these loans  to Mr W, given 
his financial circumstances at the time. Mr W has provided us with evidence  of his financial  
circumstances at the time he applied for these  loans.
Of course,  I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something  
shows up in the information Mr W has provided,  it doesnt mean  it wouldve shown up in any 
checks Everyday Loans mightve carried out. But in the absence  of anything else from 
Everyday Loans  showing what  steps  it took to verify the information  provided (and how it 
interpreted it), I think its fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Ws financial circumstances were likely to have been  at the time. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr Ws provided and Ive also thought about 
everything both parties have said. Having done  so, I dont think Mr W had the capacity to 
take on these  loans. 
The information Ive seen indicates  that Mr W had significant debts with a number of existing 
creditors. He had a payday loan that he was in an arrangement  to pay for. Indeed as our 
investigator pointed  out Mr Ws arrangement would have seen him take a further three years 
to repay  a loan that was supposed to be repaid in a month. Mr W was also in arrears on his 
water, electricity and council tax bills. So even from a creditworthiness  point of view, I 
struggle to see how Everyday Loans  would have considered that there  was a reasonable 
prospect of it receiving  its loan repayments  when Mr W was already unable to make 
payments to priority creditors. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think there  was no reasonable prospect of Mr W 
being able to make his payments without  undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as I think 
that proportionate and reasonable checks would  have shown Everyday Loans all of this, it 
follows that I think proportionate and reasonable checks wouldve alerted it to the fact that 
Mr W wouldnt have  been able to sustainably make the repayments to these loans.  
Ref: DRN10636599Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude that Everyday  Loans  acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W 
in some other way.  
So I find that Everyday  Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some 
other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
six of this decision, I think that Everyday Loans  unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr W 
with this loan.  As Mr W is being  expected to pay interest and charges on a loan he shouldnt 
have been given, I think that he lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong. 
So I think that Everyday  Loans now needs  to put things right.
fair compensation  what  Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr W.
Having carefully considered everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for Everyday  Loans to remove all the interest  and 
charges added to Mr Ws loan from the outset. In other words, Everyday Loans needs to 
make sure that Mr W pays back no more than the £2000  he was provided  with. Id also 
remind Everyday Loans of its obligations to treat Mr W positively and sympathetically should 
he be experiencing financial difficulty. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint. Everyday Lending Limited  
(trading as Everyday Loans) should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1063659