K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  Tesco  Underwriting  Limited. They arent  happy  about 
the way it settled a claim under their house insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their house  insurance policy  after the theft of belongings 
from their garden storage units.  The claim was delayed  while  Mr and Mrs M decided  whether 
they wanted to advance  the claim given the excess of £500 and the affect a claim would 
have on their future premiums.
When they advanced the claim  Tesco  appointed a loss adjuster and concluded that the 
claim was genuine.  But it went onto decide  that it would limit the claim  to £1000 with a £500 
excess. This was because it said that the claim fell under the contents in the open part of 
the policy which was limited to £1000.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Tesco about  the service that was provided, about the claim 
being limited to £1000 and about  the fact they werent told about the limit on the policy  when 
they first looked into claiming. Tesco acknowledged that it shouldve communicated more  
clearly with Mr and Mrs M. So it said it would waive the excess and pay the £1000 maximum 
under the contents in the open part of the policy and £100 compensation. But it maintained 
that it was right to settle the claim  in line with the contents  in the open part of the policy.  So 
Mr and Mrs M complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for them  and upheld the complaint. She thought  that 
Tesco should settle the claim  in full as the items  were stolen from a structure that was 
equivalent to a garden shed (which wouldve been  covered  under the policy).  And that it was 
entitled to charge the excess in line with the policy if it was meeting the claim in full.
As Tesco didnt  agree  the matter has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
I know that Tesco feels that it should  deal with this claim under the contents in the open 
part of the policy that would limit the claim to £1000.  But it is clear that the structures  from 
which the various items of garden items  and personal items were  stolen  compare to a 
garden shed. Tesco  believe  that as the structures  werent secured to the floor that they were 
contents in the open.
But the storage  containers were quite large  and wouldve  had to have been dismantled to be 
removed. So I think that they are akin to a garden shed, which may or may not be secured to 
the floor. And it is clear  that the thieves  broke  into the storage units to steal the items so I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to limit the claim as contents  in the open. 
So I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
to deal with the claim in line with how the policy would deal with a theft from a garden shed. 
And the policy says that theft from the main buildings  and other permanent structures within 
the boundary,  including sheds, would be met.
Ref: DRN18801422So I think that the claim should be met in full in line with the findings of Tescos loss adjuster.
As the policy had a £500 excess and the claim should be paid in full I think it is only fair that 
Tesco can charge the excess.  I dont propose  to interfere with the £100 compensation figure 
Tesco has offered for the poor service and miscommunication around the policy limit, as I 
think that is fair in the circumstances and has clearly  caused Mr and Mrs M stress  and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that uphold this complaint. I require 
Tesco Underwriting Limited  to settle  the claim in full and pay 8% simple interest on any 
outstanding amount from the time of claim to the date of settlement. Plus £100 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1880142