K822xcomplaint
Miss Hs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  her plumbing and drainage policy  
with Aviva Insurance Limited. Aviva  uses agents to handle claims on its behalf. All 
references to Aviva  in this decision  should be read as including  those claims-handling  
agents. 
background 
The mains  water supply pipe to Miss Hs home  was apparently leaking in January 2017.  She 
was informed of this by her water supplier. The water supplier eventually repaired that leak 
and also recommended that Miss H take out the policy  with Aviva to cover  any future leaks.  
Miss H took out the policy in October  2017. There was then another leak in the supply pipe 
in June 2018. After initially  refusing, Aviva attended  and repaired  the leak in July 2018. In 
August 2018,  the water  supplier told Miss H and a neighbour that the pipe serving both their 
properties was leaking again. The neighbour took out a policy with Aviva  and it agreed  to 
come out again  and fix the leak. But there was another leak in September  2018. The 
engineer that attended said hed look into replacing the water supply pipe, to prevent future 
leaks. Aviva  confirmed the pipe would be replaced, if the neighbouring property made a 
claim on their policy. Miss H's neighbour made a claim  and Aviva  said it would replace the 
supply pipe on 23 October 2018. 
On 19 October 2018, Aviva told Miss H that a digger would be delivered to her house on
22 October 2018, ready for the work  to start the next day. She was told the hire company 
would call her to confirm  the arrangements but she did not receive a call. While  she was at 
work on 22 October 2018, Miss H says Aviva  called to say the hire company was outside her 
house and she had to sign for the digger and collect the keys. 
On 23 October 2018, two engineers arrived but they said they didnt think they could start 
work, as the digger hadnt arrived  which wasnt the case. The engineers  then said it would 
be better to close the road and inform the council and Miss Hs neighbours by letter, before 
work could  begin.  Miss H was not happy  that this had not been  planned  for before  making  
the appointment and delivering the digger. 
Miss H was apparently  assured the pipe would still be replaced but the engineers  left site to 
make enquiries with the local authority  for permission to replace the section  of pipe under 
the road. Miss H was left with the digger on her property and she had to make arrange for 
the hire company to collect it. 
The leak was also still ongoing, so Miss H contacted Aviva again on 29 October 2018 about 
this. Aviva sent contractors to fix the leak on her section of pipe and also a section on the 
neighbours pipe. 
Miss H says that it started  leaking again the next day but, for some reason the water supplier 
fixed it. 
A couple of weeks later,  Miss H phoned  for an update about replacement of the pipe.  Aviva  
initially told her that the policy doesnt  cover work on any part of the pipe which  is outside  her 
property boundary. After  further investigation,  it said that it would  not be able to go ahead 
with replacing the pipe,  as part of it is on an unoccupied road;  the local authority denies its 
responsible for the road and Aviva cant find out who is. Aviva said it cant carry out any 
Ref: DRN19959732work, without permission from the road owner or council to close  the road and replace  the 
pipe. 
Miss H is unhappy with the service provided  by Aviva in the handling of the claim, as 
outlined above,  as well as other  issues, including:  sending  her policy  documents  to her late 
mothers address (which she says prevented her from being able to use the online services 
for the policy, as her information was incorrect);  a general lack of communication;  being told 
different things by different members  of staff; Aviva staff not knowing what  the policy 
covered; having  to take two days off work  to sort out the digger and another two days  waiting 
for engineers.
 
Aviva said it needs permission from whoever owns the road but she has researched it and 
according to the Land Registry no-one owns the road.
Aviva says the policy does not cover "any work required on a water supply pipe outside the 
boundary of your property  where you share legal responsibility for the water  supply pipe with 
any third party(ies) who does not agree to the work being completed by our engineers".  
Until responsibility for the unoccupied road can be ascertained, it says it cant  do the work. 
Aviva has said that it will attend to repair any further  leaks within  Miss Hs property. Aviva 
does accept, however,  that it provided Miss H with conflicting information  as to
whether the pipe would  be replaced  which had led her to believe that the pipe would be
replaced. It has offered  Miss H £150 in compensation.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He did not consider that Aviva  was acting 
unreasonably in not agreeing to replace  the pipe. The adjudicator did however recommend 
that Aviva  should pay increased compensation of £250, as he didnt  think  that Avivas offer 
of £150 adequately compensated Miss H for the trouble and upset caused.  
Aviva accepted the adjudicators assessment but Miss H did not, so the matter  has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs policy  covers  various plumbing  and drainage problems including  repairs of her 
water supply pipe but this over is subject to conditions, including the following: 
What isnt covered
e) costs which exceed your fair share of the cost of any work undertaken by us under the 
terms of this policy on a water supply pipe outside  the boundary of your property  where you 
share legal responsibility  for the water  supply pipe with any third party(ies). Your fair share 
will be /calculated  as the total cost of the work divided by the number of parties  (including  
you) that are responsible for the water  supply pipe and benefit from the repair. Work will not 
commence until all parties have  given their consent  to pay their fair share;
f) any work required on a water supply  pipe outside the boundary  of your property where  you 
share legal responsibility  for the water  supply pipe with any third party(ies) who does not 
agree to the work  being  completed by our engineers.
Ref: DRN19959733So the policy  will only cover repairs to shared pipework outside  the boundary of Miss Hs 
property, if the owner of the land/that section of pipe agrees to the work  being carried  out 
and contributes  to the cost of the repair. I dont consider  this to be inherently unfair. Miss H 
says the road outside her home isnt owned by anyone  but that doesnt mean Aviva should  
be required  to disregard the above terms. 
Aviva has confirmed it will continue to repair any leaks on the supply pipe that are on       
Miss Hs land but it cant dig up a pipe on land that doesnt belong to her, without the owners  
permission. I do not therefore consider I can require Aviva to replace the water  supply pipe 
unless and until this issue is resolved.  
I do however agree  with the adjudicator that Avivas offer of compensation is not sufficient to 
reflect the trouble caused  to her by its handling  of the claim. It seems to me that Aviva  
should have checked the position with ownership of the road before arranging the 
appointment and the digger to be delivered. Miss H was put to the trouble of sorting out the 
digger as well as the other issues she has raised.  I consider that the £250 proposed by the 
adjudicator is appropriate,  having  taken all the circumstances into account.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Aviva Insurance Limited in part and require it to pay Miss H 
the sum of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling  of 
this claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1995973