K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mr W says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
Mr W completed his application for his credit card and PPI by post.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr W says that he had to take PPI in order to get his credit card.  He also says that he 
originally contacted Barclays by phone, to ask about applying, and that he was told that if he 
didnt take out the PPI, it may hinder the chance  of getting the card.
Barclays has provided a copy of Mr Ws credit  card application. The PPI is presented as 
optional, and has been selected  with a tick, and Mr W has signed the application, agreeing  
to the information on it. It is possible that Mr W spoke with Barclays about making an 
application before  he was sent his application,  but theres no record of what was said. And I 
can see on the application that the credit card is pre-approved  and theres no mention  of 
taking PPI having any influence on this. If Mr W was told differently, I think he wouldve  
questioned this at the time.
So taking everything in to account,  I think that Barclays made it clear that Mr W didnt have 
to take the PPI, and that he chose  to do so, although I can understand why he may not 
remember, given how long ago it was. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but these points dont change  my decision,  and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Barclays doesnt need to refund what  
Mr W paid for it. 
But Barclays  has offered  to pay Mr W £500 in recognition of delays in its complaint handling.
Mr W has accepted this offer, but still wanted  us to consider his mis-sale  complaint, which  I 
have now done.
Ref: DRN15017762Barclays will make  arrangements to pay Mr W now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1501776