K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about poor claims handling under  his roadside assistance policy, 
underwritten by Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas), when his car broke  down 
abroad and he asked for assistance under his policy. He is represented in bringing  this 
complaint by his wife, Mrs N.
background
In July 2018 Mr N was on a camping holiday in Europe with three of his children when his 
car broke down. The key was jammed in the ignition  and couldnt be moved. This meant the 
automatic transmission was locked in Park, and the steering lock was locked on with the 
front wheels on full right turn. He called Acromas for assistance.
Mr N had had a similar problem with a previous  car in the UK when he had got a mobile 
locksmith to come and fit a replacement  ignition lock. He wanted  Acromas to arrange  a 
similar service.  Acromas said it couldnt do that, but would arrange for his car and 
passengers to be uplifted to a nearby campsite. Although he was worried  about  damage this 
might cause to his car, Mr N agreed to this.
To summarise his complaints about what  followed, Mr N says:
the recovery truck that Acromas sent only had seats for two passengers, not four. 
This meant the journey  to the campsite  was unsafe, and probably illegal;
Acromas said the only way for the ignition lock to be repaired was for the car to be 
uplifted to an Acromas nominated garage;
Mr N was quoted  a cost for a replacement lock which he thought  was high but agreed  
to. He continued on his camping holiday with Mrs N and their children in a hire car 
which Acromas  arranged;
when Mrs N rang Acromas about a week later to check the car had been repaired 
and was ready for their return journey to the UK, she was told the garage  hadnt been 
able to carry out the repair.  Its supplier was saying the replacement  lock needed 
programming and there  wasnt  time for this to be done before it shut down for 
holidays;
of various options discussed with Acromas, they eventually agreed that the car would  
have to be left at the garage for the time being, and Acromas  arranged air and train 
tickets for the remaining  members of the family back to the UK;
because the car hire and services Acromas  had already provided had used up most 
of their allowance under the policy Mrs N had to agree  to pay £183.68 towards the 
fares;
the car was returned to their house  in the UK some 10 days  later. They  received no 
advance warning that it was about  to be delivered;
when they inspected the car on its return they found the automatic gearbox had been 
damaged, the selector lever had been  forced and bent and the car was now in 
neutral. The age of the car, some  23 years old, meant replacement  parts  were no 
longer available from the manufacturer. They had to fit a used gearbox as a 
replacement. They consider this meant the car was no longer safe for long journeys 
and was unsaleable; and
Acromass  failure to arrange  for their car to be repaired efficiently meant part of their 
holiday was wasted,  distress for the whole family,  travel costs, extra phone charges, 
campsite costs and their car, which they said had been worth  £2,500,  becoming  
valueless.
Ref: DRN15829532Acromas said their policy didnt cover them for the provision of a mobile mechanic such  as 
Mr N had suggested, and Acromas wasnt responsible for delays by their repairing garage,  
or damage  caused  by its recovery agent. But it agreed it should have passed on information  
as soon as it received  it, and it was unacceptable  that the first recovery  truck didnt have 
enough seats for all the passengers.
Acromas paid Mr N £75 as compensation for these  matters. But it didnt accept that he was 
entitled to any further reimbursement or compensation. So Mr N complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He thought  it 
was likely, from the photos hed seen, that Acromass agents  had caused  the damage  to the 
gearbox, probably during  the process of transporting the car home. So he said Acromas  
should reimburse the cost of the replacement gearbox, with interest from the date of 
payment. He also thought, in summary, that:
Acromas had provided a reasonable emergency service in line with its terms and 
conditions by uplifting the car to a garage;
the campsite costs  Mr N had incurred  were in line with those they were  likely to have 
budgeted for in the course of their holiday so he didnt suggest Acromas should  
refund these;
under  the policy terms Mr N was responsible for the £183.68 part of their return travel  
costs so he didnt  think Acromas  needed to refund this; and
overall, to compensate Mr N for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him, 
Acromas should  pay Mr N a further £200 in addition to the cost of replacing the 
gearbox.
Mrs N responded to say, in summary, that:
their car was a classic car and its value lay in its being properly serviced and having 
original parts. Because of the damage to the gearbox this was no longer the case.  So 
its value, which they put at its purchase  cost of £2,520 in 2017, had become 
worthless; and
the £200 compensation suggested by the investigator was insufficient  for the distress 
and inconvenience  Acromas had caused  them, and the time they had to spend 
communicating with Acromas,  and raising this complaint.
 Acromas said,  in summary, that:
in relation to the initial uplift of the car, Acromas  was reliant  on its third party suppliers 
on the spot. A recovery truck would normally have space for 5 passengers,  which 
would have been adequate in this case.  It was unfortunate that the recovery vehicle 
was unsuitable,  but Mr N didnt contact it at the time to make it aware of this.
the terms of the policy were  that it would only pay the costs of recovery  of a vehicle 
to the UK up to the value of the car involved.  In this case Acromas considered the 
value of Mr Ns car was £1,500, and the cost of recovery to Acromas  was £1,900. 
Acromas had not sought to recover the difference of £400 from Mr N. So this was in 
effect additional compensation over and above the £75 it had paid Mr N;
Mr N considered the damage to his gearbox was caused by the recovery  company  
while the car was being recovered  to the UK. However the policy terms made  it clear  
that Acromas didnt accept responsibility for the actions of third party  suppliers;
Ref: DRN15829533moreover, Acromas produced a condition report for the car from the company that 
recovered the car to the UK, signed  and stamped  at the time of uplift, showing that 
the gearlever and surround were already damaged when it collected the car; and
it thought any aspect where  Acromas could have done more had been  sufficiently 
acknowledged by the compensation already provided of, effectively, £475.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs N and Acromas disagree  with the investigators recommendation for the 
reasons Ive summarised above. However I think, broadly, that what he proposed  was a fair 
resolution of this complaint.
Dealing first with the damage to the gearbox,  it isnt clear when this happened. I accept the 
evidence Acromas has provided that the gearbox was already damaged  when the recovery 
agent arrived at the garage abroad  where it had been left to uplift  it and bring it back to the 
UK. However I dont  think it was damaged  when Mr N left it there and returned to the UK. If it 
had been, I think  Mr N would have noticed,  and mentioned, this.
I think its most likely  that the damage  was caused by the garage,  probably because it was 
stuck in Park and they wanted to move it. This wasnt something that could have happened 
accidentally because of the force required to bend the selector lever.
Acromass policy  terms do say it doesnt accept responsibility for the acts or omissions  of 
third party service providers. However where,  as in this case,  the provider is selected by 
Acromas and the consumer has no choice in the matter, we dont consider  this is a fair term 
in all circumstances.
I consider that the garage in this case has caused further damage to Mr Ns car by its 
deliberate act in circumstances where there doesnt seem to have  been  any overriding need  
to do so. I dont think its reasonable for Acromas  to try to exclude liability in such 
circumstances.
Mrs N has supplied an invoice for £97.20  for the initial check  of the gearbox which 
established the damage, and an invoice for £267.50 for the supply and fitting of the 
replacement used gearbox. Copies  of these have been passed on to Acromas. I think its fair 
and reasonable that Acromas should reimburse these invoices, with interest from the dates 
they were paid by Mr N until settlement.
Ive considered Mr Ns claim that fitting this replacement gearbox means that his car, which 
he says was formerly a Classic Car worth  £2,520,  is now unreliable and of no value 
whatsoever. However I havent seen any expert evidence of this beyond Mr Ns assertion. 
So I dont  think it would  reasonable for me to require Acromas  to compensate him for this 
suggested loss of value.
I agree  with the conclusions the investigator  came to in relation to the other matters Mr N 
complained of for the reasons the investigator explained. I will just mention, in particular, the 
following issues:
Ref: DRN15829534I agree  the recovery truck that came to carry out the first uplift  was inappropriate, and 
Mr N and his children  shouldnt have been  expected to travel  in it. However Mr N 
didnt make Acromas aware  of the issue at the time, or arrange  a taxi himself  and 
recover the cost from Acromas. So I cant say Acromas should do anything more at 
this point;
Mr N has said from the outset that Acromas should have  arranged  to call out a 
locksmith to the car, as he would have done  in the UK, which  would have got him 
moving quickly and avoided all the subsequent problems. Acromas  says this isnt a 
service thats available in this part of Europe,  unlike  in the UK. I havent seen any 
evidence to contradict  this. So I think  Acromas  acted  reasonably in arranging  to uplift  
the car and take it to a garage  for repair;
after it became clear that the car couldnt be repaired  in time for Mr N to drive it back 
to the UK, Acromas considered a number of alternative options. In conjunction  with 
Mr N it concluded that arranging for Mr N and family to travel back by train and air, 
and then recovering the car to the UK at a later date, was the best option. It decided, 
in the circumstances, that it wouldnt  seek to recover the £400 excess recovery  cost.  
I think that was a reasonable decision. But I think its separate  from the 
compensation I mention below; 
the investigator thought that, in addition to reimbursing the gearbox costs,  Acromas 
should pay Mr N compensation of £200 in addition to the £75 it had already paid him, 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused  him during the claim. I have noted what  
both Mrs N and Acromas have  said about  this figure.  However I conclude  that its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances;
we dont normally award compensation for the time and effort involved in bringing  a 
complaint to this service.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to:
1.reimburse Mr N for the invoice  of £97.20 for the initial check  of the gearbox, and the 
invoice of £267.50 for the supply and fitting  of the replacement used gearbox;
2.pay Mr N interest  at the annual rate of 8% simple on the amounts in 1. above from 
the respective  dates  of payment by Mr N until settlement (1); and
3.pay Mr N compensation of £200,  in addition to the £75 it has already paid him, for the 
distress and inconvenience its handling  of his claim caused him
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15829535If Acromas  considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1582953