K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, charges him interest for 
exceeding the limit on his credit card during a promotional period. He believes he was mis-
sold the card. 
background
In March 2017 Mr M saw a credit card offer advertised through  his online banking  for 0% 
interest on balance  transfers  over 30 months. Mr M applied and was accepted. In August 
2018 Mr R realised he had been  paying  interest  on his balance  since  July 2017 and 
complained to Halifax. He also complained he had been given wrong  information  concerning  
how Halifax had contacted him. 
Halifax did not agree it had made  an error. It said interest had been charged  since August 
2017 because  Mr R had exceeded his credit  limit in July. It said Mr R had been  charged £12 
for going over the limit and the promotional interest free offer had been removed as a result. 
It apologised  that Mr R hadnt received the text message to advise him he had gone over his 
limit and offered  £70 in compensation. 
Mr R was not satisfied  so brought his complaint to this service. He said he hadnt  been given 
any information when  he received the card. He said he had gone back to Halifax to make 
sure he knew  how to use it. He said he hadnt  been  told it was possible to go over the credit 
limit. Mr R said when  he enquired about the interest  he was told he owed  £500.  He said he 
asked to have  that in writing but has received nothing. He also said he was told he could see 
all statements online but in reality  he could only go back three  months. He wanted  a refund 
of all the interest hed paid. 
Our investigator was unable to conclude that Halifax had acted unfairly or outside the 
information outlined  in the terms and conditions. She said it was possible for banks to allow 
customers to exceed  the credit limit provided  the balance was brought back  down. Mr R 
remained unhappy with Halifax  and asked for a final decision. He said he hadnt  received the 
terms and conditions or any communication about  the card and continued  to be unable  to 
see past three months worth of statements.  He also gave other examples of where he 
believed Halifax had made errors. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr R but having done  so I wont  be asking Halifax to do anything further. 
I would like to thank  Mr R for all the information and comments hes sent. And Id like to 
reassure him that if I dont  comment on any specific point  hes made its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think  I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. I can see that Mr R is frustrated with 
whats happened. This is understandable, as he now has to pay interest on the balance of 
his credit card. 
Mr R applied for the credit card online. According to his card statement he exceeded his 
credit limit on 29 June with a transaction of £2,500  bringing his account total to £3,493.53. 
Mr Rs credit limit was £3,400. On 30 June Mr R made a payment of £250 bringing the 
Ref: DRN12377532account back within the limit. An overlimit charge of £12 was applied  on this statement. So 
Im satisfied Mr R did exceed his credit limit for a 24 hour period. 
Halifax has said Mr R could only apply for the card after ticking that he had read and 
understood the terms and conditions on the application. I havent seen a copy of the actual 
application Mr R completed  but I have seen  an example of one. I can see questions asking 
for personal  details and information relevant to the specific card the customer is applying for. 
Section three of the application is titled important information about our credit cards. Here  it 
asks customers to confirm they have  read the information below. In costs of the credit  it 
says:
The table below shows you the rates and fees that will apply to some transactions 
during any introductory  promotional  period. You will lose any promotional offers if 
your minimum payment is late or you go over your credit limit.
Further down the page it continues:
You will incur  a £12 default charge if your minimum payment is late, you exceed 
your credit limit during the statement period or a payment is returned unpaid.
The next section  is requires customers to agree to the terms and conditions. It says:
to complete your application  online,  please tick the signature part of the agreement 
within the box below.  Your tick will confirm youve  read and agreed to the Credit Card  
Agreement including the Additional Important terms and that you want  to enter into 
the credit  agreement with us.
Repeated in the box below it says:
please tick the box to indicate your signature  of this credit  agreement.  By signing 
above you confirm  that you have read and agreed to your credit card agreement  and 
the additional important terms. 
Im satisfied that in order for Mr R to have applied online he wouldve had to have signed the 
document by ticking the appropriate boxes concerning  the terms and conditions. By doing 
this he would have  agreed to be bound  by them which he confirmed he had read. Im also 
satisfied that these terms and conditions indicated  what would happen  should  Mr R exceed  
his credit limit. 
Mr R said he hasnt received any information  from Halifax concerning the card and did not 
receive any terms and conditions with the card. As Mr R applied online I would expect Mr R 
to have accessed the terms online  and if they werent provided at the time of application I 
wouldve expected  Mr R to query  this with Halifax and to not sign that he had read them. 
I asked Halifax what Mr Rs communication preferences were.  It said it could only provide 
the last 12 months  record and Mr R had been  receiving paper statements  during  that time. 
But it said Mr R regularly uses his internet banking. It said it believed  Mr Rs initial  
preference was for online statements because it had previously been sending  him text 
messages every month  to say that his statement was ready to view online. It said these 
messages stopped in March 2018  which  would  tie in with him switching to paper statements 
around that time. It said Mr R wouldve  had to have changed his preferences himself. Ive 
Ref: DRN12377533seen a copy of Mr Rs statements from May 2017.  So I can also confirm the address on the 
statements corresponds to the address Mr R provided to this service.
I can see a number of text messages were sent to Mr R. And in September  and October  
2017 the notes say these  messages  were sent to alert Mr R that his statement was ready 
were both marked as delivered. So Im satisfied  that for these two months at least  Mr R 
was made  aware  his statements  were ready  to view online. 
Mr R has said that he only has access to three months worth  of statements online. Im not 
disputing this is the case. Halifax has said as Mr R is set up for paper statements he would  
only be able to see three months worth of statements online. 
Mr R has said this situation  has caused him and his wife a great deal of worry and stress. 
Hes also concerned hes been accused  of lying. Im very sorry to hear this situation has 
been worrisome and I want to reassure Mr R that although the account of events conflicts I 
do not assume that one side or the other is lying. Where  evidence is missing or disputed  I 
must make a decision  based on the balance of probability, that is, what I believe most likely 
to have happened. Im not disputing  Mr R when he said he hasnt received information but 
Im satisfied that the statements  were first available online and that more  recently they were  
sent. And I cant hold Halifax  responsible for Mr R not receiving them. 
I can see that information relating to the promotional offer and the consequences of Mr R 
going over his credit limit was on the statements. On page two of the statements it says 
under useful information: 
You will lose any promotional  offers if your minimum  payment is late or you go over 
your credit limit. The standard rate will apply  on the remaining balance.
And on page three it says: 
Please remember that to keep your introductory offers, you need to make at least 
the minimum payment  on time each month and stay within your credit  limit.
Mr R has said Halifax has said the charge was £12 but hes being charged much more  than 
that every  month. As per the terms and conditions there is a one off charge of £12 for 
exceeding his limit. As he has done  so during the promotional period he is now incurring 
interest on his balance every month. 
Mr R isnt happy that Halifax has allowed him to exceed his credit  limit and has also given a 
few examples of other errors he believes  Halifax has made. Im sorry to hear that. Its my 
role to look at the individual circumstances  of this complaint  so Im afraid  I cannot  comment  
on any other issues Mr R may have with Halifax. Its up to the individual bank to determine 
whether or not they allow customers to exceed  credit limits. Although  doing so can incur  a 
charge it can be useful for customers to be able to, provided they bring  the balance  back 
down. So I cant say that Halifax has done  anything wrong in allowing Mr R to exceed his. It 
is his responsibility  to manage his account. 
Halifax apologised that Mr R hadnt received the text message to advise him he had gone 
over his limit and offered £70 in compensation. I believe  this is fair and reasonable. Even if 
Mr R had received the text message,  it wouldnt have changed  the outcome as he had 
broken the terms  of the promotional offer. Its not clear to me if Mr R accepted or received 
Ref: DRN12377534the £70. If he hasnt and wishes to accept  it he should contact Halifax  directly to establish if 
this offer is still valid. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1237753