K821x#15Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service provided by Santander UK Plc (Santander) when he made
an international transfer.
Background
On 7 March 2019 Mr H transferred funds abroad from his joint account to pay an invoice for 
his son, who runs a business. The invoice needed to be paid by 10 March  2019 but didnt 
reach the payee by this date. When Mr H chased  Santander, he was told the funds had left 
his account and to wait five days before they could put a trace on the payment. Mr H was 
then told the payment was in a holding bank waiting to be processed.  
Mr H was unhappy and complained to Santander.  In their final response letter  Santander 
said their payment trace team confirmed the payment was undergoing additional security 
checks, which were a regulatory requirement.  Santander said the payment  was made on 29 
March 2019 and although it hadnt  reached the payee there  was nothing more  they could do. 
Although Santander said they hadnt done anything wrong, they recognised Mr H had made 
a lot of calls to find out what  was happening and paid him £60 compensation.
Mr H was unhappy with Santanders response and brought  his complaint to this service. The 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt uphold it. He said Santanders terms and 
conditions say they are not responsible if theres a delay or an international payment doesnt 
reach the beneficiary account if this is because  of statutory or legal checks. The investigator  
said hed seen evidence  the payment was made and received  by the receiving bank,  so 
could not say Santander were at fault.
Mr H raised a further complaint point after the investigators opinion. He was unhappy
Santander told him the payment was with a holding bank in around mid-March, when this 
wasnt the case and the payment was with Santander until 29 March 2019.  Given this, Mr H 
questioned why Santander  told him he couldnt cancel the payment  and have his funds 
returned. The investigator accepted Mr H was given incorrect information when he was told 
the payment was in a holding account.  But he said payment records showed funds leaving 
Mr Hs account and staff checking  wouldnt have known the funds were still with Santander.  
Mr H thinks staff dealing with the complaint should  have had the correct information.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 February  2020. In my provisional decision I said:
I appreciate  Mr H has had to make  numerous  calls and has visited his branch of Santander 
on a number of occasions causing  inconvenience and frustration. Its also clear  the 
international payment Mr H made  didnt reach the payee as expected. What I need  to decide 
is whether Santander  are responsible for the delay and whether  theyve  provided  a 
reasonable standard of service. This includes carrying out checks  in a reasonable 
timeframe.
The terms and conditions  for Mr Hs account say:
3.2 International Payment delays or failures
a) We shall not be liable  for any loss you may incur or suffer as a result  of any delay or 
failure in an International Payment reaching  the bank (or other financial institution) account 
Ref: DRN13759802of the beneficiary  of the payment, where that delay or failure is a result of (or arises in 
connection with):
(i) you giving us Payment  Details (see Condition 1 in Section 2A) which  are inconsistent or 
incomplete;
(ii) any failure  or delay on the part of the bank  (or other financial institution)  to credit the 
beneficiarys account;
(iii) any statutory or other legally required checks being carried  out in relation to the 
International Payment;  or
(iv) any event or circumstance beyond our reasonable control.
Im satisfied that between  7 and 29 March 2019 Santander were carrying out checks  which 
resulted in a delay in making the international payment. I consider Santander  were  entitled to 
make these checks, and they were completed in a reasonable timescale. I cant hold 
Santander responsible for the resulting delay in making payment. Whilst Santander made 
the payment on 29 March,  I understand the beneficiary didnt receive it then, and indeed  
hadnt received  it by 8 July 2019,  but I cant hold Santander responsible.  This is because  the 
terms and conditions for Mr Hs account  say Santander  are not liable  for loss when the delay 
in the international payment reaching  the beneficiary  is as a result of any delay or failure on 
the part of the bank  to credit the beneficiarys account.
Mr H was told by complaint handlers at Santander  the payment was being held in a holding  
account, which wasnt the case. I agree this wasnt helpful. The real issue though concerns 
the advice given to Mr H that he couldnt cancel the international payment because it had 
already been made. Ive listened  to calls between Mr H and Santander. Mr H asked  
Santander from mid-March if the international payment could be cancelled  or recalled so he 
could look at a different  way of getting the money  abroad. Other means  included  transferring 
the money to his sons account then doing an international  transfer  and even Mr Hs son 
getting on a plane and hand-delivering it. Mr H and his son made the urgency  of the situation 
and the consequences of late payment clear  to Santander.
From mid-March Mr H was consistently told by front-line Santander staff the payment had 
been made and could  not be recalled, when in fact Santander made the payment on 29
March 2019. I appreciate  Santander have explained  that front-line staff wouldnt be aware of 
the position but believe they could have passed  on Mr Hs request to return  the money. 
I need to consider the impact on Mr H of Santander telling him the payment had been made. 
Its important to note I can only consider Mr Hs inconvenience and stress, and not that of his 
son  who isnt the account holder. Im also mindful of the fact theres no guarantee that if 
the international payment  was made  from a different  bank the same legal and regulatory 
checks wouldnt have taken just as long, or longer. And Mr H would  have to start the 
payment process  again. Santander have  already  paid Mr H £60 compensation to reflect  the 
number of calls he made.  Taking  everything  in to account I think  Santander should pay Mr H 
an additional  £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience they caused  him by providing  
incorrect advice about cancelling the payment.
I appreciate it must have  been difficult for Mr H when he didnt know where his money was 
from the end of March  2019, but I cant hold Santander  responsible  for this.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision and Santander said they had no further  comments to 
make. 
Ref: DRN13759803My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional conclusions, which have been accepted by Mr H and Santander.  I have 
reached the same decision  as I did in my provisional  decision (set out above) and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay Mr H £100 compensation in addition  
to the £60 theyve already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1375980