K821x#15complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1995. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this 
sale. So in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller. Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her the 
PPI.
background
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld.  He said that Mrs S was self-employed and 
the policy terms made it more difficult for her to claim on the policy  than if shed been employed.  
Since the adjudicator felt FICL didnt make those  terms  clear to Mrs S at the time of the sale,  and 
they would  have made a difference to Mrs S decision to take the PPI, the adjudicator essentially 
asked FICL  to compensate her for the premiums  shed  paid, plus interest.
FICL didnt  formally agree or disagree  with the adjudicator,  so the case  was passed  to me to 
review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S case.
Having done so, I consider that the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I can see that the policy terms made it more difficult for those in self-employment to claim than for 
those in employment. And Ive seen no evidence to show FICL brought  the relevant policy  terms to 
Mrs S attention at the time of the sale as it should have.
I think FICLs failings significantly affected Mrs S decision  to take the PPI because, as far as I can 
tell, she was self-employed  when she did so. I say that because, in her submissions to us, shes 
confirmed she was self-employed and that she was an office worker with her own business.  Ive no 
reason to doubt what shes  said.
Taking everything into account,  I find that Mrs S has lost out because  of how FICL sold her 
the PPI. That being  the case, I believe it should  put things right for her as explained below.
putting things right  
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. If 
the store card accounts  closed:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN12970942FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs S would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs S would  
have owed FICL  something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the store card accounts still open the policy should be cancelled  if hasnt  already  and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs S would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owes  and what  she would 
have owed.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S would  
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs S what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding this complaint. I require Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
to put things right for Mrs S as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Ref: DRN12970943Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1297094