K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the amount of compensation hes received  for the delay that Barclays  
Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  caused when transferring his pension to a self-invested personal  
pension (SIPP) with another provider. He says the compensation Barclays has offered him 
doesnt cover his full financial  loss.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 17 July 2019. A copy of it is attached and it 
forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision and as such I wont reiterate it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning on upholding the complaint and 
asked Barclays to compare the current value of Mr Cs SIPP  against  the value it would be 
now had it been  invested earlier, and to pay any loss accordingly. I also said it should  pay 
some additional  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused. I asked Mr C and 
Barclays to let me know if there was anything else they wanted me to consider.
Barclays didnt have  anything further  to add but it did ask us to provide some information  
from Mr C regarding the individual investments  he held. It said it wasnt  able to accept my 
provisional decision without running  the loss calculation and confirming the total cost to the 
business. 
Mr C said he accepted  my findings  and the provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr C nor Barclays  sent me anything further to consider, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings.  Barclays  has said that it wants to complete the loss 
calculation before it decides whether or not to accept the provisional decision. But my 
provisional decision didnt  require Barclays to do the calculation  at that point, it simply asked  
for any further submissions to be made  in respect of the merits of my decision. I dont 
believe it would be fair on Mr C to wait for Barclays to make up its mind  on whether to accept 
the provisional decision depending on the level of financial loss suffered. 
So in the absence of any further  submissions regarding Mr Cs complaint since  my 
provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint, for the same reasons given in 
my provisional decision.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if his transfer hadnt been delayed. 
I think Mr C would have invested into his new SIPP earlier had he been allowed that 
opportunity and Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
 
Ref: DRN12700082what should  Barclays do?
 
To compensate Mr C fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the current value of Mr Cs SIPP with the notional value of the SIPP if it had been 
invested on 18 September  2017. If the notional value is greater than the actual  value, there 
is a loss and compensation  is payable. If the actual value  is greater  than the notional value, 
no compensation is payable.
 
If there is a loss, Barclays should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Barclays is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Barclays  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Barclays  should  give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
In addition I think Barclays should pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr C has suffered over this matter and for the impact  on his retirement  
planning.
Barclays has yet to confirm whether Mr C has cashed the cheque  it sent him so it should 
only subtract if from the loss arising from the calculation if it can confirm it was cashed.  But it 
still shouldnt take into account the £250 it already owed Mr C from a previous (resolved) 
complaint.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay redress  as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN12700083ombudsman
Ref: DRN12700084copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains about the amount of compensation hes received for the delay that Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC (Barclays) caused  when transferring his pension  to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) with 
another provider. He says the compensation Barclays has offered him doesnt cover his full financial 
loss.
background
Mr C wanted to transfer his pension with Barclays, valued around £297,000, to a new provider. He 
said that he initially requested the transfer in May 2017, but wasnt told until August 2017 that his 
entire pension portfolio  needed to be sold in order to transfer. The holdings in his Barclays pension 
were sold around  31 August 2017 and subsequently the monies were  transferred to the administrator  
of his SIPP  on 28 September 2017  and then onto his new SIPP provider  by 9 October  2017.  
Mr C complained regarding the level of service  he had received. He said Barclays should  have 
actioned his request sooner  and  as a result, his money had been held in cash  from 31 August  2017 
and he said hed lost out on investment growth. 
Barclays upheld Mr Cs complaint. It agreed it should have transferred his money  sooner   and 
offered to pay him 8% interest on the £297,000 for the 28 days that the money remained in cash  - 
which amounted to £1811. It also agreed to pay a further £130 as compensatory  interest from 
September 2017 onwards.   In addition, Barclays agreed to pay Mr C £200 compensation it hadnt paid 
him for a previous  complaint,  plus a further £150  for the distress  and inconvenience caused by not 
receiving that compensation and the delay over his pension transfer. 
But Mr C didnt agree  with Barclays. He felt he had lost out on investment growth which  would have 
resulted in more compensation than Barclays offered. He said that Barclays transferred his pension to 
the administrator  of his SIPP, which was not his choice  as he wanted to transfer the monies  directly to 
his new provider. Once the money reached the administrator it was then transferred to his new SIPP 
provider by 9 October 2017 when Mr C was able to access his monies.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the matter  and recommended it should  be upheld.  He noted that 
Barclays had upheld Mr Cs complaint because of the delays it caused  but he thought Barclays 
should carry out a calculation  in order to determine what Mr Cs pension would have been worth had it 
been invested  until 28 September 2017.   He said it should then pay Mr C accordingly.  The adjudicator 
added that if this amount  was less than the offer Barclays had made  then Mr C should be paid the 
original offer.
Barclays didnt agree  and sent a copy of a call recording from 25 August 2017  in which
Mr C confirmed  he wanted to cash his investments in and had the process explained to him. 
Barclays also provided  a copy of the signed discharge form which Mr C signed on 
31 August 2017. 
Given that Barclays says it has a service level agreement to transfer cash  to another SIPP provider  in 
1-2 weeks, and the transfer in Mr Cs case took 4 weeks, the adjudicator informed Mr C that the offer 
Barclays made was fair and reasonable as they paid Mr C 8% interest over the entire  4 week period 
plus compensatory interest.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the funds were not received  into the SIPP of his choice until 
9 October 2017. The adjudicator explained that as the funds were  sent from Barclays to its SIPP 
administrator on 28 September 2017  that was the end of Barclays involvement. So he didnt  think 
Barclays should pay compensation for that time as well. 
Ref: DRN12700085In June 2018  Barclays confirmed that it had transferred a further  £64.26 to Mr Cs SIPP which it said 
represented a full discharge of liability  within its SIPP.  
As no resolution could be found the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I find Im largely in agreement  with the adjudicator 
but have decided upon a different redress calculation.
Theres no dispute that Barclays delayed  the transfer of Mr Cs pension to a new provider.  Barclays 
has accepted this and sent Mr C a cheque for compensation which reflected a 28 day delay  along  
with some compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.  Barclays paid 
compensation on the basis  that Mr C wanted the money to be held in cash when  the portfolio  within 
the pension was sold  before it was then transferred. Whereas Mr C says he was going  to invest  his 
pension into a higher  risk portfolio and therefore has lost out on investment  growth  that he would have 
got  from his new plan  if the transfer had taken place earlier. 
Mr C says he first approached Barclays to transfer his pension in May 2017.  He says it was only in 
August 2017  that Barclays told him he needed to sell his portfolio  to be able to transfer the pension in 
cash. But theres  no evidence to show that Mr C spoke with Barclays in May 2017  or any evidence 
that he chased  up his request despite not hearing anything further  for three months. So I cant safely  
say Barclays should have begun the transfer process earlier than it did.  Barclays has provided 
evidence that it spoke to Mr C in July 2017  and started the process of transferring  his pension 
thereafter. 
Ive seen the instruction Barclays received on 22 August 2017 from Mr C to transfer his pension. Ive 
also seen that Mr C completed the relevant discharge  forms to proceed with the transfer  as a cash 
transfer after selling the portfolio  on 25 August 2017, and that these sales were completed soon 
after. I know Barclays has provided  Mr C with some conflicting dates regarding the selling of his 
holdings but Im satisfied,  from the contract notes Ive seen, that the sales were completed between 
30 August and 4 September 2017.
So Ive carefully considered what I think should have happened in an effort to identify if Barclays has 
made any errors  and if it has  to ask it to put Mr C as close to the position  he would  have been in 
now had the error not occurred.
Ive taken 4 September  2017 as the date that Barclays should have begun the process of transferring. 
I think  the signed  discharge  form  that Barclays received on this date  should  have been the starting 
point. Thereafter Barclays has told us that it has a service standard of such  cash  transfers being 
completed within 1-2 weeks. And Ive seen  that Barclays did initially attempt the transfer on 
12 September 2017, and this was only halted because of a problem with its internal processes. 
So I think theres reason  to consider  that if its systems didnt  prevent it  the transfer could have 
taken place two weeks after the discharge  forms were received  which  fits in reasonably with 
Barclays own service standards. 
Ive been provided with a statement from the new SIPP provider to show that the transferred funds  
were invested   in line with a previous recommendation  the day after the money  was received  
(10-11 October 2017.)  So Im satisfied that Mr G intended  to invest immediately after the transfer and 
already had a strategy of how he wanted to invest. So I think any delay  that Barclays did cause would 
have prevented him from investing  in the way he wanted  as quickly as possible.  
But there was another layer to the transfer process in this case. Although  Mr C held his SIPP with 
Barclays it was actually administered by another provider on Barclays behalf.  So when Barclays was 
ready to transfer Mr Cs cash it had to be transferred to the other provider for it to then transfer 
Ref: DRN12700086proceeds to Mr Cs new SIPP provider. Barclays did make  this arrangement clear  in its terms and 
conditions when it explained  that its SIPP was administered by a third party. 
And because  it was Barclays  decision  to use this third party I think it should  be responsible for any 
additional time taken to transfer the money .I think it would be unreasonable for me to exclude  this 
additional time taken in the overall redress as this was Barclays responsibility  because it decided to 
use an additional party in its SIPP arrangements. I dont think  it would be fair for Mr C to suffer any 
financial loss from further delays because of Barclays decision.
 
So, in this case that means  I think Barclays ought to calculate what Mr Cs position would be now, if 
hed been able to invest into the new SIPP from 18 September 2017.
I know Barclays has said that Mr C was aware  that his funds were being held in cash and he had 
requested the assets were encashed. But I think Mr C always intended for the cash to be invested 
into his SIPP at the earliest possible opportunity and didnt request  that his assets remained in cash  
for an extended period  of time.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would probably now be in 
if his transfer hadnt been delayed. 
I think  Mr C would have invested into his new SIPP earlier had he been allowed  that opportunity and 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
 
what should Barclays do?
 
To compensate Mr C fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the current value of Mr Cs SIPP with the notional value of the SIPP  if it had been invested 
on 18 September 2017.  If the notional value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value  is greater than the notional value , no compensation  is 
payable.
 
If there  is a loss, Barclays should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase  its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Barclays is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that amount  
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr C's actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr C would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Barclays deducts  income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Barclays should give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN12700087In addition I think Barclays  should  pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  Mr C 
has suffered  over this matter  and for the impact on his retirement planning.
I note Barclays says it has already sent Mr C a cheque for what it considered to be adequate redress. 
But Im unsure if this cheque  has been cashed. If Barclays  can confirm the cheque has been cashed 
then it should subtract that value from the calculation  set out above. However, it should  not take into 
account the £250 it already  owed Mr C from a previous (resolved) complaint.
If Barclays cannot confirm the cheque was cashed it should pay the compensation as set out above 
and it should treat the compensation from the previous complaint as a separate matter with Mr C. 
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr Cs complaint against  Barclays  Bank UK PLC.  
My provisional  decision  is that Barclays should pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
..
Ref: DRN1270008