K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that the car she hired  through a hire agreement with Raedex  Consortium 
Limited (trading as Wheels4Sure) was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss D entered  into a hire agreement with Wheels4Sure in November 2016. Around 14 
months later she says she started to have issues with the car which meant  she felt unsafe  
driving it. She says that Wheels4Sure offered to terminate the hire agreement  and waive  the 
50% fee on the outstanding payment. However,  following this offer Wheels4Sure  issued its 
final response letter saying that Miss D had breached the terms and conditions of the 
agreement and that her actions meant  the agreement had defaulted and she was liable  for 
the 50% outstanding lease payment.
Miss D says she should have been able to exit the agreement and have the 50% termination 
fee waived.
Wheels4 Sure says that when Miss D raised her issues about the car it tried to work with her 
to find an alternative car. When  this wasnt accepted  it offered to terminate the agreement.  It 
says that Miss D responded to this offer saying that she hadnt  asked  for the agreement  to 
be terminated and she would need  to find another car first. It says the car should have been 
taken to the garage on 9 June 2018 but this didnt  happen until 18 June and that Miss D had 
told the garage she was rejecting the car but that she hadnt  explained  this to it. Because  of 
this and because  Miss D had no insurance in August 2017, it says she was in breach  of her 
contract and so she was liable  for the 50% outstanding lease  payment.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that given the car was new when Miss D 
entered into the hire agreement she wouldnt have expected the issues  experienced to have 
arisen when they did. She said the issues werent due to driving style or wear and tear and 
so she was persuaded the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply.
Our adjudicator didnt  think it reasonable that Wheels4Sure were  enforcing action for a 
breach regarding Miss Ds insurance  cover as Miss D had shown she had insurance in place 
and no action was taken at the time the issue arose.  She also didnt think  that Miss D had 
acted unreasonably in regard to the return of the car. 
Wheels4Sure didnt  accept our adjudicators view and so the case  has been  passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D entered  into a hire agreement for a new car. It is reasonable that she would expect it 
to be free from faults, including  minor defaults and be sufficiently durable.  Unfortunately 
Miss D experienced  issues  with the car just over a year into her agreement.  The car was 
taken for repairs in March  2018 when the rotary switch was replaced.  At this time Miss D had 
driven the car around  9,000 miles.  Unfortunately this didnt resolve the issues  and Miss D 
says that a week after the car was returned she was experiencing the same problems. The 
car was taken into the garage for repairs in May 2018 and the suspension springs were 
Ref: DRN18261212replaced and a software update took place to resolve an issue  with the phone connection. 
However following  this Miss D experienced a loss of power. 
The car was new when the lease  started and given the type of issues  experienced I think, on 
balance, it is reasonable to say the car wasnt sufficiently durable.  As the issues  affected the 
performance of the car I understand why Miss D didnt  feel safe driving it. Given this I find 
the fair resolution  was for the car to be returned and the lease agreement  ended.
In June 2018, Wheels4Sure tried to identify alternative cars for Miss D but when these  
werent accepted  it offered to terminate  her agreement and waive the 50% termination  fee. It 
also said that it would refund  her June 2018 rental  payment and asked Miss D to collect  her 
items so it could collect the car from the garage. I find this a reasonable offer.
I note the comments made  by Wheels4Sure that Miss D responded to this offer saying she 
hadnt asked for the agreement to be terminated  and would need  to find another  car. 
However I do not find it unreasonable that Miss D needed time to consider her options  and 
given she was in discussions with Wheels4Sure up to the 8 June I think when the offer of 
termination was made  this shouldnt have been  tied to an acceptance  on that day but Miss D 
should have been given  reasonable  time to ensure this was the action she wished to take.
Miss D did return  the car to the garage as had been  discussed. I understand this wasnt  on 
the 9 June however I havent  seen  anything so say that this was the date the return  was 
required or the offer would be rescinded. Miss D returned the car on 18 June and sent 
notification of this. This was within a reasonable time of the termination offer and so I think  it 
reasonable that the offer should  have  been  acted on.
Wheels4Sure has mentioned a previous breach in the terms of the agreement  regarding 
Miss Ds insurance cover. I have looked into this issue and can see that Miss D was 
contacted in August 2017 as she didnt have insurance in place.  She was unaware of this 
and has provided  evidence that she had cover in place from November 2016 to November 
2017. She acted  on this information and discovered a mistake  had been made and her 
insurance cancelled.  As soon as she was aware  she put new insurance  in place. I think it 
was right that Wheels4Sure didnt act on this breach at that time as Miss D wasnt at fault. 
Therefore I dont find it reasonable that this is then used as a reason to terminate her 
agreement at a later date.
Overall, I think Wheels4Sure acted reasonably in response to the issues Miss D had with the 
car by trying  to find an alternative vehicle. When this was unsuccessful I find it reasonable 
that the offer of termination with the waiving  of the 50% termination  fee was provided. And I 
think this should  have remained in place for a reasonable time. As Miss D returned the car a 
few days later I find that her agreement  should  have been  terminated and the fee waived 
and her June payment  refunded as had been  previously discussed.
Miss D has been caused distress and inconvenience because  of the issues  she has 
experienced with the car meaning she has felt unsafe driving it. She has also had to spend 
time taking  the car to the garage  and dealing with the issues  following the withdrawal of 
Wheels4Sures offer. Because of this I agree with our adjudicator that Wheels4sue  should 
pay Miss D £200 compensation. 
Ref: DRN18261213my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Raedex Consortium Limited (trading as 
Wheels4Sure) should:
terminate the contract waiving the 50% termination fee;
refund  the June  2018 lease payment as agreed  on the email on 8 June 2018 plus  
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  that may have  been recorded  on Miss Ds credit file 
regarding this agreement; and 
pay Miss D £200 for distress and inconvenience  caused.
*If Raedex  Consortium  Limited (trading as Wheels4Sure) considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss D how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1826121