K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Insurance  Factory Ltd recorded the wrong  information  about him when 
he bought a motor insurance policy through it. 
background
After Mr Cs car was stolen, his insurer queried  the claim,  on the basis  that his car was 
parked on the road at the time of the theft. The insurer understood that Mr C kept his car in a 
locked building. Mr C said hed never said that, as he generally kept the car in his back 
garden behind  locked gates, but sometimes parked  it on the road. He said Insurance Factory 
(acting as an intermediary) had recorded  the wrong information.
The original  call from when a policy was first set up in 2010 through Insurance Factory 
wasnt available. But when Mr C renewed his policy in 2017, the documents sent to him 
afterwards said the car was kept in a locked building.  Mr C didnt call Insurance Factory to 
correct the error. And when he changed his vehicle in April 2018, the advisor asked Mr C to 
confirm that the car was kept in a locked building.  Mr C said yes. He added that it was in the 
back garden, behind a gate. The insurer covered  the claim  despite  having the wrong  details.
Mr C called Insurance Factory again  in October  2018 as hed been told by it that the policy  
would lapse shortly. That was because  as his car had been  stolen, there  was nothing to 
insure. Mr C told the advisor  the car had been  recovered. She said shed let the renewals 
team know,  so they could do a claims check and then issue  a renewal invitation. But on 
12 October 2018 Insurance Factory told Mr C by email that it couldnt offer a renewal quote. 
It said the current policy would lapse on 26 October 2018. Mr C says he didnt  get the email.
Mr C was involved in an accident in November 2018. His car was seized by the police and 
he was charged with driving without insurance.  He said Insurance  Factory hadnt told him 
the policy wasnt being renewed.  He said hed lost his no claims bonus  (NCD) and that his 
premiums had risen. He thought it was all Insurance Factorys fault. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Cs complaint. He said Insurance  Factory wasnt  to 
blame for the wrong details of where  the car was kept being  recorded. He said it could show  
it had emailed Mr C about  not offering a renewal. He thought Mr C should have noted that 
renewal documents  werent sent to him. He didnt think Insurance  Factory had made  any 
errors. In the investigators view, it had acted  reasonably. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN19472422We cant say whether Mr C gave Insurance Factory the wrong information in 2010  or not, as 
theres no evidence  either  way. But it says every renewal document it sent to Mr C from 
2015 onwards  shows  his car is kept in a locked building. Mr C didnt contact it after getting 
the documents to say that wasnt the case at any point, including when  the last policy  
documents were  issued.  And when he changed  his car partway through  the 2017 / 2018  
policy, he confirmed to the advisor  in the call that the car was kept in a locked  building.  He 
didnt say it was sometimes left on the road. 
Ive listened to the call recording of 8 October  2018  between Mr C and Insurance  Factorys 
advisor. In the call Mr C says Insurance Factory mucked  up in recording where his car was 
kept - but that the insurer had paid the claim anyway. Mr C said he was going to repair the 
recovered stolen  car, so he wanted  the policy  to renew. The advisor said the renewals team 
would carry out a claims check and would then issue  a renewal invite. She didnt say the 
policy would automatically  be renewed.   
Insurance Factory  can show that it sent Mr C a letter by email  four days  later telling him it 
was unable to offer a renewal quote and that the policy would end in two weeks  time. Mr C 
says he didnt get the email, but as it was sent to the right email  address, I dont think  
Insurance Factory  was at fault.  In any event, I think Mr C should have noted  that he didnt 
get renewal documents from Insurance Factory in the usual way. Had he queried that, he 
could have avoided  being without insurance  and all that flowed from it.
After the accident  Mr C asked Insurance Factory  for a quote. It says the only quotes it could 
find were very high. But I dont think Mr C can blame  Insurance  Factory  for that. It has no 
say in the premiums  insurers  set. Mr C also complains that his NCD was stepped back  to 
zero. But that was decided by his insurer, taking account the claims Mr C had made.  
Mr C has found himself  in a very difficult position,  but although I sympathise with him, I dont  
think Insurance Factory  acted unreasonably.  So I cant  uphold  Mr Cs complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1947242