K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Spreadex Limited  has mis-sold him a spread betting account.
background
On 28 March 2017 Mr R applied to open a spread betting account with Spreadex.  He says 
he was inexperienced and didnt understand what execution only meant. Prior to opening 
the account Mr R says he had several calls with Spreadex who coached him on how to 
complete the application process  to ensure  he passed the appropriateness  test. He feels 
Spreadex failed to assess if he was actually an appropriate candidate to open  this type of 
account as he was a customer service  agent and had no trading experience. 
Mr R says Spreadex failed to warn him that these types of accounts were risky but several 
months later after he had lost a significant amount of money, Spreadex  told him the account 
was no longer appropriate for him and closed the account. Mr R says he should  have been 
told this at the outset.
Spreadex has said in order  for Mr R to have opened the account he would have  needed to 
complete an appropriateness test to assess if he had the required knowledge and 
experience to trade. Its said based  on the answers  Mr R provided (specifically his trading 
experience and career within the financial sector)  he was deemed to be appropriate  to open 
an account and trade.  Its satisfied that in the terms of the agreement  and the risk warning, it 
clearly says Spreadex  doesnt  offer investment advice and explains execution only.
It went on to say that from 28 March 2017  to 25 June 2018  Mr R had lost a total of 
£16,666.01. And while this is a lot of money, it was significantly  less than what Mr R had said 
he had in savings.  It confirmed the account  first became  inactive on 14 May 2018 and this 
was due to it receiving charge back requests from Mr Rs bank. It says Mr R was made 
aware of this during a telephone conversation. And again, on  25 June 2018 Mr Rs account  
became inactive for the same  reason  and he was notified.
So it says Mr Rs account wasnt  made inactive due to his appropriateness to trade. Its 
unsure why Mr R received  an email on 30 July 2018  explaining he wasnt appropriate  to 
trade spread bets, as this type of email  is usually sent once a customer opens an account 
and has failed the appropriateness  test. But at this point Mr Rs account  was already 
inactive. Mr R wasnt happy  with Spreadexs final response, so he brought  the complaint to 
our service.  
An investigator at our service looked into Mr Rs complaint but she didnt  recommend  that it 
be upheld. She felt Spreadex had provided  the appropriate warning and she didnt think it 
was unreasonable for it to have relied on the information Mr R provided. She was satisfied 
the concept of execution  only was explained  to Mr R. And confirmed she hadnt been 
provided with any calls prior to Mr R taking out the account. But if Mr R could be more 
specific about the dates and number  he called from she would ask Spreadex  to check  again.
Mr R did provide two dates (29 March  and 31 March 2017) and he also provided his 
partners telephone number. Our investigator  asked  Spreadex  to search for all calls from and 
to that number. Spreadex provided  a call log showing no calls were  placed or received from 
that number. Our investigator did listen to the calls from 29 March and 31 March 2017. But 
as these were placed after Mr R had opened  the account, it didnt change her opinion.  Mr R 
remained unhappy so the case has been passed  to me to consider.
Ref: DRN18393852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
opening of the account
The service  Spreadex provided to Mr R was on an execution only basis,  so it wasnt required 
to assess whether spread betting  was suitable for Mr R. But under the regulators Conduct of
Business Sourcebook  COBS 10, Spreadex had to establish whether this type of trading  was 
appropriate for Mr R. This meant it needed to decide whether he had the necessary 
knowledge and experience to understand the particular risks of spread  betting.
On top of this it needed to explain how spread bets work and the risks involved, and ensure 
appropriate risk warnings were provided alongside the service agreement. I have  reviewed 
the risk warning outlined  in the service agreement, which  Mr R would have had to confirm he 
had read before opening the account.  The warning says you should not deal in these 
products unless you understand their nature and the extent of your exposure to risk.
Spread Bets carry a high risk to your capital-  and goes on to provide further information .So 
I am satisfied the particular risks of spread betting were  explained  clearly  to Mr R.
Ive reviewed the answers Mr R gave  when he opened his account. He confirmed he had 
worked in the financial  sector for at least one year where he had a position which required 
knowledge of over-the counter leveraged derivatives and contingent liability  financial 
products. He confirmed  he understood that spread betting involves a higher level of risk and 
that he could lose more than his original  stake. Also he confirmed he had experience with 
CFDs Spread Bets Futures and shares. Ive also listened to one of the calls Mr R had with 
Spreadex after he had opened the account but before he began  trading. During the call he 
was asked whether  spread betting  was something  he had done before. Mr R confirmed he 
had and the advisor explained he needed  to make sure Mr R was aware of the risks involved 
with spread betting.
I appreciate that Mr R has disputed the accuracy  of the information  he provided during  the 
application process regarding his experience. But I dont think it is unreasonable for 
Spreadex to have  expected Mr R to provide accurate  information  when asked  questions  
about his experience. Especially as they had explained the risks involved with this type of 
account. With that in mind  I am satisfied  that Spreadex did test if Mr R had the appropriate 
knowledge and experience to open a spread bet account. And based on the information     
Mr R provided  at the time I dont think it was unreasonable for Spreadex to conclude  he did 
have the knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in trading.
calls made  prior to opening the account
Ive reviewed the information Spreadex has provided regarding  the calls made  from Mr Rs 
telephone number and his partners.  It has provided a call log showing calls made during that 
period. I cant see any calls made from his partners  number  or his number (prior to him 
opening the account on 28 March  2017).  So while I dont dispute Mr Rs version of events, I 
cant be certain what was discussed (if anything) prior to him opening  the account. But in any 
event, after listening to the calls I am satisfied Mr R was eager to trade. So even if Spreadex  
had said the account wasnt appropriate  for Mr R, I think on balance bearing in mind the 
Ref: DRN18393853information Mr R provided about  his experience and financial  situation,  he would have gone 
ahead anyway (after  reading the risk warning). 
inactive account  
Spreadex has confirmed  that Mr Rs account  was made inactive  in May and June 2018. This 
was due to it receiving several chargebacks  requests from Mr Rs bank  and they told him 
this in two separate telephone calls which I have listened to. Im satisfied this was the reason 
his account was made inactive and nothing to do with whether Spreadex  thought  the 
account was no long appropriate for Mr R. So while I appreciate  that Mr R had received an 
email in July 2018  advising  him that a spread  betting account wasnt  suitable for him, I think  
it is unlikely this was in relation to the account  he opened on 28 March 2017 (which  is the 
subject to this complaint). I say this because as I have explained above Mr R was aware the 
account had been made  inactive and the reasons why, and Spreadex had already assessed  
if Mr R had the appropriate knowledge to open  this account.
execution only
After reading the service  agreement Im satisfied that it explains  Spreadex doesnt provide 
investment advice. And explains  that the service Spreadex provides is on an execution only 
basis and that this means Mr R was responsible  for his own trading decisions. As explained 
above Mr R had to confirm he had read and understood this information before he opened  
the account. So I dont think its fair to conclude that Spreadex didnt provide this information  
in a clear and transparent way. If Mr R was unsure what  this meant for him, he could have 
asked Spreadex to clarify  at any time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1839385