K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation to 
several central heating  and plumbing and drains  insurance policies. 
background
I understand that Mr H has held four policies  with British Gas, for some  time, for four 
different premises. The premises  are within different parts  of one site and consist of a day 
nursery, two classrooms and a domestic  residential  premises. 
There were several claims in early  2018  across all premises,  primarily  related  to blockages 
in the drains. Mr H says that British Gass contractors failed to resolve the drainage  issues 
properly and dealt  with the claims poorly,  including failing to provide time scales  for 
attendances, among  other things. It then cancelled the policies for the commercial premises,  
which meant he had to pay a call out fee of £96 for one claim. Mr H is very unhappy with the 
service provided by British Gas and its contractors. Mr H says that the delays in dealing  with 
the claims (including 10 weeks to repair a damaged  section of pipe) has resulted in a rat 
infestation that he has had to pay to eradicate. Mr H also says he has paid for his own 
contractors to complete  all the repairs required  for £320. This cost,  and a call out fee he was 
charged by British Gass  contractors, should  be reimbursed to him.  Mr H also says he has 
had cover with British Gas for over 27 years  and wants his policies reinstated. 
British Gas says that it resolved each incidence  that it could but some blockages were  on 
parts of the drains  which  were  shared  and this is not covered under the policies. It also told   
Mr H that the policies he held were for ordinary domestic household settings. While it had 
attended to call outs previously, this had been  to individual premises  but the issues that 
arose in early 2018 meant it was attending  all the premises and it became clear to it that 
they were in fact commercial settings. 
British Gas told Mr H that it could no longer provide cover  on a residential  basis  for the 
nursery and two classrooms  for the plumbing  and drainage cover. However,  it said that each 
premises had its own boiler  and central heating system, which  were  the same  size as 
domestic boilers and so it was happy  to continue to provide central  heating  cover as before. 
British Gas acknowledged that a claim for damaged pipework took some  weeks to complete. 
However, it says it still attended to other  claims during this time on other pipework but no 
other issues with the part to be replaced were notified during the period. 
British Gas offered  Mr H compensation of £480.90  (£96 charge refund; £134.90 refund of 
levies for plumbing and drainage cover across  the policies; and £250 compensation for the 
missed visits,  delays  and poor administration). In addition, it offered to consider refunding 
further costs if Mr Hs contractors report was supportive. 
Mr H considers that British Gas should  pay him significantly higher compensation and 
reinstate his policies.  He has made  a number  of submissions. I have summarised  these 
below: 
British Gas hadnt addressed over 100 emails/calls hed made to it and its contractors 
and repeated failed appointments. He should be compensated  for the costs  of such 
Ref: DRN15980202communications and his wasted time and effort. He can provide details of the cost of 
calls but he is in fact seeking a high level gesture given sustained poor 
performance. 
The contractors made no attempt to discover  the reason behind  the increased
number of claims for blockage. It shouldve  carried out a more thorough investigation 
earlier. 
Hes subsequently  had work  carried out by his own contractors, who completed  all 
repairs for the nursery for £320  cash and he has not had any other drainage  issues 
since. This cost should therefore  be reimbursed. 
He had been happy with the cover  provided  by British Gas on the whole for over 27 
years. Its cancellation of the policies with no alternative commercial  policy  provided  
was unsatisfactory.  It did not write to him between January 2018  and June 2018  
advising that cover was terminated and offering alternatives. 
The nursery property was vacated  by his tenants  in April 2017 and was renovated  
with new boiler and radiators, among other things. He continued to pay for the 
policies with British  Gas up until it cancelled the policy in 2018 as on the whole he 
had been happy  with the cover provided. 
He wants the premiums paid between January and June 2018 to be refunded 
(around £120 per month). 
He was not told there was any problem with the cover until he was told the 
contractors couldnt do a repair under the policy and he was charged £96 for the call 
out. However, the drain was left with debris  overflowing and hed been under duress 
to pay the fee, as the contractors said they wouldnt turn up otherwise.
If British Gas had decided it was not prepared to continue to cover him he should 
have been told long before.
During a call on 17 May 2018,  he was asked if he wanted to discuss  commercial
options which you agreed to. However,  British Gas then cancelled  the policy and 
refused to reinstate it or offer any commercial options.
The properties have  not changed since  he first took the policies  out and British Gas 
has always been aware of the use. The number of children  and staff has not 
increased and so there was no good  reason to stop the cover. 
He has never had a rat/rodent problem at the property before and it has to be 
unarguable that the prolonged issues with soil drains must  have  contributed at least 
to this problem.  It took over 10 weeks to complete repairs. A contribution  towards the 
cost of the pest controller is therefore  reasonable. The cost to him was £1,704. 
Compensation should be commensurate with his daily salary  which  is around £400  
per day, for wasted  time when appointments were  not kept and time phoning and 
chasing British  Gas and the contractors. The compensation offered is not a proper 
reflection of this. He has also asked for compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him and the impact  on the nursery  business. 
In response to Mr Hs complaint to this service,  British Gas has also made a number  of 
submissions, which I have also summarised:  
All its telephone numbers are freephone numbers and so Mr H would not have 
incurred any cost in telephoning it. He sent a number of emails,  some were repeats. 
It did not always respond to each  one individually but responded to some collectively. 
The repairs took some  weeks because there  was some discussion  between it and its 
contractors about the cover available. 
It took a while  to investigate whether it could continue the policies for commercial 
properties on a residential property or not. It wanted  to get this decision right, which 
is why it took some  time before it could confirm this to Mr H. It has offered a refund 
Ref: DRN15980203for the parts of the policies that it wouldnt have provided cover  under for the period 
from January to June  2018 (i.e. the plumbing  and drainage elements). Mr H did have 
the benefit of the rest of the cover  over that period,  so it does not consider it 
reasonable to reimburse the entire premiums paid during that period. 
It doesnt have  any alternative policies that it could have offered Mr H. 
He didnt ask to remove any part of the cover when he had his properties renovated 
in 2017 and wanted the plumbing and drainage  cover. It therefore does not consider 
that a full refund of premium is appropriate. 
Its contractors  noted the rat infestation in April 2018 but said it was pre-existing and 
that various gullies  around the property  were not capped, which  was allowing rodents 
access into the property.  
There was a claim in relation to one of the kitchen sinks. The sinks had poorly 
installed pipework which is why smells from the waste pipe are coming back up 
through the sinks. As this is a result of poor installation, it is not covered under the 
policy. The contractors said they could quote  Mr H privately for the work required to 
correct the pipework but it was not the result of any blockage.
While  each property has its own drainage system, they all then connect  into the 
shared drainage which  would be the water  suppliers responsibility and does not fall 
within the cover of policies such as this one. A couple of the claims required work on 
a shared drain, which is the responsibility  of the water board. 
It acknowledges that it has not raised  the commercial use issue before and that this 
will have  set an expectation  with Mr H. It says this is due to inconsistency  with its 
engineers and because they thought  the classrooms were being used as domestic 
dwellings but it confirms its position  that the cover should  always have been 
commercial. 
 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  that it be upheld, as 
although one claim was not dealt  with as promptly as it should,  she was not persuaded that it 
had resulted in the rodent  infestation or any loss of business. British  Gas had taken account 
of the missed appointments and the calls  Mr  H had to make when responding to his 
complaint, she did not think  it needed to individually answer each and every  point raised.  
The investigator thought all the other claims had been dealt with within a reasonable time 
and there  was no evidence that British Gass contractors carried out substandard  work,  or 
didnt complete any of the repair work  satisfactorily. 
The investigator also considered that British Gas was entitled to cancel the policies, as they 
were not appropriate  for the commercial  premises. 
Overall she thought that British Gass offer of settlement of the complaint was reasonable. 
Mr H doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment  and so the matter has been referred to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cancellation of cover
I can understand it might have been frustrating and unexpected when British Gas informed   
Mr H that it could no longer offer plumbing  and drainage cover for the properties  that are 
Ref: DRN15980204used for commercial operations. However  it is generally for a business to decide what  cover 
it is prepared to offer and for what price.  We can not interfere with such decisions generally,  
unless a particular  customer  has been  treated in a materially unfair way compared to other  
consumers in similar circumstances. 
I am aware  that Mr H could say that the cancellation of these policies, especially after so 
many years, is materially unfair to him. However,  that is not the test. I have seen no 
evidence that British Gas would not have reached  the same  decision for another  customer in 
similar circumstances. The policies that Mr H held were domestic  ones and the fact that the 
properties were commercial settings, with a number of staff and children attending each day 
would affect the risk it is agreeing to take under these policies. I am not therefore persuaded 
that it was unfair or unreasonable for it to decide  that it could no longer  cover the plumbing 
and drainage for these properties. (This increased risk is also demonstrated by the findings  
of the contractors at some  of the call outs in early 2018, which  included  a few occasions  
where wet wipes  had caused the drains to block and one where a plastic  toy was the cause.) 
I consider its position, that it will however continue to cover the central  heating  systems and 
electrics (as the commercial setting makes no difference to the risk under this cover)  to be 
reasonable. 
The recording of the call on 17 May 2018  isnt available but British Gass  note of this call 
says: "received call from call centre as customer is wanting complaint chased  up and the 
contracts setting up properly on his account it has been confirmed that customer  can have  
Homecare Two and Four but has to have the plumbing and drains  and electrical cover
under commercial use."
This does  suggest  that Mr H was given the impression  that some  commercial alternatives 
would be available  but British Gas now says it has no suitable  alternative  policies for Mr H. 
While this may have added to the frustration for Mr H, I do not consider I can make any 
specific award in relation  to this. If British Gas doesnt provide cover  for commercial settings 
such as operated by Mr H, then it cant do anything more. However, I can understand that 
this decision would have  been frustrating for Mr H, especially given that he had held these 
policies for so long and that British Gas could/should  have known what the premises  were  
used for all along. 
  
I note it offered to refund the premiums Mr H paid for the plumbing and drainage part for the 
policies for the period January to June  2018  (when it cancelled  the policies) and I consider 
this to be reasonable. I see no reason  why it should be required  to refund the entire  
premium, given that Mr H has confirmed he was happy with the cover  he had and that it had 
provided such cover for that period.
claims handling
Mr H says there were delays in dealing  with his claims. Most of the claims were dealt with in 
a reasonable time although  I understand there were some missed appointments. There was 
also some  delay, which could have been  avoided,  in relation to the claim involving the 
replaced pipework.  There was some delay in getting the CCTV inspection carried  out and 
then several weeks between getting the results of that and the work to repair the pipework 
completed. In total I understand this claim took 10 weeks  to resolve. However,  there were no 
other reports of blockages to this section of drain  in that period, as far as I am aware and so 
Ref: DRN15980205while it should have  been completed sooner  than this, I am not persuaded that this caused  
any significant or material distress or inconvenience.  
Theres also no evidence available to me that there  was any financial detriment to the 
nursery business. Mr H has not provided any evidence of loss of business or profit. As far as 
I am aware  the nursery  was operating as normal during the repair  period. 
Mr H also says that British Gas should  have made  further investigations  to find the reason 
why he was experiencing so many drainage issues. The policies he held are not 
maintenance contracts. British Gas is only responsible for dealing with claims for emergency 
situations that arise  within the period of cover, which it did. I note,  however,  that it did identify 
that the fall/gradient of some of the drainage pipes was not sufficient, which meant that water  
was pooling in certain areas. This would  make blockages more  likely. But if this is something 
that is inherent with the drainage system  and a result of how it was designed  and installed,  
then British Gas would have no responsibility for rectifying this. 
Had to call British Gas out several times  over a relatively short  period of time, there is no 
independent evidence that its contractors  didnt carry out any investigations or repairs it did 
properly. I am not therefore persuaded there is any evidence  that British  Gas should have 
done more in this regard.  
rat infestation
Mr H says that the delays  by British Gas in dealing with the claims caused  the infestation. 
However, there is simply no convincing evidence  that this is the case.  While it took several 
weeks to deal with one of the claims,  there is no evidence as far as I am aware that this 
caused the problem. Mr H has provided  an invoice  from the contractors he employed to deal 
with the rat infestation. It doesnt state anything which would support that British Gas is 
responsible for this. I am not therefore  persuaded that I can reasonably  ask British  Gas to 
reimburse the costs  of this work.  
expenses
The investigator asked  Mr H for an invoice and any report from his own contractors in 
relation to the work they did. Mr H says they attended when British Gas refused to do so and 
conducted CCTV inspection of the manholes  and drains for each property; repaired a 
manhole and rodded and cleared another blockage.   
British Gas says that repairs  to a manhole  are not covered  but said it would consider 
reimbursement of the rest of the costs on production of the invoice. Mr H has said he paid in 
cash and no report or invoice has been  provided.  Without one I am unable  to ask British  Gas 
to reimburse Mr H. 
British Gas has already  agreed to reimburse  the call out fee that Mr H paid its contractor to 
attend, when it had cancelled the cover. I consider  this to be reasonable. 
Mr H has also said he incurred considerable expense in contacting British Gas about these 
matters. No evidence  of any such cost has been  provided in response  to the investigators 
response and in any event, British Gas says its telephone numbers are all free to call. I am 
unable therefore  to consider this any further.  
compensation
Ref: DRN15980206British Gas has offered  Mr H £250 compensation for the trouble caused by its handling of 
these matters. Overall I consider this to be reasonable, having regard to all the 
circumstances, including  the time taken to deal with one of the claims, missed appointments  
and the decision  to cancel Mr Hs policies. 
Mr H has suggested that he should  receive compensation for his time, commensurate with 
his pay rate. We do not normally assess compensation  in this way. I am satisfied that the 
amount already offered  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  and is in line with 
awards made in other similar scenarios. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, as I consider that British Gas Insurance  Limited has already 
made a reasonable offer in full and final settlement of the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1598020