K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Acromas Insurance Company Limited didnt pay a claim he made on his 
motor breakdown policy.
background
Mr L bought the policy  in February 2019. When he made a claim on it shortly afterwards, 
Acromas queried what the van was used for. Mr L said he used it for pallet wood removals 
and delivery. Acromass advisor  said that fell under the hire and reward  policy  exclusion.  
Mr L accepted  it at the time, but later on he called Acromas again to query it. 
An advisor told him he should have  read the policys terms and conditions  at the start. Mr L 
said his partner had set the policy up for him, but she didnt think  the exclusion was clear 
enough. Mr L also told Acromas that although  he intended to use the van for his business, 
he hadnt actually  done so between  buying it in January  2019  and selling it in March 2019.  
He also said his main  motor policy showed  he didnt  use the van for hire and reward.  
Acromas said the policy was bought online,  where a disclaimer  was shown stating that under 
the breakdown  policy  vehicles  would  only be covered for private use. It said the full terms 
and conditions were  available to view at that point and were  sent out after the purchase.  It 
said Mr Ls van was ineligible for cover, as he ran a collection and delivery service. It also 
said it was irrelevant that he wasnt using the van for business at the time of the breakdown.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ls complaint. She noted  the disclaimer  set out in the 
online process and said the policy booklet  also referred to the limitation. It said the 
breakdown cover excluded vehicles used  to carry goods for reward.  She said although  
Mr Ls motor insurance policy showed  he didnt carry out hire and reward business,  hed told 
Acromas in the calls after the claim was made  that he did. She said Acromas had also found 
references to Mr Ls business on social media  and other sites.  Mr L said the reviews of his 
business were from the previous year, when he was using another van. And he gave us 
evidence to show hed been in receipt  of benefits since early February 2019. 
The investigator said shed listened  to the call between Mr L and Acromas after it queried the 
claim, and that he hadnt told the advisor  then that the van wasnt  used for hire and reward.  
In her view it was reasonable for Acromas  to decline the claim. As there was no agreement,  
the complaint  was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was for Mr L to ensure that the cover he was buying was right for his needs. Mr L 
told us he thought the policy would  pay out - no matter what sort of work he undertook  - as a 
recovery driver had advised him to buy it, knowing he did business removals. Even  if thats 
the case, it was still Mr Ls responsibility to check the facts. 
Ref: DRN18363452I think the online disclaimer stating  that the policy only covered a vehicle for private  use was 
clear enough. It said a vehicle wouldnt be covered if used  to provide transport in return  for 
payment. The policy  booklet said cover was excluded if a vehicle was used to carry goods 
for reward. So I think Mr L should have been aware that his van was ineligible for cover, as 
his intention was to use it mainly for business, even  if he also used it privately.
When Mr L first called Acromas to ask what the query on the claim was, he didnt say he 
wasnt using the van for business purposes  when  the van broke down. Nor did he say that 
he hadnt used  it for business since he took out the policy. Mr Ls reply to being told the 
claim wasnt covered was to say only that it was a shame. 
Mr L says it was a short  conversation and he has suggested that he didnt get the chance to 
describe his situation at the time. Ive listened  to the call and there  was no pressure from the 
advisor to end it. He even  took the time to advise Mr L to cancel the policy as it was of no 
benefit to him. I think Mr L had every chance to query what the advisor had said and to 
explain his position  at that point  - although  I cant  see how it would have made  any 
difference to the outcome.   
Mr L did tell Acromas later on that he hadnt  used the van for business purposes. He also 
provided a certificate  of insurance for it. The certificate shows he wasnt insured for hire and 
reward. But Mr L had already told Acromas that he intended to use the van for payment in 
carrying goods. He had advertised  his business as a man and a van service. Theres  
evidence that hed used a previous van for the same  business. It looks as though the main 
policy may not have  provided cover had Mr L had to claim on it. And I dont think  the 
certificate of insurance assists Mr L with his claim on the breakdown  policy.
Mr L has given us evidence that he thinks shows the van was never used for business 
purposes prior to the claim. Im not sure its relevant, given his stated intention to use it for 
hire and reward. But I dont think the evidence is conclusive anyway. Mr L says the van had 
problems when he bought it. He cited a faulty fuel sensor. Hes also shown that he was in 
receipt of benefits.  I dont  think  these pieces of information show categorically that the van 
wasnt used for business purposes at some point  prior to the breakdown. But in my opinion  
the van was ineligible for cover anyway, given Mr Ls intentions.
As I dont think Acromas acted unreasonably, I cant uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1836345