K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that hearing  aids financed  through an agreement  with Hitachi  Capital (UK) 
Plc (Hitachi) were  mis-sold to her.
background
In October  2018 Ms W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi  to fund the 
purchase of some hearing aids from a supplier Ill call B. 
In March 2019 she complained to Hitachi as she said the aids had been mis-sold to her. She 
said the product  was outdated and an upgraded version was available  in October  2018.  She 
said this was comparable  to others  on the market and offered Bluetooth connectivity and 
smart phone  adjustment.  She said she needed  this as her arthritis  made it difficult  to make  
adjustments without  it, and she suggested  the sales  literature provided by B had been  out of 
date.
Hitachi didnt uphold  Ms Ws claim. They talked to B who explained that Ms W had been 
happy with the devices  when she attended  a review  in November  2018.  They  said that when 
she paid the deposit for the aids in September 2018 the upgraded model  with smart phone 
connectivity had not been released. So Hitachi didnt think there was evidence the aids had 
been mis-sold to Ms W.
Ms W therefore referred her complaint  to this service and our investigator provided  his view. 
He explained  that as there was evidence the upgraded devices were  not available  at the 
time, he could not say the product Ms W received was mis-sold  to her. He noted Ms W 
hadnt complained until March 2019 and he thought, if smart phone connectivity  was such  an 
important feature to her, she would have  complained earlier  than that. So he didnt think 
Hitachi had been  unreasonable.
Ms W disagreed with the investigators view. She explained that shed been promised the 
phone connectivity  would  be available to her at a later stage and that even if the 
manufacturer of her aids hadnt released an upgraded version,  when she made  her enquiry, 
there were clearly other  aids on the market,  from other manufacturers, that did have  that 
connectivity and should have been  offered to her. She therefore  asked  for a final decision  by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms W but I agree  with our investigators view.  Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN15074842When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan for that product,  as is the case here, it might be possible to recover  the money  paid 
through a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in 
certain circumstances,  the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider  as against the supplier if there's either a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Ms W made a claim through  them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
So if I found that Ms W was told something that wasnt true and which  led her to enter into a 
finance agreement  that she would not have otherwise entered into, then Id ask Hitachi  to 
take some  action.
But here I am not persuaded that was the case.  When Ms W paid her deposit and had her 
initial consultation with B theyve  explained  that the aids from the manufacturer Ms W chose 
were not available with smart phone connectivity.  Im persuaded that was most  likely the 
case. So it would not be fair to suggest B were offering out of date hearing aids.  They  were 
offering the version that was available to them at the time.
And even  if I was persuaded the goods had been misrepresented to Ms W, I would need  to 
be satisfied that the misrepresentation led her to proceed with the sale when she would not 
have done so if the misrepresentation hadnt  taken place. Im not persuaded thats the case 
here as I think if phone connectivity was so important Ms W would have been likely  to 
complain about  the lack of it earlier. I understand Ms W says she was promised connectivity 
later but B dispute that and point to a satisfactory  review of the devices in November 2018. 
Whilst I understand Ms W contests how much  was done at that review I do think  its likely 
that if phone  connectivity had been  promised and not delivered, or if it was a very important 
feature Ms W was expecting, she would have been likely to raise it at that point. 
So overall I dont  think theres sufficient  evidence of misrepresentation and I dont think  
Hitachi have been  unreasonable when rejecting Ms Ws claim.
Ref: DRN15074843my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1507484