K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance ("BPF"),  mishandled his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 
("S75"), for issues with a fitted kitchen that had been purchased via a fixed  sum loan.
background
In August  2018  Mr M decided to purchase a new kitchen from a retailer,  and it was also 
agreed that the retailer would arrange  for it to be fitted. Mr M paid a deposit and arranged a 
fixed sum loan with BPF for the balance.
The work to fit the kitchen  started  in November  2018, but Mr M raised complaints about the 
wrong hob being supplied  and fitted; the utility sink not being fitted square; holes inside the 
cupboards where  the fitter had made  a mistake about which  side the doors  should  be 
hung; blemishes  on the worktops, missing back panels in the cupboards under the sinks; 
gaps between the worktop  and the panels;  doors  not in alignment  and the overhang on the 
worktop being too short meaning water dripped off it on to the units.
Mr M was also unhappy at the length  of time taken to fit the kitchen, that his family had to 
cope without a kitchen sink for several  weeks and that the fitter had to come back several 
times to refit the work tops. This also meant  Mr M had to arrange  for a plumber to attend to 
remove and refit taps. Mr M's back doors were also damaged during a delivery of units.
Mr M complained to the kitchen retailer, and to BPF, seeking compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused over the time it had taken for the kitchen to be fitted and for the 
kitchen to be put right. He also wanted the hob to be changed  to the one he said he'd 
ordered and for his deposit to be reimbursed.
BPF opened a claim, under S75, for Mr M in February 2019. BPF liaised with the retailer 
over the hob and the other  issues raised  by Mr M, and the retailer  made Mr M an offer of
£1550 in full and final settlement of his complaint in August 2019.
In September  2019 Mr M made a complaint about the kitchen to the Furniture  Ombudsman  
and BPF said that as two complaints couldn't be open at the same  it would close  its one until 
an outcome was reached with the Financial  Ombudsman. However, BPF offered Mr M £150 
as compensation  for the distress and inconvenience of having to make a complaint  as it said 
it was accepted there were issues with the kitchen.
Mr M was unhappy at the response of BPF and so complained to this service. This service 
started to investigate,  during which the Furniture  Ombudsman concluded its investigation 
and issued its decision on Mr M's complaint. The Furniture Ombudsman  issued  a detailed 
response to the matters  raised and concluded that the offer by the retailer  was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. BPF said in light of the findings of the Furniture 
Ombudsman it would now close the S75 claim made  by Mr M.
Mr M was unhappy at the decision  reached by the Furniture Ombudsman, he disagreed  
with the findings and said that no site visit had taken  place. He said it would cost 
considerably more than the offer from the retailer to fix the issues  with the kitchen. The 
retailer re-visited Mr M's home to inspect  the kitchen and said that it wasn't prepared  to do 
more and that its offer was fair.
Ref: DRN17444122Our investigator upheld  Mr M's complaint about BPF and his S75 claim. She said that she 
didn't think  BPF's decision that the retailer's offer adequately resolved Mr M's complaint 
was fair.
Our investigator said that she was unaware of the guidelines used by the Furniture  
Ombudsman when  considering a complaint form a consumer, but the issue for this service 
was whether there had been  a breach  of contract. She said there was an implied term that 
goods would  be fitted with reasonable care and skill and the consumer can expect goods to 
be free from minor defects. Looking at the evidence, and the comments  from the Furniture 
Ombudsman, there were  gaps and minor blemishes present and this wasn't something that 
this service would  expect to see.
Our investigator thought that it had been reasonable for BPF to await the outcome of 
the Furniture Ombudsman's  decision, but it hadn't done enough to fulfil its obligations 
under S75. She said it needed to do more to remedy this and this could  be by either:
Giving the retailer  one more  opportunity to attend Mr M's home and put things right
Offer more  in the way of a price reduction on the kitchen to reflect  the number 
of times  the retailer had attempted to rectify issues
Paying Mr M the amount needed  to put things  right via a third-party  contractor.
BPF disagreed with the view reached  by our investigator. It said the Furniture  Ombudsman  
was considered an independent expert  in this area,  and its ruling should carry more  weight  
than that given to it by the investigator. It also said that this service had acknowledged the 
expertise of the Furniture Ombudsman in another case.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
I'd seen that a large amount of evidence has been provided by Mr M in respect of his 
complaint. This included  photographs and a report from a third-party company setting out 
what, in their opinion,  required to be redone and the cost of that work. I'd also seen that the 
issues raised by Mr M with this service  were the ones that were raised with Furniture 
Ombudsman.
Mr M made a claim under S75 to BPF for compensation and for the kitchen to be put right. 
My role wasn't  to decide BPF's liability under S75 but, instead, to consider whether BPF 
had acted fairly when  dealing  with Mr M's complaint. I also couldn't  look at allegations of 
poor service by the retailer  or its employees, complaints about that would have to be made 
to the retailer.
S75 says that, in certain  circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement (Mr M) has 
an equal right to claim against  the credit provider  (BPF), if there has been either a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier  of goods and services.
For a credit provider to be held liable under S75 certain provisions must be fulfilled. These 
are:
The total value of the goods or services purchased is not less than £100 and 
does not exceed £30,000 and
Ref: DRN17444123An unbroken debtor-creditor-supplier  chain  to the transaction  exists, and
There  is a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Here I thought it was agreed that the first two conditions  had been  met. And Mr M was 
clearly dissatisfied with the quality of the kitchen that had been fitted and had raised a 
number of issues such as blemishes on the worktop  and holes wrongly drilled when the 
doors were fitted to the units. He had provided photos to show the areas he was unhappy  
about.
Mr M complained to the Furniture Ombudsman while his claim under S75 was being 
investigated by BPF.  BPF had relied on the Furniture Ombudsman's  view of the quality 
of the kitchen when deciding what action  it was required to take in regard  to Mr M's 
claim.
Mr M was unhappy at the view reached by the Furniture Ombudsman and felt it hadn't  fully 
looked at the issues  he raised, nor did it conduct an independent inspection  of the kitchen.
I'd seen that the Furniture  Ombudsman was satisfied that some of the aspects of the 
kitchen were not as would reasonably  be expected, but it also found that the 
compensation, already offered by the retailer,  was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
As the Furniture Ombudsman is recognised as an alternative dispute  resolution 
organisation, I didn't think I could reasonably dismiss the view it had reached. Nor did I 
think that it would be appropriate and fair for me to act as an appellant jurisdiction for 
consumers unhappy  with outcomes from that organisation, unless there  was a particular 
reason why, such as evidence  had come to light that wasn't  available  before. The views of 
the Furniture Ombudsman  become  legally  binding on the business  if accepted  by the 
consumer. Here, everything was considered  by the Furniture Ombudsman, and its 
approach to issues such as compensation for having to take time off work  was the same 
as this service.
As we would be assessing the same evidence  as the Furniture Ombudsman, I thought  it 
was reasonable  to take into account that the Furniture Ombudsman  had already conducted  
an assessment of the evidence provided  by Mr M and reached an impartial  and objective 
view. And I couldnt see any reason to go against  what the Furniture Ombudsman had said.
The Furniture Ombudsman found that there were areas where the kitchen installation had 
not been up to the expected standard. This meant that there was a breach of the contract, 
as there  would be an implied  term that the kitchen would be fitted with reasonable care 
and skill, and the goods supplied were of satisfactory quality.  However, this had also been 
accepted by the retailer who had offered Mr M compensation to reflect  the impact of this 
breach.
As there had been a breach of contract  then Mr M's claim under S75 was allowed and I'd 
seen that BPF had accepted that. It credited back to Mr M £150  for the distress and 
inconvenience of having to make  the complaint but had not offered anything further in light 
of the view of the Furniture Ombudsman  that the compensation, already offered by the 
retailer, was fair.
I'd seen that the retailer paid Mr M the compensation  it had offered and which the Furniture  
Ref: DRN17444124Ombudsman found to be a fair redress. BPF has said that this is evidence Mr M accepted  
the outcome and was therefore  bound  by the Furniture Ombudsman's findings. Mr M said 
he cashed the cheque as he was concerned  this service might  not uphold his complaint. I 
could understand  why Mr M had acted as he had, and I couldn't  see that he had signed 
anything to say he agreed to be bound by the Furniture Ombudsman's decision so I didn't 
think this action would have in itself prohibited this service looking at Mr M's complaint.
However, although I appreciated that this would be of disappointment to Mr M, I wasnt 
intending to uphold his complaint. I thought BPF had acted fairly in dealing  with his claim 
under S75. It had recognised  there  was a breach  of contract and provided compensation 
for the distress caused to Mr M in having to bring his complaint. It had also relied on the 
view of a recognised alternative  dispute resolution organisation, which had assessed what 
would be a fair settlement for the breach in contract and found that the offer of 
compensation by the retailer was fair and reasonable. The Furniture  Ombudsman  has 
already assessed  the evidence and given an objective view and I didn't think  I had a 
reason to re-assess that.
BPF has agreed with my provisional  decision but Mr M says he is disappointed  that I have 
issued a different  decision  to that of the investigator. He also says no independent  
specialist third party company has inspected the kitchen other than the report he arranged. 
Mr M says the compensation provided has been  inadequate to reflect the distress  and time 
off work he had to take in sorting out the various  issues that arose  with the kitchen. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that my provisional  decision is a disappointment to Mr M particularly as its a 
different outcome to that recommended by the investigator.  But my role is to look again at 
the complaint  and reach a fair and objective decision. Here,  I dont think  I can reasonably  
ignore the view that was already provided  by the Furniture Ombudsman. That alternative 
dispute resolution service  has looked  at all the same  evidence  that I have been provided  
with when reaching its conclusions. It has looked  at the same issues  that we would and 
considered what  would be a fair remedy for the breach of contract.
Mr M is concerned that no third-party specialist has independently inspected his kitchen, but 
that isnt something  this service would arrange. What  we would do, and what the Furniture  
Ombudsman also did, is look at the evidence provided by the parties.  Ive seen that Mr M 
had arranged for an inspection and that this report was included  in his evidence.  
Mr M says that the compensation he has received is inadequate  for all the stress and effort  
he had to put into dealing with the issues that arose when the kitchen was being  fitted.  
However, as explained  above, I am not looking at the actions of the retailer  but how BPF 
dealt with Mr Ms claim under S75. So, although I do understand this has been a difficult  time 
for Mr M, the issues he would  like addressed by compensation  arent ones that I can hold 
BPF responsible for. 
So, looking  again  at this complaint I havent changed my view as I think  BPF handled his 
complaint fairly. It accepted there had been  a breach of contract  and compensated Mr M for 
having to bring  his complaint. It also considered the view of the Furniture Ombudsman and 
Ref: DRN17444125found that that services view regarding the compensation offered by the retailer was fair to 
be a reasonable  and fair outcome. For the reasons  given above, Im not upholding  Mr Ms 
complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1744412