K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about Phoenix Life Assurance Limiteds (Phoenix)  advice to invest  in 
some with-profit funds.  Mrs B is being represented  by a Claims Management Company 
(CMC).
In short  the CMC says:
Too much  of her money  was invested 
Mrs B was an inexperienced investor  and its unclear how her attitude  to risk was 
established
The investment  carried a greater degree  of risk than she was willing  to take  
Mrs Bs had suffered  from two bereavements around the time of sale
background
Mrs B met with an adviser in May 1998.  The adviser  obtained  information  about Mrs B which  
showed:
Mrs B had a moderate attitude  to risk. In other  words, she was equally concerned 
with achieving capital  growth as well as the security for her capital.
She wanted to invest a lump sum (£1,000) for a minimum  of 5 years  and maximum of 
10 years.  She was looking for capital growth for her, and there  was mention of 
providing for her granddaughter as well. 
She had a net disposable income of around £550 and £10,000 in cash  deposit 
She had previous investment experience  with £10,000  in an investment bond  and 
£9,000 in a Personal Equity Plan (PEP)
As a result of her circumstances, the adviser recommended  an investment plan invested in a 
with-profits fund. 
In September  1999, Mrs B invested £50,000 (surrendered in September 2004 for 
£52,353.23) and in November 1999 she invested  £30,000 (still in force) into separate 
investment plans which were also invested  in with-profits funds.  Both amounts of money  
were from inheritance for the purposes of growth to use in retirement and her circumstances 
were similar to that in 1998. Despite these investments, Mrs B still had very substantial cash 
deposits as well as various other investments (£21,400 in a PEP and £10,000 in various  
investment bonds,  as well as £167,000  in cash deposits).   
Phoenix rejected  the complaint. In summary  it said:
The with-profit funds were low risk investments so Mrs Bs capital  was not exposed to 
excessive risk 
She retained a reasonable  amount of funds for emergencies.  The illustrations made  
clear the returns on the policies werent  guaranteed and were dependant  on the 
future growth rates.  
Mrs B also had some experience of investing in with-profits funds, and held different 
types of savings plans and investments, including PEPs, and bonds, with different 
levels of risk. 
Phoenix offered  £75 compensation for the time taken to deal with her complaint. 
Ref: DRN11188952The complaint was brought to our service where one of our adjudicators  considered the 
complaint but didnt  think it should  be upheld. In summary, he said:
Based  on the evidence the recommendations made between  1998 and 1999 were 
suitable. 
At the time she owned  her property outright with no mortgage, she had no 
dependents and she had sufficient  money  set aside for emergencies.
The investment  plans were in with-profits  funds  which are generally  considered  low 
risk. In the circumstances the recommendation was suitable for Mrs B who was 
established as a moderate risk investor  with growth and security  as equal concerns, 
and she had investment  experience  in with-profits funds. 
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman  to consider 
the complaint.  In summary, it said:
Mrs B was an inexperienced investor  and made withdrawals on some of the plans 
within three years so the advice  was unsuitable   
The recommendations were within with-profits funds and therefore lacked 
diversification
So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint   Ill explain why. 
Mrs B received advice  so the adviser  had a responsibility to make  sure any recommendation 
made was suitable  for her circumstances and needs. I acknowledge the point  the CMC has 
made about Mrs Bs circumstances,  specifically that she had experienced two bereavements 
at around the time of sale.  But I dont think this necessarily  means  the recommendation by 
Phoenix was unsuitable.  
Having looked  at the evidence, Im persuaded that these investment plans didnt expose 
Mrs Bs capital  to more risk than she was able and willing  to take.  I say this because  Mrs B 
was clearly concerned  with not exposing her capital to too much  risk. Im satisfied this was 
an accurate reflection of her circumstances between 1998 and 1999. I think its clear from 
the evidence available  that she wanted her money to grow  for the future, providing a lump  
sum at the end of the term.  But it was also important that the money be protected to a 
degree from significant drops in value. Given the way with-profits  work, in particular the way 
bonuses are applied,  Im satisfied they were in line with these objectives. The pooling of her 
money as well as the application of bonuses would, to a certain  extent, protect her capital 
from large fluctuations  in value; while at the same time give her an opportunity to grow her 
capital for the long term.  
Mrs B was looking  for an investment which gave her a measure of capital security  as well as 
the potential for growth in the long term. Given these objectives,  and Mrs Bs particular 
circumstances, Im satisfied that the advisers recommendation that she invest  in a with-
profits fund was suitable for her. 
Ref: DRN11188953The CMC says the recommendations lacked diversification, but in this instance Im not 
persuaded that they did. With-profit funds  are by their nature diversified as the funds are 
invested in a mix of assets such company shares, property, cash  deposits and alternative 
investments, unlike an investment in a specific asset  or equity. I say this bearing  in mind that 
Mrs B already had, by the time she invested in 1999, significant  cash deposits,  other  
investment bonds  and tax efficient savings accounts. This financial background clearly 
informed the advisers  recommendations  at the time. 
From the information available  Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs B couldnt  afford  to put this 
money away for five years, and Ive seen no evidence that she explained  to the adviser  that 
she might  need access to this money in the short term.  So I dont believe Phoenix can be 
held responsible for her decision to make early  withdrawals on some  of her investment  
plans.. 
In the circumstances, I dont think the investments carried any more  risk than Mrs B was 
willing to accept for her capital, and Im persuaded given Mrs Bs particular  circumstance and 
her objectives at the time that the advice  was suitable for her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1118895