K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains about the way that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC handled the block on her 
credit card when she was abroad.
background
Mrs D tried to top up her mobile  phone using her Tesco credit card while abroad but her card 
had been blocked.
As Mrs D wasnt able to call Tesco  using  her mobile phone, she used social media to try and 
get a message through. Tesco then incorrectly told Mrs D that it had sent her a text message 
about the block on her account. It wasnt until 25 January 2019 that Tesco tried  
unsuccessfully  to call Mrs D.
Mrs D complained as she was still abroad  without access to her credit card. Mrs D was 
unhappy that Tesco couldnt  offer her an alternative way of making  contact, such as offering 
a reverse charge call.
Mrs D also thought that Tesco should  give customers  the opportunity to say when they are 
going to use their card abroad.
The investigator agreed that Tesco  should  have contacted Mrs D sooner than it did. He 
recommended Tesco  pay Mrs D £100  compensation in addition to the £20 it had offered to 
cover any call costs.
The investigator explained that he wasnt able to interfere in Tescos commercial  decision 
not to offer an alternative way to make contact or to recommend that customers tell it about 
any travel  plans.
Tesco doesnt agree  with the investigators recommendation to pay Mrs D £100. It says that 
Mrs D was aware that the block  had been placed on her card as her husband contacted  
Tesco on 21 January 2019. 
Tesco doesnt agree  with the investigators recommendation to pay Mrs D £100. It says that 
Mrs Ds husband contacted it the day after it had applied the block. So although Tesco  didnt 
contact Mrs D about the block  she was aware of it. Tesco says that during the call, Mrs Ds 
husband said that he would contact her by WhatsApp and suggest she ring the number on 
the back of her credit card.
Tesco says that if Mrs D had needed her credit  card urgently, her husband could have made 
contact again.
As Tesco doesnt agree with the investigators  recommendation, Mrs Ds complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators recommendation. 
Ref: DRN17073812When Tesco  responded to the investigators  recommendation, it said that although  it 
planned to contact Mrs D the day after the block was applied, her husband had already  said 
she was out of the country and was therefore unreachable.
Tesco felt that after speaking with Mrs Ds husband,  he would pass a message on to his wife 
who could then make  contact using the overseas number on her credit card.
Although I appreciate that Tesco thought Mrs Ds husband  would ask his wife to use a 
different phone, I dont think that Tesco shouldve relied upon this happening.
Ive listened to the recording of the call that Tesco had with Mrs Ds husband. Although    
Mrs Ds husband says that his wife is out of the country, I dont think he said she couldnt be 
contacted  rather that she couldnt use her phone to make outbound calls as she couldnt 
top it up. So I still consider that Tesco shouldve attempted to contact  Mrs D sooner than it 
did.
By the time that Mrs D contacted Tesco via social media a few days later, I think  it was clear 
she was having  difficulties requesting that the block be removed. Although Tesco  says that 
Mrs D didnt ask it to call her back,  it would seem  a reasonable response given what  Tesco  
knew about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time.
Overall I consider that Tesco  should have done more to try and contact  Mrs D once the 
block had been  applied. I think that £100  compensation  is a fair reflection of the stress and 
upset the situation caused to Mrs D while she was away.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part.
In full and final settlement  I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Mrs D £100.
For the avoidance of doubt, this £100 payment is in addition  to the £20 that Tesco has 
already offered to pay for call costs.  So if Tesco  hasnt done so, it should  pay Mrs D the £20 
as well as the £100 compensation that Ive ordered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1707381