K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  policy  (MPPI), taken out in 2003. 
Mr P says that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the MPPI.
Mr P was sold a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  TMPP can be split into sections, namely 
Mortgage Repayments Cover (which  is a form of MPPI), Life Cover  and Critical Illness  Cover 
(CIC).
Mr P has complained about the MPPI cover so Ive only looked at the sale of the MPPI element of 
the package in this decision.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Mr Ps complaint, explaining that Id come to the 
same outcome as our adjudicator but for different reasons.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither BoS nor Mr P has responded to my provisional decision   so I see no reason to 
depart from it.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  by 17 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19725832provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection policy  (MPPI), taken  out in 2003.  Mr P says 
that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the MPPI.
Mr P was sold a Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  TMPP can be split into sections, namely Mortgage 
Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr P has complained about the MPPI cover so Ive only looked at the sale of the MPPI element of the 
package in this decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr P says that BoS told him that the MPPI was compulsory  and that he wouldnt get his mortgage 
without taking  out the cover. But BoS has said that Mr P didnt have his mortgage with it. BoS has told 
us it sold Mr P a stand-alone MPPI policy. Our adjudicator thought  that it was possible Mr P did have  
a mortgage with BoS, but that it closed  at some  time in 2007. But I disagree. BoS has provided  
screen shots that show there was no mortgage  and from experience I know  that these  are a reliable 
source of determining what products a consumer has held with the business  over time.  If Mr P has 
any paperwork he thinks supports that he did have a mortgage with BoS, then I would ask that he 
provide this to the service.
So with this in mind,  I dont find it persuasive that Mr P was told by BoS that he had to take out MPPI 
in order to secure his mortgage. And I think  BoS made it clear  that Mr P didnt have to take out the 
MPPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this as it 
was so long ago.
BoS recommended  the MPPI to Mr P so it had to check that the MPPI was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr P about the MPPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But 
he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI  would  have  put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mr P.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including  what  hes said about  having savings and sick 
pay, so he didnt need the cover. But the MPPI couldve paid out on top of this  and as Mr P knew he 
had a choice in taking  the policy, he chose to do so knowing what  cover he already had in place.  So 
this point doesnt  change my decision.
Ref: DRN19725833other considerations
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), issued some 
rules about  how lenders  should deal with complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission where 
PPI was sold. 
But BoS wasnt Mr Ps lender. So I dont think these rules apply.  
my provisional  decision
I currently dont plan on upholding this complaint.
Mr P and Bank of Scotland Plc can provide anything further for me to consider by 11 May 2019, after 
which Ill issue  my final decision.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1972583