K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) regarding the points scheme operated  on 
his credit card. He thinks he missed out on a cabin upgrade and wants  to be compensated 
for the difference  in his flight value, and his time spent on this complaint. 
background
Mr L holds a credit card with Lloyds.  He initially opened an earlier credit card account in the 
month of April, but upgraded his account in August 2017. 
The account  he upgraded to offered points which could be used  on flights, and if customers 
spend £7000  on qualifying transactions within a year, they would receive a voucher for a 
cabin upgrade voucher (CUV) to use on a flight booked within  the following year. 
Mr L received his card in August  2017  and reached  his spending target  of £7000 by the 
beginning of October 2017,  receiving his CUV shortly afterwards. 
In late July 2018, Mr L telephoned Lloyds  to ask when the period for his transactions  to 
qualify for a further CUV would  renew. He explained on the call that he believed he had 
upgraded the card the previous July so thought that the current  period must be soon to 
expire. 
The agent  who spoke  to Mr L misadvised him and said that the qualifying  period had 
renewed in April 2018, on the anniversary of his account being  initially opened. The agent  
then advised Mr L that his spend  so far since April (which the agent wrongly believed to be 
the current period)  had been  just under  £7000. The agent therefore advised  Mr L that he 
would soon reach the target spend and would receive another CUV shortly  after his next 
statement date. 
Mr L then made a purchase for nearly £5000 using his card in early  August 2018.
Mr L did not receive another CUV and contacted Lloyds to chase up. 
He was then advised that the renewal  date for his transactions to qualify for the next period 
was in late August.  This meant that the early August 2018 transaction  had not added  to his 
new years transactions.  
Mr L complained to Lloyds. He set out in his complaint that he had expected to be able to 
use the second CUV in booking his honeymoon and was not able to do so. He therefore  
wanted a CUV to be issued to him in apology for his being misadvised in July 2018.  
Lloyds sent his its final response in mid September 2018. It acknowledged that Mr L had 
been misadvised  but confirmed  that his qualifying year ran from August to August. It 
declined to provide him with an additional CUV, but offered compensation for his distress  
and inconvenience  of £150. 
Mr L was not happy  with this and approached us. He felt that by wrongly advising him Lloyds 
had encouraged him to use the Lloyds  card for his purchase in early  August, when  had he 
known that his spending target would be unaffected he would have used a different  card with 
another provider.  He felt that the difference in flight value was between  £1500 and £2000 
and felt that his time spent on the complaint  should be compensated at around £750.
Ref: DRN10706962One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that Lloyds had mismanaged Mr Ls expectations and had caused him disappointment.  
He felt that an appropriate level of compensation was £250 to reflect  Mr Ls distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Mr L rejected that view,  and asked for an ombudsman decision. Consequently  Lloyds 
declined to increase its offer from its existing offer of £150. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular  listened to Mr Ls call to the business in late July 2018, and have 
reviewed Mr Ls statements in the period up to late August 2018. 
There is no dispute that Mr L was wrongly advised  when he called in July 2018,  and that the 
agent got the date wrong for when Mr Ls next CUV  period  would begin.  I agree that Lloyds 
mismanaged his expectations. 
In July, Mr L was advised  that he had spent nearly £7000  since  the previous April and so 
understood that meant he would achieve another CUV soon, with minimal additional 
spending. 
I appreciate Mr Ls upset at subsequently learning that the spending  from April to July would 
not count towards  another CUV period, but I do not think  that this affected his spending 
behaviour significantly  in August 2018.  If Mr L had relied entirely on the agents advice in 
order to determine  his spending,  he would  only have needed to spend  around £85 to reach 
the total, not the nearly £5000 he spent in early  August. 
Mr Ls CUV qualifying period then renewed in late August, and by the time he contacted us 
in early 2019 he had achieved the spending  target and earned another  CUV. I appreciate  
that this was too late for his intended use, but the renewal date would have been the same in 
any event and I do not consider that he has lost out on a CUV  due to the wrong  information  
being given. He was only ever entitled to one CUV in each 12 month period, and has 
achieved a CUV in both periods whilst he has held the card. 
In terms of compensation, therefore, I think that Lloydss mistake allowed Mr L to wrongly 
believe he would be able to earn another CUV in time to use it for his honeymoon, and he 
was disappointed when he learned  that was wrong. I think  Lloyds offer of £150  is in line with 
awards we would make for similar circumstances,  and is in my view reasonable. 
Mr L has indicated that he feels his time should  be reflected in the compensation as his work 
billing time is at a high rate. We do not make  awards  to compensate  time spent in making  a 
complaint, and to do so would be unfair  and unreasonable.  
As a result, I uphold Mr Ls complaint, but think that Lloyds has made a reasonable offer of 
compensation. I do not ask it to do anything further.  
I understand that Mr L will be disappointed by this decision, but hope that my reasons are 
clear. 
Ref: DRN10706963my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint but think that Lloyds Bank  PLC has 
made a reasonable offer of compensation. I do not ask it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1070696