K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society  didnt  pay her £100  as part of an 
incentive when  she got a family member to switch their current  account to the society. Mrs B 
wants Nationwide to pay her the £100 together with £50 compensation for her distress, time 
and inconvenience.  
background
Mrs B has a current  account with Nationwide. She could see the society  was running a 
Recommend a Friend incentive. This scheme would reward  a person for getting someone  to 
switch their current account to Nationwide. Both Mrs B and the person she was 
recommending could get £100 each if that person switched a current account to Nationwide 
within a set time scale. 
In mid-2018, Mrs B started this process when she recommended a family member to 
Nationwide. But when  the family  member  didnt complete the account switch in time, 
Nationwide refused to pay Mrs B the £100 she was expecting. 
Mrs B complained to Nationwide. It rejected  her complaint. In brief, Nationwide said the full 
account switch  needed to have happened within 90 days  of the recommendation and this 
hadnt happened.
Mrs B brought her complaint to our service  where  it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think it should be upheld.  Again in brief, our investigator said the full 
switch hadnt happened within the time frame set out in the terms and conditions of the 
incentive. 
Mrs B didnt accept this. She said wed missed the crux of her complaint. Mrs B told us 
Nationwide had given  her family member incorrect information. It was this that caused  the 
deadline to be missed and for them to miss out on £100 each. As Mrs B didnt accept the 
investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First, I would point out that Im very aware  that Mrs Bs family member  has also brought  a 
complaint to us about this issue. Weve dealt  with this totally separately.  I want  to make it 
clear that my decision  relates  solely to Mrs B and how Nationwide has dealt with her. I wont  
be commenting at all on how Nationwide dealt  with Mrs Bs family member. 
The decision  I have to make is: did Nationwide treat Mrs B fairly  and reasonably  when it 
refused to pay her £100 under its Recommend a Friend scheme? Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of the incentive.  These  clearly  state  the full account switch must be 
completed within 90 days after the start date shown on the recommendation form. 
I can see the start date on the recommendation form was 10 July 2018.  But the full account 
switch didnt complete  until 17 October 2018.  This was 99 days after the start date, which 
was outside the deadline specified by the incentive terms and conditions. Based on this, Im 
Ref: DRN16179922satisfied it was fair and reasonable  for Nationwide to refuse to pay the £100 incentive to 
Mrs B as she hadnt met the terms and conditions. 
I know Mrs B feels very strongly  that the failure to comply  with the incentive terms and 
conditions were caused by Nationwide providing poor service to her family member, and 
giving that person incorrect information.  
But as Ive already said,  our service has dealt with that complaint separately.  One of my 
fellow ombudsmen has already issued a decision that covered those issues   and as above, 
Im not commenting on them further.  So, in all the circumstances here, theres no basis  for 
me to direct Nationwide  to pay either  the incentive amount or any compensation to Mrs B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1617992