K822xcomplaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) handled  her 
request to settle  an outstanding debt.
background 
Mrs S has two outstanding credit  card debts that were assigned  to Link. 
After a significant drop in her income, she offered Link £1,000 in full and final settlement of 
the debts but it declined  this offer. She then attempted  to negotiate a repayment plan with 
Link but this was also rejected because Link wasnt satisfied that the information  shed given  
on an Income and Expenditure  questionnaire  was accurate. 
She spoke  with a representative of Link who told her: 
Weve run a check with your credit file and its actually  showing that you do actually 
have an income every  month so unless youre able to provide proof that you dont 
have an income, we wouldnt be able to accept  the payment plan youve offered us 
. It doesnt disclose  the amount, but obviously it does  show  you do have a regular 
income 
 
Mrs S told us that she was alarmed  by this conversation because it led her to believe that 
Link had access to detailed information on her current  account.  This concern was magnified 
when she contacted one of the major credit reference agencies who told her that it wouldnt 
have provided  Link with such detailed information. 
In subsequent phone calls, Link was able to explain the reality  of the situation  its able to 
carry out income verification checks but these  dont allow its employees to see detailed  
information about customer accounts.
She was unhappy  that shed not been  given accurate  information  by Link and so complained  
to this service. The case  was looked at by an investigator who agreed with Mrs S that Link 
shouldve been  clearer in its explanation  and that this had caused her some  distress and 
inconvenience. 
The investigator recommended  that Link pay her £100 in compensation. Link agreed with the 
investigators recommendation and the complaint was closed. Mrs S contacted the 
investigator a few months later and said that Link hadnt paid her the settlement. Because  
the issue remained unresolved, the complaint was referred to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN13956502The explanation given during the initial phone call wasnt entirely clear and it evidently 
resulted in distress  for Mrs S. It also led to her contacting various third parties (such as credit 
reference agencies) to verify how much information regarding  her personal finances was 
accessible to Link. For the impact this had on her, I think £100 represents an appropriate 
level of compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Mrs S is also unhappy that Link declined her offer to settle her outstanding debts without 
giving an explanation. I can understand why Mrs S must be frustrated that it hasnt explained 
its reasons but strictly speaking it doesnt  have  any obligation to do so. I also dont find it 
unreasonable for it to decline an offer of £1,000 in full and final settlement of a total debt in 
excess of £8,000. 
It does have a formal obligation  to treat customers in financial difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration so if Mrs S is struggling to afford her repayments,  she should raise  
this with Link directly. If it doesnt respond or she thinks it hasnt considered to her 
circumstances fairly,  she can bring the issue to this service as a separate  complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.
Link Financial Outsourcing Limited  needs to pay Mrs S £100  without delay. It will need  to 
add 8% simple interest per annum on that sum calculated  to run from 1 February  2019  until 
the date the payment is made. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1395650