K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained that Europaische  Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) unfairly 
declined a claim they made under  a travel insurance policy.
All references to ERV include their claims handlers, who Mr and Mrs E have  dealt with 
during the course of their claim and complaint.
background
On 3 October 2018 Mr and Mrs E booked a holiday cottage in the UK through  a website 
owned by a business Ill call S. Mr and Mrs E purchased a single trip travel insurance  policy  
covering the holiday at the same time through the website.  The trip was due to start on 
6 October 2018. 
On 4 October 2018 Mr and Mrs E cancelled the trip after Mrs E became unwell during the 
night. So, a claim was submitted  under  the insurance to recover the cost of the cottage.  
Mr and Mrs E were  required  to provide a medical certificate from Mrs Es doctor  (GP) in 
support of the claim,  which they had to pay for.
ERV declined the claim. This was because  the medical certificate completed by Mrs Es GP 
showed the reason for cancellation was due to a flare up of anxiety, which Mrs E had had 
since 2010. ERV said in order to be covered for anxiety,  Mrs E needed to have  had written  
confirmation from a mental health  professional that she was fit to take the trip. The GP 
confirmed Mrs E didnt have this confirmation.
Mr and Mrs E complained. They said S didnt make them aware of these terms. They  also 
commented that it wouldve been  impossible  for Mrs E to have  obtained written  confirmation 
before cancelling or taking the trip due to the timings involved.
ERV didnt change  its decision. It said any concerns Mr and Mrs E had about the information 
provided at the point  of sale should  be directed to the business that sold them  the policy.
Mr and Mrs E referred their complaint to our service but the investigator didnt uphold it. She 
thought ERV had applied  the terms fairly and explained she couldnt  consider the issues 
raised about the information provided at the point  of sale as the policy wasnt  sold by ERV.
Mr and Mrs E didnt  accept the investigators findings so the complaint  was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs E, so Id like to explain why.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Es policy  say:
HEALTH CONDITIONS
Ref: DRN15880472You must be able to comply with the following conditions  to have the full protection  of your 
policy. If you do not comply we may refuse  to deal with any relevant claim or reduce the 
amount of any relevant claim payment.
If you are travelling within the United Kingdom
You are not required to declare your medical  conditions. However,  to be covered for any 
medical conditions  you have or have had, you must be able to answer NO to questions 1. to 
4. and YES to questions 5. and 6. a) and b) below:

5.If you are on prescribed  medication,  are your medical condition(s) stable and well 
controlled.
6.If you suffer from stress, anxiety, depression or any other mental or nervous disorder, 
have you received written confirmation (at your cost) that you are fit enough to take 
this trip by either:
a)a registered  mental  health professional (if you are under the care of a Community 
Mental Health Team),  or
b)a consultant specialising in the relevant field.
According to the medical certificate completed by Mrs Es GP, it was a flare up in Mrs Es 
anxiety that caused them to cancel  their trip. So, in light of the terms, Mrs E needed  to have 
written confirmation from a mental  health professional or consultant  specialist that she was 
fit enough to take the trip in order to be covered for things like cancellation.
Mrs E has said it wouldve been impossible for her to comply with the above  terms given  the 
short time between  booking the trip and starting it. But, I still think she couldve provided this 
evidence after the event if it was available to her. It seems to me that the main reason for the 
claim being declined  is that Mrs E isnt actually under the care of a mental health 
professional or specialist  for her anxiety  according  to the medical certificate,  the last time 
she had symptoms was in February 2017.  So, it wouldve always  been difficult for her to 
obtain such written confirmation  in order to comply with the terms. I know  Mrs E finds the 
terms unfair, but ERV is entitled to decide  the circumstances  under which it will cover 
existing medical conditions. And I think these terms were clearly  described in the policy 
document.
I know Mrs Es GP has confirmed she was fit enough to travel when the trip was booked, but 
that isnt sufficient under the terms of the policy. I fully appreciate  Mr and Mrs Es frustration 
that their claim isnt covered. But I dont think ERV has declined  the claim unfairly.
I realise this could lead Mr and Mrs E to question whether this policy was ever right for them. 
But as the investigator explained, the seller of the policy  is responsible for providing 
sufficient information  about how the policy works.  Mr and Mrs E purchased  the policy 
through S, which is a representative  of another business Ill call C. So, any concerns they 
have about the sale should  be referred to C.
I understand the investigator has directed Mr and Mrs Es concerns about the sale to C on 
their behalf.  If Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with Cs response, they can ask our service to 
consider their complaint as a separate issue.
Ref: DRN15880473my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1588047