K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy to cover a mortgage in 2000. They  paid a monthly  
amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because:
I think its likely that Santander made  Mr and Mrs H aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and they chose to take it. This is because I think  they wouldve had to 
complete a separate application form for the PPI  either  on paper or over the phone. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs H dont remember doing  this, but I think  thats  
understandable given  it was almost 20 years ago. 
Santander most  likely recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, and it seems to have 
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. While 
they had some  sick pay and savings the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of this for up to 12 
months if one of them had been unable to work. This wouldve left any sick pay and 
savings available for other things, ensuring they didnt fall behind  with their mortgage  
repayments and risk losing their home.  
I think Santander  couldve  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs H would still have bought it. 
Its possible that Santander didnt point  out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr and Mrs H dont appear to have been  affected  by any of those things. 
Ive thought about whether  the regulators rules on high levels of commission  and profit  
share apply to this complaint. Its unclear what if any mortgage  the PPI was taken out 
alongside. This is because Santander  holds no records of Mr and Mrs H having a 
mortgage with them prior to 2002   which is two years after the PPI started. While its 
likely there was a mortgage  with Santander  (or one of the companies it later took over)  
before this, its clear  that it didnt run beyond 2002. So I think its understandable that 
Santander no longer has records of this. The regulators rules on high levels of 
commission and profit share would only apply in this case  if the mortgage the PPI was 
taken out alongside  was still running  on 6 April 2008.  So I dont think  those rules apply 
to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN12019342Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments. But these points dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1201934