K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Welcome Financial Services Limited (Welcome) mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  with a loan.
background
In 2004 Mr O took out a loan during a meeting. At the same  time he also took out PPI 
designed to protect  his loan payments in the event  he couldnt work due to accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
The policy was a single premium policy, so the cost was paid upfront by adding it to the loan 
thereby attracting interest.  The upfront cost was around £685.
Mr Os loan had a term of three  years, but he repaid it early. The account closed in 2006.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019. I said here I was minded to disagree with the 
adjudicators conclusions and that I intended  to not uphold this complaint. In summary I 
made the following provisional findings:
this was, on balance,  an advised  sale where  Welcome recommended  PPI to Mr O.
Mr O ought  reasonably to have  understood that he was buying  PPI and that he agreed to 
take it out  the loan agreement described PPI as being optional and he signed 
separate paperwork to agree to take it out.
the available evidence doesnt show that Welcome took all of the required steps to 
ensure PPI was suitable for Mr O. 
but that in any event  it was ultimately  suitable  for him because:
oMr O was likely mistaken about the length of time hed been with his employer   
the evidence from the time (a verification  section of the loan application 
completed by a Welcome  staff member)  records hed been there for 12 months 
and not five months as he said, so there was nothing about his employment 
circumstances which made the policy unsuitable.
ohe was in good health, so he wasnt caught  by the policy  exclusion for existing 
medical conditions.
ohe had a need for cover given his limited  existing means, so it would have been 
useful to him if something went  wrong.
othe limited refund  terms wouldnt have likely impacted Mr O because there was 
nothing to indicate he intended  to repay  the loan early.
othe policy was affordable  for him.
Welcome might  not have given  Mr O all of the information he needed about the policy  in 
a clear and timely way, but given it was suitable  for him there  was nothing to indicate 
hed have been put off taking it out if Welcome had done anything  more.
because of the above, I didnt think Mr O had lost out as a result  of taking out PPI and so 
I didnt intend  on making any award.
Both Welcome and Mr O  through his representative   said theyd received my provisional 
decision. And both parties said they had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12987082Given that neither  party  says they have anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my reasoning and conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1298708