K822xcomplaint
Miss W complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc provided her with poor service when she 
made a claim on her motor insurance  policy and that there  were  significant delays in 
finalising it. Miss W is represented  by her partner, Mr S.
 
background 
AXA was informed that Miss Ws car had been  damaged by another vehicle whilst it was 
parked and unattended on 21 December 2018.  Several  attempts  were  made to repair  it. 
Miss W was in temporary accommodation,  with no parking space for the car. So in February  
2019 - and again in April 2019 - she drove the car some distance  to a family members  home 
for safe storage, with a view to selling it. On both trips the car proved  to need further repair.  
An independent engineer  said extra work needed to be carried  out on the car in March / April 
2019. AXA decided  to write  the car off in May 2019. 
Mr S said given the cost of repairing the damage, the car should have been written-off 
straight away, saving Miss W a great deal of inconvenience, stress and cost.  He said Miss W 
had run up expenses  such  as tax and insurance  on the car, whilst it couldnt be used, as well 
as the cost of petrol in driving  the car to the family  members home. He said AXA should  
reimburse Miss W for her expenses and pay compensation for distress and inconvenience.
One of our investigators  looked at Miss Ws complaint. She noted  that AXA had declared the 
car a total loss, despite still thinking it was repairable. She didnt think  it should have been  
written-off initially, as Mr S had suggested, as AXAs engineer had explained  that it was 
below the total loss threshold. She thought AXA should pay for the petrol  used on trips to 
Miss Ws parents home. Miss W had replaced the cars brake  pads and discs  at AXAs  
request, to rule them out as a possible cause  of noise. The investigator thought  AXA should 
refund the cost of that. She didnt think Miss Ws other  expenses  - such as tax and insurance 
- should  be paid for, as Miss W would have had to pay those costs anyway. She thought  
£300 was enough to compensate Miss W for AXAs poor communication  and delays.  
AXA agreed to the proposed settlement  with a query about  the cost of petrol. Mr S then 
provided evidence  that Miss W had intended  to sell the car from December 2018 as there 
was no longer a space  or parking permit for it. He said AXA had therefore  caused Miss W 
five months extra  expense on the car. And he said £300 compensation was too low.        
The investigator thought Miss W may have been able to sell the car by February 2019, but 
having checked the valuations in the national  trade  guides, she said the highest she could 
possibly have got for it was over £400  less than AXA had paid her for the car. She thought 
that sum would cover  any extra  car-related  expenses shed paid.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Miss W and Mr S thought the car should have been written-of  at the start. 
Normally insurers  tend to write them off if the cost of repairs is likely to be more than 60% of 
Ref: DRN19682752the cars  value  and here,  it was much higher than that. But AXAs  engineer has told us that 
as this was a non-fault claim, AXA would have repaired  the car for a cost up to its market  
value. I think AXA was entitled to do that.
The claims notes show that AXA still thought  the car was repairable  in May 2019, but it 
agreed to write it off as Mr S said that was Miss Ws preferred  option.  I think it was of benefit 
to Miss W that the car was written-off,  when AXA could have insisted on further repairs.  And 
I think the sum it paid Miss W for the car was well over its market value. 
I agree  with the investigator that the extra sum AXA paid for the car cancels out any extra 
costs that may have  been paid on it, given  that it might have been sold prior to May 2019. 
But I dont think five months extra costs accrued due to AXA. The original reason for Miss W 
not being able to put the car on sale at the end of December 2018 was the accident. Had all 
gone well, as parts had to be ordered,  its likely to have been mid February  2019  before the 
car was ready to be put on sale. Its unlikely to have sold straight  away. So I think the delay  
in selling it that mightve been caused  by AXA is likely to have been two months or so.  
AXA has agreed to refund the cost of the rear brake pads and discs to Miss W, with interest. 
It has also agreed to pay her £300  for distress  and inconvenience. AXA has accepted that 
the service it provided was below an acceptable standard, especially in relation to contact 
with her and delays in the repair process. I think £300 is reasonable compensation for that, 
taking everything into account, so I wont  be requiring  AXA to increase it.
I think AXA should reimburse Miss W for the petrol she used  that wouldnt otherwise have 
been used. Had all gone well, in February  2019  Miss W would have driven to her family 
members home with the car. Mr S would have done the journey in his car, and they would  
have travelled back together. So I dont think AXA can be asked to pay for the petrol used on 
those three  trips. Miss Ws car was brought  back by the garage. Miss W wouldnt have had 
to make the same trip again with the car In April 2019 but for the poor second repairs.  So I 
think AXA should pay for the petrol used on the trips made  that month by Miss Ws car in 
one direction and by Mr Ss car on the round trip.
Miss W and Mr A cant  show exactly how much petrol was used  on those three journeys, so 
an approximate cost will have to be calculated. I think  it would be reasonable for AXA to 
work out the cost of driving between Miss Ws home and her family members  home based 
on the mileage for three trips and the average cost of petrol  per mile in the UK - plus interest.    
my final decision
My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should settle  this claim as follows,  as its 
already agreed  to do:
Refund the cost of the brake pads and discs to Miss W.
Refund the approximate cost of the petrol used, by calculating it as set out above
Add interest to the cost of the brake pads / discs refund, and to the refund of petrol, 
at the simple rate of 8%, from the date each item was purchased to the date of 
settlement
Pay Miss W £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
If AXA thinks its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income  tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss W how much  its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN19682753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1968275