K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says she wasnt covered for a problem  with her car when she should have been, as 
she had been  paying for breakdown cover as part of a warranty provided by AWP 
Assistance UK Ltd, trading as Volkswagen Approved Warranty  Administration Services  
(AWP). Mrs S wants AWP to refund all the premiums  shes paid.
background
Mrs S has a warranty  package for her car, which includes breakdown  cover.
In late 2018, Mrs S was told by a passer-by that she had a flat tyre. She was near her sons  
new home, so she took her car there, and then contacted  the breakdown service to get it to 
come out and fix her tyre.
The breakdown service said it couldnt  find an active account for Mrs S, despite her being 
able to provide  details  and reference  numbers from when the warranty  had been  renewed 
over several years. It said that, as it was a Sunday, it couldnt  ask its administration  team to 
see if it could help.  The breakdown service went on to say that it could come out to fix the 
tyre, but Mrs S would  have to pay £188.  Mrs S didnt want to do that, so her son contacted  
the company that provided his breakdown  cover   which agreed to fix the tyre without 
charge.
Mrs S complained to AWP about what had happened, and AWP said it was very sorry, but 
that although it had been receiving Mrs Ss regular  payments, a system error meant her 
warranty/breakdown account wasnt shown as active. It said it had now put that right, and to 
make up for the inconvenience and the upset of not getting help when needed it would pay 
her £100  compensation.
Mrs S says that isnt enough and she wants all the premiums shes ever paid  just under 
£1,500 back, with interest, as she thinks she hasnt  been covered  at all.
AWP doesnt want to do that, so Mrs S brought her complaint  to us.
Our investigator thought the offer was fair. He thought Mrs S had been covered  she had 
the relevant paperwork  to show this, even if the administration issues  didnt come to light 
until she needed to use the breakdown cover. He said he understood Mrs Ss son was upset 
by what happened  but could only look at Mrs Ss circumstances, as the warranty  was in her 
name.
Mrs S remains unhappy about  this so Ive been  asked  to decide this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint, because I think AWP has dealt with Mrs Ss complaint 
fairly. I realise this will disappoint Mrs S, so Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
AWP has acknowledged it made a mistake  on Mrs Ss account. Its put that right by updating 
the account and marking it as active  so there shouldnt be any issues of this sort going 
forwards. Thats what Id expect a business  to do once it knew it had made  mistakes.
Ref: DRN15526472Mrs S also says she doesnt think her warranty package has ever been in place  so she 
hasnt been covered over the years  shes been  paying for it. I dont think  thats the case,  
given that she has the relevant paperwork,  and the system error was found and rectified 
when Mrs S did need to use the breakdown service.
The remaining  issue  is whether  £100  is enough  compensation.  I think it is. I understand that 
Mrs S says she might have been in a much  more difficult position  her example was broken 
down on the hard shoulder of a motorway  so she should get more compensation. But I can 
only look at what actually  happened  I cant consider hypothetical circumstances. That 
means I can only ask AWP to compensate Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience she 
actually suffered. And from what Ive seen, that was the inconvenience  of having to use her 
sons cover  (free of charge) and not being  sure she was covered until the next day. 
I think £100 is reasonable compensation for that, so Im not going to ask AWP to increase its 
offer. Ill leave it with Mrs S to decide if she wants  to accept  the offer, if she hadnt  already 
done that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1552647