K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains as a director of R, a limited company, that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
hasnt provided  him with account details in order to pursue a civil claim following a scam.
Background
R received emails with invoice details which it thought its suppliers had sent. There was 
nothing unusual about the invoices  or the timing of them, so an administrator of R paid them 
online using  business internet banking.  The payments are set out in the table below. 
Date Amount Receiving account
24/12/18 £5,000 Bank A, account 1
27/12/18 £15,000 Bank A, account 1
28/12/18 £15,000 Bank A, account 1
04/01/19 £9,000 Bank B
07/01/19 £12.000 Bank A, account 1
07/01/19 £13,000 Bank A, account 2
08/01/19 £13,000 Bank A, account 2
08/01/19 £6,000 Bank A, account 2
08/01/19 £5,500 Bank A, account 3
The administrator later found out from the genuine  suppliers that the emails werent from 
them. On 8 January  2019 at 12.20 the administrator contacted HSBC to report the scam. 
This call was followed by a call from Mr P at 12.29. HSBC contacted banks A and B on the 
same day. Bank A said some funds  remained, but it would  need HSBC to provide an 
indemnity. Bank B confirmed that funds remained and returned  them  to R on 7 February 
2019. 
Mr P initially  said there were multiple  payments which were  unusual and should have been 
stopped by HSBC. He felt this was particularly so as they were  made  over the Christmas 
and new year shut down period.  
On 8 April 2019  Mr P wrote to HSBC and requested that it provide him with all relevant 
information, including the name and address of the account holder  at bank A in accordance 
with Regs 90(3) and 90(4) of the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) 2017. He explained 
that he needed these details to pursue a civil claim against the account holder for the 
amounts outstanding. Mr P also referred to paragraphs 8.292  to 8.296 of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  (FCA)  Payment  Services and Electronic Money - Our Approach 
(December 2018) guidelines.
In a subsequent letter Mr P set out regulation 90(4) and the relevant sections of the FCA 
guidelines as follows:
"(4) If the payers payment service provider  is unable to recover the funds it must, on receipt 
of a written request,  provide to the payer all available relevant information in order  for the 
payer to claim repayment of the funds.
Ref: DRN18591712And:
" 8.294  We would  expect the relevant  information provided pursuant  to regulations 90(3) 
and (4) of the PSRs  2017 to include the payees name and an address at which  
documents can be effectively served on that person.
Mr P has focused his complaint on the fact that HSBC hasnt provided him with the 
information he has requested, rather than on its decision not to refund him. 
In its final response letter  HSBC said it contacted bank A and bank B on the day the scam 
was reported.  Both banks  said some funds remained. On 19 January 2019 bank A returned  
the £12,000 payment and on 7 February 2019  bank  B returned  £5,960.05. HSBC noted that 
bank A advised  it some  funds remained but that although it had chased on a number of 
occasions bank  A hadnt responded. Given this, HSBC said it couldnt  confirm if funds would 
be returned or when.  HSBC also said it couldnt  provide Mr P with the account holder details 
hed requested as the information wasnt held by HSBC and HSBC had no access to it. 
HSBC advised  Mr P to contact banks A and B directly. 
Mr P says that had HSBC  responded to his request sooner hed have had a greater chance 
of recovering the funds R lost. The total loss is set out below:
Account Loss Recovered Amount outstanding
Bank A account 1 £47,000 £12,000 £35,000
Bank A account 2 £32,000 £13,000 £19,000
Bank A account 3 £5,500* £5,433 £67
Bank B £9,000 £5,960.05 £3,039.95
Total £57,106.95
* Mr P says there were two payments of £5,500  on 8 January 2019 but his statements and 
other records provided by HSBC only show one payment on this date.
Mr P received the payments of £13,000 and £5,433  on 25 February 2020 following contact 
he had with bank  A. 
The investigation so far
The investigator said HSBC acted reasonably in processing the payments. She said this 
because she didnt  consider they were unusual or suspicious in appearance given Rs 
normal account and payment activity. In the period  before  the scam, R had made large 
payments to different payees, including  four payments of around £25,000 in October  and 
November 2018.  R had also spread large  payments to the same payee over several days  
as it had in the scam. And business  accounts operate  differently to normal current  accounts, 
meaning that balances can fluctuate much more. The scam  transactions  in this case  didnt 
significantly reduce  the overall balance as payments in to the account increased. 
In terms of recovery, the investigator noted  HSBC contacted  both banks on the same  day 
the scam  was reported. Bank  A told HSBC that funds remained, but it would need an 
indemnity to release them. The investigator tried to contact bank A about  these funds but 
didnt get a reply, but she noted that funds had been  returned to Rs account (as set out 
Ref: DRN18591713above). Bank B noted that most of the funds were removed immediately but some funds 
remained and had been returned.
Turning to Mr Ps request  to be provided with account holder details for accounts held with 
banks A and B into which R had transferred funds, the investigator set out Regs 90(2)  and 
90(4) of the PSRs 2017. She noted HSBCs  duty to make reasonable efforts  to recover 
Mr Ps funds  which included, on receipt of a written request, asking for relevant information 
from the payees banks and sharing it if provided. As Mr P had provided a written request the 
investigator asked HSBC to request account holder  details from banks A and B and to share  
any information received with Mr P, unless there were legitimate reasons not to do so. 
Finally, the investigator  said that if the payee  banks dont provide HSBC  with the relevant 
information there was nothing  else it could  reasonably be expected to do. 
In his response to the investigators  opinion  Mr P again focused on the disclosure of 
information to him. He referred to the fact the investigator said that although  HSBC  should 
ask the payees banks  for account  holder  information there was no guarantee the banks 
would comply, and they may be reluctant to disclose the information  in which  case  there  
was nothing more  HSBC could reasonably do. Mr P said the investigator hadnt considered 
Regulation 90(3) of the PSRs 2017, which say,
The payees payment  service provider must co-operate  with the payers  payment service  
provider in its efforts to recover  the funds, in particular  by providing to the payers payment 
service provider all relevant information for the collection of funds.
Mr P concluded that it wasnt the case that HSBC  should ask for the account holder 
information, but that it has a regulatory responsibility to do so and this service should clearly  
advise HSBC of its obligations.  Mr P went on to say that the payees  bank must also co-
operate and so this service should  write  to bank A and B to remind them of their obligations 
and report them to the FCA if no response is received. 
HSBC hasnt provided any comments but has recently  supplied  evidence of correspondence 
with bank A in which it asked for account holder information/details and specifically referred 
to the name of the account holder. HSBC has chased bank A but hasnt received a 
response. I understand HSBC has also approached bank B and received a response, but 
Ive not seen the request  or the reply. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
Ref: DRN18591714various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I appreciate that Mr Ps main complaint relates  to the provision of account holder 
information, but Ive still considered whether HSBC acted fairly  and reasonably in its 
dealings with him when the payments from Rs account were authorised. Having considered  
Rs statements for the nine-month period before the scam  transactions  I agree with the 
investigator that they werent unusual or out of character, and for broadly the same reasons. 
In the three months before the scam transactions R made seven payments of over £20,000. 
Most of those payments were to one company, with multiple payments being  made  over a 
few days. There were also many other payments to different payees of amounts similar  to 
the scam  payments, including two payments in November 2018 for around £11,000. So I 
cant see that the scam transactions would stand out as being unusual  or suspicious. I dont 
consider the timing of the payments was a cause for concern either  HSBC  couldnt be 
expected to know when R was closed  over the Christmas period. 
Recovery
Banks should make reasonable  efforts to recover a customers  funds  following  a scam. 
Once HSBC was made aware of the scam it contacted both receiving banks  (banks A and B) 
promptly in an effort to recover any funds  that remained. In a telephone call at 13.43 on the 
day the scam was reported bank A told HSBC that some funds remained, and it would 
secure those funds. In respect of account 1 the £12,000 payment made on 7 January 2019 
was stopped and returned directly to R. Some funds  remained in account 2 and bank A 
asked HSBC to provide  an indemnity.   HSBC  said it didnt think it could  do this and asked if it 
was possible to just send the funds.  Bank  A agreed to raise the query with its compliance 
team. Some  of the payment  to account 3 also remained  and bank A said it would include this 
when it contacted its compliance team.  
HSBC made  further email  contact with bank A in relation to the recovery  of funds on 17 
January, 6 February and 13 February  2019.  On 13 February 2019 bank A replied 
apologising for the delay  and noting that funds remained  in accounts 2 and 3. Bank A again 
asked for an indemnity and also raised a query  in respect of the account number for account  
3 which  HSBC responded to. After further  contact from HSBC bank A repeated its request 
for an indemnity for accounts 2 and 3. HSBC  confirmed on 1 March 2019  that it couldnt  
send an indemnity and asked bank  A to simply return the funds. HSBC didnt receive a reply. 
I understand that Mr P contacted bank A himself and received £18,433 in February  2020.
Having carefully considered HSBCs  actions Im satisfied it took reasonable steps  to recover  
Mr Ps funds.  HSBC contacted the receiving banks  in a reasonable timeframe.  It completed  
the usual Authorised  Push Payment (APP)  notification form to request the return  of Mr Ps 
Ref: DRN18591715funds and in doing so followed the UK Finance Authorised Push Payment (APP) Voluntary 
Best Practice Standards.  HSBC also chased bank  A more than once. Although bank A 
repeatedly asked HSBC  to provide  an indemnity, best practice  standards  do not mention 
indemnities. So whilst I understand Mr Ps frustration  I cant say HSBC  acted unreasonably 
in not providing  an indemnity to bank  A. 
Provision of account details
In April 2019, Mr P on behalf  of R made  a clear  written request  for account holder 
information to enable him to pursue civil action to recover  funds from the beneficiary account  
holders. His request referred to the PSRs which he relied on in making the request  and to 
FCA guidance that applied at the time. So whilst I understand HSBC had some concerns  
around data protection I dont consider it did enough in saying that as it didnt hold the 
information it couldnt supply it and in referring  Mr P to bank  A and B. 
Regs 90(2) and 90(4) of the PSRs 2017 say that:
(2) Where the unique  identifier  provided by the payment service user is incorrect,  the 
payment service provider is not liable under regulation 91 or 92 for non-execution  or 
defective execution of the payment transaction, but the payment service provider
(a) must  make  reasonable efforts to recover the funds involved in the payment 
transaction; and
(b) may,  if agreed in the framework  contract, charge the payment service  user 
for any such recovery.
(4) If the payers payment service provider  is unable to recover  the funds it must, on receipt 
of a written request,  provide to the payer all available relevant information in order  for the 
payer to claim repayment of the funds.
So in the circumstances of this complaint, as the payments R made  are considered  to have  
been made to incorrect unique  identifiers, HSBC  has a duty to request relevant information 
from the payees banks to enable R to claim repayment of the funds. The FCAs guidance 
paper Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  (June  2019  version)  
provides, 
8.302 If the payers PSP is unable to recover the funds and the customer  provides a written 
request, the PSP must, under regulation 90(4) of the PSRs 2017, provide  to the customer all 
available relevant information in order for the payer  to file a legal claim for repayment  of the 
funds. 
8.303 We would expect the relevant information provided pursuant to regulations 90(3)  and 
(4) of the PSRs 2017 to include the payees name  and an address at which  documents  can 
be effectively served  on that person. When providing information to its customers to ensure 
fair and transparent processing of personal  data (eg in a privacy  notice), as required by 
applicable data protection legislation, a PSP should take account  of its potential  obligations 
under regulations 90(3) and (4) of the PSRs 2017. 
So Im satisfied that HSBC should  have contacted banks A and B to ask for information to 
enable R to pursue  a civil claim when the request for this information  was initially  made  by 
Mr P in April 2019. HSBC only requested information in February  2021  after it received the 
Ref: DRN18591716investigators opinion.  And even  at this stage, from what  Ive seen, HSBC asked bank A for 
account holder  information/details and only specifically referred to the name  of the account  
holder, which  in my view doesnt go far enough.  I havent been provided with HSBCs 
contact with bank  B but think its likely HSBC asked it for the same information. Having 
carefully considered  all the circumstances of the complaint I think HSBC should approach 
banks A and B again to also seek the account holders addresses,  and if obtained (unless  
there is a legitimate reason  why HSBC cant share this information) should disclose this to R 
so that documents can effectively be served on the beneficiary. If either  bank A or B fails to 
provide HSBC with the information it has sought  or HSBC, upon receipt, decides its unable  
to share  this information  for legitimate reasons it should inform  R of this. 
I understand Mr P believes that if HSBC had tried to obtain account holder information in 
April 2019, hed have  had a greater chance  of recovering Rs lost funds. But this is 
speculative and Im unable to reasonably conclude HSBCs omission has led to a 
preventable loss. 
In response to the investigators opinion Mr P referred to Reg 90(3)  and expressed his 
opinion on the actions this service should  take because of this regulation. But this section 
refers to the obligations of the payees  payment service provider  in this case  banks  A and 
B. I cant consider the actions of these banks as part of this complaint against  HSBC. And in 
any event this service isnt the regulator  and wouldnt  look to punish  or fine financial 
businesses. I agree with the investigator that if banks A and B dont provide the information  
requested there is nothing  more HSBC can reasonably do, which I appreciate  may not be 
the answer Mr P was hoping for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should:
-Ask bank  A and bank B to provide account holder information to include at least  the 
account holders  name  and address.
-If bank A and bank  B provide this information,  HSBC should share it with R (unless 
there are legitimate reasons why they arent able to share  it). 
-If bank A and B do not provide this information or confirm  that for legitimate reasons 
they wont share it HSBC  should  notify  R of this fact.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1859171