K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed  his accounts. 
background
Mr P had two business accounts with Santander.
On 12 May 2018 £1,700 was paid into one of Mr Ps accounts. On 14 May 2018 Santander 
was contacted by another bank,  which I will refer to as bank B, who said their customer  
didnt authorise  the payment of £1,700 into Mr Ps account. And they had been the victim of 
a scam. Following this notification Santander blocked Mr Ps accounts. This meant Mr P 
wasnt able to access the funds in his accounts.
On 15 May 2018 Santander spoke to Mr P about  the £1,700 credit.  Mr P said the money had 
come from his father.  Santander  asked Mr P to provide proof  of his entitlement  to the money. 
And proof of his relationship to bank Bs customer. This was because  it had noticed Mr Ps 
surname was different  to bank Bs customer and Mr P had told Santander that his father was 
vulnerable. However,  Mr P didnt provide Santander with any evidence to show  he was 
entitled to the money. So on 23 May 2018, Santander returned the funds to bank B. And told 
Mr P he should contact bank B to sort things out. 
On 25 May 2018 Santander wrote to Mr P to let him know it had decided to close his 
accounts. And to let him know  he needed  to make alternative banking arrangements within  
60 days. 
Mr P has told us that his father authorised the £1,700 payment into his account. And that the 
money was going  to be used to pay for his fathers care in the future. He says his relative  
made a false allegation  to bank B that the transfer of £1,700 was fraudulent. And told the 
bank that Mr P was just a family friend  and not the son of bank Bs customer.  So hes not 
entitled to the money. Mr P says his relative  is actually the person taking advantage of his 
fathers vulnerabilities  and draining  his bank  accounts. So his father wanted to put the 
money into his account for safekeeping.
Mr P says Santander didnt give him an opportunity to provide an explanation about why his 
father had paid money into his account.  Hes said he made several phone calls to Santander 
to find out what  information  he needed  to provide to move things forward.  But was passed 
from pillar to post and kept on hold. Santander accepted it shouldve provided  Mr P with 
better service and paid him £175  compensation.  
Mr P accepted Santanders offer but was still upset Santander had closed his accounts and 
sent the money back to bank B. So he brought his complaint to us. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ps case. She said Santander acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it asked Mr P for more  information about  the payment  into his 
account. And it hadnt done anything wrong  when it closed Mr Ps accounts. So she didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed. So the complaint has come to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
Ref: DRN18519602Santander is required to have measures in place  to review payments. As part of its review 
process Santander are entitled to ask a customer for more information.  And its not for this 
service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any 
mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened.
Mr P says he is entitled to the money paid into his account. He says its money  which 
belongs to his father  that was paid into his account for safekeeping. Mr P says he hasnt 
done anything  wrong. And the allegations  against him are false. That may well be the case. 
And I appreciate that Mr P is upset.  But for me to uphold his complaint I have to think  the 
bank has done  something wrong.  And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Banks must  be able to talk to each other to protect their customers  when money  has been 
sent to the wrong account or they believe  fraud has taken place. And this is what  happened  
here. The other bank  told Santander the credit  of £1,700, to Mr Ps account  was fraudulent. 
So it returned the money to the other bank. Ive looked at the evidence which Santander  
relied on to return the money. Having done  so, I cant say Santander has done anything  
wrong. 
Mr P says Santander didnt give him an opportunity to explain things and put his side of the 
story across before it decided to send  the money  back to bank  B. But I dont agree. I say this 
because from looking at Santanders call notes I can see that Mr P had several phone 
conversations with Santander between  15 May and 23 May 2018.  During  these calls Mr P 
told Santander that the money had been  paid into his account  by his father. And he provided 
information about his fathers  circumstances including the alleged actions of his relative.  So I 
think Mr P was given more than one opportunity  to put his side of things across to 
Santander. 
Santander also wrote  to Mr P to let him know what it was doing. So I think  Santanders kept 
Mr P informed. And let him know what information  it needed from him. So Im satisfied  
Santander took appropriate  measures  to find a way forward  for him to be able to access the 
money remaining  in his bank account.  
Overall, having looked  at the evidence Im satisfied that Santander were acting in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing  Mr Ps account  and asking  him questions 
about the money in his account.  So I dont think its done anything wrong. 
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps accounts  confirm Santander  can close the account 
immediately in some circumstances and by providing Mr P 60 days  notice. I can see that 
Santander wrote to Mr P on 25 May 2018  to let him know that following a review  of his 
account, it had decided to close his accounts. I also note that Mr P asked Santander to 
Ref: DRN18519603review its decision to close  his accounts. And on 17 July 2018, Santander wrote to Mr P 
setting out the reasons it wasnt willing to reopen his accounts.  It also told Mr P that it had 
paid £175.00 into his account. So Im satisfied Santander complied with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts.
I appreciate that the closure of the accounts has caused Mr P inconvenience. But the bank 
can make  commercial decisions about  who it offers banking services to. They  cannot unfairly 
discriminate against  a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do business with 
individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide  who they want to 
contract with. And Im satisfied that Santander has exercised its commercial decision 
legitimately when it decided to close Mr Ps accounts. So I cannot fairly and reasonably say 
its done anything  wrong.
In summary,  whilst I acknowledge  Mr Ps frustrations with the situation  relating to his 
accounts. And that the accounts  being closed impacted on him. I dont  think Santander failed 
to properly follow its own procedures. So Im not going to ask Santander to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1851960