K820x#14complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the decision made  by AXA Insurance  UK Plc to decline cover  for
certain medical conditions  under some sections of her travel insurance policy - unless she
paid a higher premium  for those conditions  to be covered.
background
Ms T pays monthly  for a packaged bank account.  As part of that account, she gets a silver
annual travel insurance policy which is underwritten by AXA - which offers  European cover
as a standard feature.  However, policyholders  can pay an additional premium for certain
upgrades for things  like worldwide cover (including  the USA).
Ms T has a number of medical conditions but these were listed  in the policy as conditions
that dont require medical screening - and ones which Ms T didnt need to tell AXA about to
be covered under the policy.
For the year covering  29 June 2017 to 28 June 2018, Ms T paid an additional premium for
worldwide cover. As such  the policy doesnt  automatically renew and Ms T was required  to
contact AXA if she still wanted to upgrade her annual policy  when it expired at the end of
June 2018.
When she called AXA to renew that policy in mid-June 2018, she told AXAs
representative that shed recently had a polyp removed from her womb.  She was asked
questions about  that.
As a result of the answers given, Ms T was told that a womb  polyp is a condition that
requires medical  screening . So she would have  to pay an additional premium if she
wanted the policy to cover anything to do with the polyp  in her womb  as well as all of her
other conditions (which, because of the polyp, now required medical screening).
Alternatively, she was told she could renew the policy without paying an additional premium
for the medical  conditions - but she wouldnt be able to claim for anything connected to those
medical conditions  under certain sections of the policy  (including  sections covering 
emergency medical, additional accommodation  and travel costs, cancellation or cutting a
holiday short).
Ms Ts unhappy about that. She didnt think it was fair of AXA to screen her other medical 
conditions - and ask her to pay an additional premium if she wanted those conditions 
covered under the policy - because of the procedure shed had to remove the polyp.
Ultimately our investigator didnt uphold  Ms Ts complaint. Ms T didnt  agree and her 
complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh. I issued my provisional  decision 
on 11 February 2019 explaining why I was thinking of not upholding the complaint. But 
because my reasons  for doing so were a bit different  to our investigator,  I invited AXA and 
Ms T to provide me with any further information to consider by 25 February 2019. Ive 
received no reply from either party to this complaint. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
Ref: DRN10098522reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
When Ms T contacts AXA to renew  the policy, shes asked whether she has any holidays 
booked. Ms T confirms she doesnt.  AXAs representative then asks her questions  about 
whether shed received any treatment  or had taken any medication   for any health 
conditions over the past six months. Ms T talks about medication shed been  taking  for 
conditions which, under the policy, are deemed to be conditions that dont require medical  
screening.
Shes then asked if theres anything else and she talks about having a polyp removed from
her womb  the Thursday  before. A womb polyp is not on the list of conditions  which  dont
require screening  under the policy.
The policy says: if you have any medical conditions and they all appear in the list of no
screen conditions  then these will all be covered under the policy without the need  to
contact us.
It goes on to say: if however you have any medical  condition that is not in the list of no
screen conditions  then you must tell us about  all the conditions that you have including  those
on the list of no screen conditions and: if following a medical screening we do not provide
cover for the medical condition(s) that you (tell) us about we will not provide cover for any of
those medical conditions, even if one or more of them is a no screen condition - although
cover might be available  at an additional  premium.
The policy also says Ms T wont be covered under  certain  sections of the policy for any
claims arising directly or indirectly from any medical condition  she has, or has had, for which
she is taking medication or has received treatment for. The policy stipulates the timeframe to
be: within the six months prior to opening your silver account or within  six months prior to
booking any trip, whichever is later - and AXA has agreed to cover in writing.
But at the time of renewing the policy, its possible that Ms T wasnt  required to declare the
polyp that had been from her womb at the time of renewing the policy and shouldnt  have
been asked any further questions about this. I say that because:
- at the time Ms T called  to renew  her policy, Ms T confirmed that she didnt have a
holiday booked;  and
- although  Silver account isnt defined under the policy, having read through to the
terms of the policy, it looks like this refers to the underlying silver bank account that
Ms T has. And shed had that bank account  for a number of years.
So its possible that as all other medical  conditions  she had didnt require screening, she
shouldve been  allowed  to renew her upgraded policy to cover those particular conditions
without paying  an additional premium at that stage (although  of course  a separate,  additional
premium wouldve still been  payable for worldwide  cover).  But, ultimately, I dont need to 
make a finding about that.
Thats because even  if Ms T wasnt required to disclose any details of the womb polyp
during the call in mid-June  2018,  she wouldve been  required to declare that polyp  within a
few weeks of that phone call if she wanted  her other  conditions  to be covered under the
policy and she wouldve had to pay an additional premium then. Ms T has told me that shed
Ref: DRN10098523booked a holiday sometime  in late June / early July 2018 as she went away in Europe  in 
July 2018.
Thats within  six months from the date the polyp was removed. So, as it transpires, she 
wouldnt have been covered for anything connected  to all of her pre-existing medical 
conditions under certain parts of the policy for the holiday  she went on in July 2018 (or any 
other holiday that had been booked within six months of the polyp being  removed)   unless 
shed contacted AXA and paid an additional premium  for them  to be covered.
At that stage, it wouldve  been fair and reasonable for AXA to have screened the womb
polyp along with her other conditions included in the list of conditions not ordinarily requiring
medical screening. That wouldve been in line with the other policy  terms Ive referred to
above. And based on the information  AXA has given  us, I accept its likely to have resulted in
Ms T having to pay an additional premium at that stage - if she wanted all of her conditions
covered under certain  sections  of the policy.
So Ms T hasnt lost out because of what AXA mightve done wrong. Although  its likely she
wouldve paid an additional  premium  to renew  her worldwide cover if she hadnt been asked
further questions  about the polyp in mid-June 2018,  she wouldve had to pay a higher
premium to cover her pre-existing  medical conditions  within  a very short  period of time from
when the policy wouldve  been renewed   if she wanted all her conditions  covered. And I
dont think she wouldve agreed to pay that. So all of her pre-existing medical conditions
wouldve still been excluded   whether she travelled  in Europe, or beyond,  under the
upgraded cover that she mightve  had.
As it transpires Ms T says that she hasnt  travelled  outside of Europe since  the date her
policy renewed so shes actually saved by money  but not including worldwide cover   which
she probably wouldve  done if she hadnt been asked questions about  the polyp but had 
later declared them, when she booked to go away in July 2018.
And although she did pay for a separate travel insurance policy  with a different provider to
cover her holiday  in Europe  in July 2018,  for the reasons  set out above,  none of her
pre-existing medical wouldve been covered under  the policy which  is the subject of this
complaint unless shed agreed to pay a higher premium.
Ive taken into account that Ms T has told me that the womb polyp hasnt caused her any 
concern since it was removed, that she didnt have to take any painkillers or anaesthetic  
when it was removed  and didnt have to take any time off work. She also says the polyp isnt 
connected to any of the other conditions she has  which dont require screening under the 
policy. I accept what she says about that. But under the terms of the policy, Im satisfied  the 
removal of the polyp constitutes treatment  as she had to undergo  a medical  procedure.
my final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc doesnt need to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1009852