K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about how Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) handled his 
application for a current account. 
background 
In May 2018  Mr T applied  by telephone for a current account  with Nationwide. Nationwide  
initially approved  the application,  and it wrote to Mr T on 30 May 2018 asking for proof of 
identification to complete  the process.  Mr T responded to this letter,  and Nationwide wrote to 
him again on 28 June 2018  to acknowledge his response. 
Mr T also attempted to change his address. Mr T resides in prison, and in August 2018 
Nationwide asked Mr T to provide a formal letter signed both by himself and a warden  
written on the headed paper of the prison. Mr T replied  as Nationwide had instructed, but in 
November 2018  he received an identical letter, again requesting a formal response  on prison 
headed paper. 
Mr T was unhappy, so he complained to Nationwide in December 2018. He said hed 
already done what Nationwide  had asked in relation to his address, and that he still hadnt  
received the card and PIN for his current account.  He explained hed spoken to members  of 
staff in June and August 2018 who assured him he would receive these.  
Nationwide sent its final response to Mr T in January 2019. It explained theres a specific 
process for applications  to be made  from prison. It said Mr T wouldnt be able to open a 
current account because  Nationwide  only offers banking services to certain  prisons, and not 
where Mr T resides.  It apologised to Mr T, and said he shouldve  been told earlier  the current 
account couldnt be opened. Nationwide also acknowledged it sent two identical letters 
regarding Mr Ts request to change  address.  It said this was also an error, and it offered to 
pay Mr T £100  in compensation to reflect the inconvenience.   
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought the case to this service. An investigator  has already 
looked at the case, and she agreed  Nationwide had made some mistakes.  She didnt think 
the £100 offer of compensation was enough, so she asked Nationwide to pay Mr T £200 to 
reflect the overall distress  and inconvenience  caused. She also thought the marker,  placed 
on Mr Ts credit file from the current account application, should be removed. 
Nationwide agreed, it said it would offer Mr T a further £100  and remove  the marker on his 
credit file. 
But Mr T didnt  feel this was enough  among other things, he said:
the effect on his health and mental wellbeing hasnt  been taken into consideration;
he doesnt believe his complaint has been fully understood or each  of his points 
responded to; and
he believes Nationwide should  honour  his approved  current account application and 
open an account for him.
The investigator reconsidered but Mr Ts points didnt  change their mind.  As agreement 
couldnt be reached the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.  
Ref: DRN10598802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Id like to assure Mr T at the outset that I understand his strength of feeling  in this case. Hes 
provided very detailed  points in response  to our investigator. But having said that, I think its 
important for me to explain that while I have read and considered, in full, everything Mr T has 
said and provided,  Im only going to comment on what I feel to be materially  relevant to the 
case. 
Mr T applied  for a current account with Nationwide. But he wasnt  eligible because 
Nationwide doesnt  provide current accounts  to the prison Mr T resides in. Mr T thinks this is 
unfair. But its for Nationwide to decide  who itll offer accounts to, so I dont  think  I can fairly  
say Nationwide  should provide him with a current account.
Despite being  ineligible,  Nationwide wrote to Mr T and told him that his application had been 
approved. It shouldnt have, and this led Mr T into thinking he would have an account with 
Nationwide. It also didnt  tell Mr T he couldnt  have an account until several  months later, by 
which time Nationwide had asked him to provide information - which  it ought to have known 
it didnt need - on several occasions. 
Mr T says because  he thought a current account  with Nationwide would be opened,  he 
closed his existing  current account that he held elsewhere. He says he wouldnt have done  
this if he hadnt  been misled,  and as a result  hes had to pay financial penalties. Its 
reasonable to conclude  that when Mr T received Nationwides  letter, he wouldve been  under 
the impression  his current account would  be opened. So Im persuaded Mr T thought  an 
account would be opened for him, and I think its unlikely he wouldve closed his existing 
account, had Nationwide  given him the correct information about his application.
The investigator asked  Mr T for details  of the financial  penalties  he cited, but Mr T declined  
to provide them. He said asking for evidence is short-sighted given his circumstances. 
While I understand what Mr T has said, closing a current account doesnt ordinarily result in 
any penalties. And in the absence of evidence that he did incur some, Im not persuaded 
there were any. So overall, I dont think Nationwides mistakes caused Mr T a financial loss.
I do think Nationwides mistakes caused Mr T a non-financial loss. I say this because to think  
his application  had been approved, to then find out it hadnt,  caused him disappointment and 
frustration. Hes also had the hassle of providing  Nationwide with information  it didnt need - 
some of which wasnt quick  or easy for him to do, like using  prison headed paper and getting 
the warden to counter-sign.
 
Taking all of this into account,  I think £200 compensation fairly reflects  the impact 
Nationwides mistakes  have had on Mr T. I also think, given the application shouldnt  have  
gone ahead, that Nationwide should  ask the credit references agencies to remove  the 
search it undertook.
Ref: DRN10598803my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide  Building  Society  to pay 
Mr T a total of £200 compensation  and to ask the credit reference agencies  to remove its 
search, if it hasnt done so already.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1059880