K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc, trading as Tesco Bank,  wont  refund to 
her the money  that she paid for some kitchen units. Her complaint is made against Tesco 
Bank under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. 
background 
Mrs B used her Tesco Bank  credit  card in May 2013 to pay £3,007  for some  kitchen units 
and accessories. The units came with a 25 year guarantee. About four years later Mrs B 
contacted the supplier  about some issues with the units  and she provided photos showing 
those issues. The supplier  replaced some parts, but the original units have been 
discontinued so it was unable to replace  everything required. And Mrs B says that some of 
the replacement  parts were damaged so she asked the supplier to remove  the units and to 
refund to her the amount that shed  paid for them. It said that it would need to inspect  the 
units. 
Mrs B claimed a refund from Tesco Bank under  section 75. It initially responded saying that 
Mrs B needed to provide an independent experts report about  the issues   but it then said 
that the supplier  wanted to inspect the units and that a report  wasnt required. Mrs B 
provided a report from an independent  expert. But Tesco Bank said that the supplier had to 
inspect the units  before it could consider her claim further. She wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld.  Without  the 
inspection being  carried out by the supplier, he didn't think  that Tesco Bank  could conclude  
that a breach of contract had occurred for which it would  be liable under section 75. And 
Tesco Bank had said that the section 75 claim could continue  if necessary once the supplier 
had been given the opportunity to inspect the units  which the investigator thought  was fair. 
And Tesco Bank had offered to refund to Mrs B the cost of the report  that shed obtained  
which he also thought  was fair. 
Mrs B asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman and I issued a decision in 
July 2018  but I didnt  uphold it. The kitchen was then inspected in July 2018 and a list of 
the replacement  parts that were required was provided. The supplier then supplied those 
parts to Mrs B  who had said that she didnt want them fitted and would arrange fitting 
herself.
She then claimed  £1,447.49 from Tesco Bank under  section 75 because  she said that the 
supplier hadnt  provided  replacement  drawer boxes  and the cost of replacing them  through  a 
third party would be £1,447.49. But Tesco Bank said that the supplier had replaced all the 
items that had been found to be defective;  refunded Mrs B for a door which could not be 
replaced; and had paid her £100  compensation - which it said was a fair resolution. Mrs B 
wasnt satisfied with Tesco Banks response  so complained again  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld.  He said that 
because of the amount of time that Mrs B had had the kitchen, he wouldn't be able to 
conclude that the goods weren't of satisfactory quality at the time of purchase.  And he said 
that the guarantee says that its for the supplier to decide if something is covered under the 
guarantee and how it'll put it right.
Ref: DRN17699852Mrs B has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
the guarantee is part of her contract  with the supplier;
the inspector  omitted the drawer  boxes  from his report but agreed  in a later e-mail 
that he would include them;
theres nothing in the guarantee that excludes the drawer boxes or allows  for errors 
by the inspector or that, due to a design being  decommissioned and unavailable, 
those parts wont be replaced;
its obvious that the supplier cant replace the drawer  boxes so it should pay for her to 
replace them  and Tesco Bank  is liable  for that under section 75;
the supplier has said that it had arranged for replacement of the drawer  boxes on two 
separate occasions but they didnt arrive with the other replacement items;
the independent inspection report that she arranged concludes that the kitchen was 
aging prematurely  so it wasnt  fit for purpose  when it was purchased  - the coating 
chips, flakes and stains and the drawer boxes collapsed; and
the life of a kitchen  is 10 to 15 years, but the supplier guaranteed this kitchen for 25 
years - so the time that shes had her kitchen is a fraction of the time that the supplier  
expected it to last.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mrs B and to Tesco Bank on 27 June  2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
In certain  circumstances,  section  75 gives a consumer an equal  right to claim 
against the supplier  of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  To be able to uphold  Mrs Bs 
section 75 complaint about Tesco  Bank, I must be satisfied  that theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier and that Tesco  Banks 
response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining 
the outcome of Mrs Bs claim under section 75 as only a court  would be able to do 
that.
Mrs B used her Tesco Bank  credit  card in May 2013 to pay the supplier for some  
kitchen units and accessories. The units came with a 25 year guarantee covering 
defects in material and workmanship.  Mrs B contacted the supplier about some 
issues with the units about four years later  and she provided  photos showing those 
issues. The supplier replaced some door fronts but wasnt able to replace the drawer  
fronts as the original units had been discontinued.  And Mrs B says that the 
replacement door fronts  were damaged so she asked the supplier to remove the 
units and to refund to her the amount that shed paid for them. It said that it would 
inspect the units  but Mrs B claimed  a refund from Tesco  Bank under section 75 and 
then complained to this service. 
Her complaint wasnt upheld but the supplier inspected the kitchen in July 2018  and a 
list of the replacement parts that were  required was provided. The supplier supplied  
those parts to Mrs B  who had said that she didnt want  the parts fitted and would 
arrange fitting herself. The supplier  also says that it refunded to Mrs B the cost of a 
door that couldnt  be replaced and paid her £100 compensation. 
Mrs B says that the inspection report didnt include the drawer boxes that had 
collapsed and that the inspector then agreed to add them to his report. And its clear 
Ref: DRN17699853from the evidence  that the supplier agreed  to provide replacement  drawer boxes to 
Mrs B. Ive seen that it asked her for details about  the sizes of the drawer  boxes in 
September 2018, so that they could be ordered. And in February 2019 it said that the 
drawer boxes had been ordered and were ready  to dispatch. But Mrs B says that she 
hasnt received the replacement drawer boxes and they werent included with the 
other replacement items that she received.
Although the drawer boxes  werent  included on the inspection  report,  the inspector 
has agreed to add them to it  I dont consider that he wouldve  done so unless he 
was satisfied that the drawer  boxes  were faulty and need to be replaced. Mrs B says 
that the drawer boxes have collapsed  and that she disposed of them after they were 
added to the inspection report and the supplier had confirmed that it would supply 
replacements.
The supplier  guaranteed the kitchen for 25 years  and although  there are significant  
limits on the extent of that guarantee  I consider that it was reasonable for Mrs B to 
expect that her kitchen  would last for longer than the six years that have passed 
since she paid for it. Mrs B arranged for the kitchen to be inspected by an interior  
specialist. And the specialist said:  It is my opinion that it would not be economically 
viable to repair these  defects to a satisfactory standard.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that the drawer boxes werent as durable as 
they needed to be and werent fit for purpose  when they were supplied  to Mrs B. So I 
consider that they werent of satisfactory  quality  at that time. That is a breach of 
contract for which Tesco Bank would be jointly liable under  section  75. So I find that 
Tesco Banks response to Mrs Bs complaint so far hasnt been fair or reasonable. 
Mrs B has provided evidence to show that the total cost of made-to-measure  
replacement drawer boxes has increased  to £1,454.25. Im satisfied with that figure 
and I intend to uphold this complaint.  
So subject to any further representations by Mrs B or Tesco  Bank, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Tesco Bank has responded  to my provisional decision and says, in summary, that:
the supplier has confirmed that the issues with the drawer  boxes were not due to any 
manufacturing fault but were caused by wear and tear  which is why they werent 
included on the inspection report as an issue;
the only evidence  of a breach of contract  is part of an e-mail chain between Mrs B 
and the inspector which  couldve  been  taken out of context;
Mrs B has been unhappy  with the service that shes received from the supplier but it 
has provided support  for any agreed  defects, given compensation  where appropriate 
and supplied  replacement  items  whenever possible as a goodwill gesture, even 
though they havent been considered as defective;
theres no obligation for the supplier to supply the drawer boxes and it was only doing 
so as a further  goodwill gesture; and
theres no evidence  to show that the damage to the drawer  boxes was caused by any 
manufacturing defects  and appears to have been caused by wear and tear - and the 
drawer boxes were  only to be replaced  by the supplier as a goodwill gesture.
Ref: DRN17699854my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
The inspector agreed  to add the drawer boxes to his inspection report  and the supplier  
agreed in September 2018  and February 2019 to supply replacement  drawer  boxes  but it 
hasnt done so. Relying on that, Mrs B has disposed of the drawer boxes that she says had 
collapsed. The units had a 25 year guarantee so I consider that its reasonable to expect that 
the drawer boxes  would  last for much longer than four years  and that they wouldnt collapse 
due to wear and tear in that time.
The supplier  has accepted liability for replacing  some parts  of the kitchen units because they 
werent of satisfactory  quality. And I consider that it was reasonable for Mrs B to rely on the 
suppliers two commitments to replace the drawer boxes. As the drawer  boxes  havent  been 
supplied, I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Tesco Bank, 
to either  pay £1,454.25 to Mrs B so that she can pay for the drawer  boxes to be replaced or 
to arrange and pay for the drawer boxes to be replaced.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. And I order 
Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco  Bank, to either pay £1,454.25 to Mrs B so that 
she can pay for the drawer boxes to be replaced or to arrange and pay for the drawer boxes 
to be replaced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1769985