K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about the actions of a Mr S. She says she believed  she was entering  a 
peer-to-peer lending scheme through him but most of the money she paid hasnt been 
returned. She says Quilter  Financial Planning Solutions Limited is responsible for her loss 
because Mr S was acting on its behalf.
background
Since I issued my provisional  decision, Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd has 
changed its name to Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited. In this decision Ive largely  
referred to Positive  Solutions for ease. I confirm theyre the same business.
Mrs W had a long-standing  relationship with Mr S. His business   David Charles  Financial 
Services  operated her companys pension scheme. And from the 1990s,  she and her husband 
used him as their financial adviser  for their private pensions and financial products.
Mrs W says she was made redundant in July 2005. She managed  to get a new job quickly  
and so had the redundancy settlement and payment in lieu of notice as extra. Mr S knew 
this, and she says he suggested using that money to do peer-to-peer lending in 
August 2005.  She says he told her the money would be lent to customers of his who were  
either start-up or existing businesses that needed  short-term loans.
Mrs W entered into the first agreement in September 2005. It was described as a loan to 
DC S of David Charles  Financial Services. It was stated to have an interest  rate of 12% a 
year and to be repayable  in full or part with three  months notice. Mrs W says she questioned 
the fact the agreement was only a page long but Mr S reassured her by saying both he and 
Positive Solutions had consumer credit licences which  allowed  them  to offer the 
arrangement. He also gave her terms of business  setting out that he was a partner of 
Positive Solutions.
Over the next nine years  Mrs W entered into numerous other similar agreements with Mr S. 
She says there were nine agreements in total and shes provided copies of these  together  
with bank statements  showing  transfers to Mr S that match up with the agreements:
5 September  2005  £20,000.
30 September 2006  £30,000.
15 December 2006  £50,000.
17 April 2008  £95,000.
18 December 2008  £112,000.
18 March 2009  £125,000.
28 August 2009  £25,000.
28 August 2011  £40,000.
28 February 2012  £50,000.
She says the agreements  rolled into each other until the one dated 18 March 2009   in other 
words the debt under each agreement was refinanced by the next one. And then a new 
separate chain  was started from 28 August 2009. This is because  it seems Mr S told her the 
maximum amount for an agreement was £125,000. This would mean  Mrs W has £175,000 
owed to her under the agreements  £125,000  under  the 18 March 2009 one and £50,000 
under the 28 February 2012  one.
Ref: DRN11894742Mrs W has provided additional bank  statements showing  various  transfers to Mr S and she 
says she also made  a cash payment to him. She says she doesnt think  she was given 
agreements for these amounts, but the intention was that the money would be used in the 
same way:
A transfer of £5,000 on 29 May 2009.
A transfer of £5,000 on 24 October  2011.
A transfer of £10,000 on 24 November 2011.
A transfer of £10,000 on 25 April 2012.
A transfer of £10,000 on 29 July 2014.
A transfer of £10,000 on 7 November 2014.
A transfer of £20,000 on 10 November 2014.
A cash payment  of £5,000  at some point in November  2014.
Shes said as far as she was concerned, none of the agreements, nor the £45,000  she paid 
Mr S in 2014, were  ever repaid. In total she therefore says she gave Mr S £220,000 that 
hasnt been repaid. Mr S seems to agree  but Positive Solutions has disputed this figure.  
However, because  Ive decided this service  cant consider most of the payments  Mrs W 
made, I havent made a finding  on exactly how much was transferred.
Mrs W says the money she transferred to Mr S came from bank accounts, ISAs,  premium 
bonds, investments,  an endowment policy and a successful injury at work claim. She says 
she received interest regularly for the first four or five years but from that point started  to let it 
accumulate with Mr S  only asking  for payments occasionally. 
Mrs W says she raised concerns about the arrangements  a number of times but was always  
reassured when  Mr S told her he acted  under  Positive Solutions umbrella. He told her 
Positive Solutions and the Financial Services Authority (FSA) regularly audited him and his 
company.
Mr S name appeared on the FSAs  register in connection with Positive Solutions between 1 
December 2001  and 31 December 2012.  The register shows  he was trading as David  
Charles Financial Services and:
 Between 1 December 2001 and 31 October 2007 he was approved by the FSA to 
carry out the controlled function CF 21 Investment Adviser on behalf of 
Positive Solutions.
 Between 1 November 2007 and 21 December 2012 he was approved by the FSA to 
carry out the controlled function CF 30 Customer on behalf of Positive  Solutions.  
This means he could advise on, and arrange, investments for Positive Solutions 
customers.
Positive Solutions says his role changed after that and he became  a mortgage broker  for it. 
It says it would have  written to Mr and Mrs W explaining this in January 2013. But it says 
because of the time thats passed,  it no longer  has a record of that. Its provided a copy of 
the text of the letter it says would have been sent.
Mrs W says the money she transferred in November 2014 was only intended to be a short-
term loan and so she became  suspicious  when  it wasnt repaid when it should have been.  
She visited Mr S office but discovered  none of the other staff knew  about the agreements.  
There was then a large  amount of email  correspondence over several years between  Mrs W, 
Ref: DRN11894743her husband  and Mr S. Mr S was declared bankrupt and eventually told Mrs W he couldnt 
repay the money shed lent. I understand  theres  been a police investigation and Mr S has 
now been charged.
Mrs W complained  to Positive Solutions. Positive Solutions said it wasnt responsible for her 
complaint. It said:
Mr S was free to enter into contracts outside  of his agreement with it. Itd spoken to 
him and he said hed been  clear  with Mrs W that he was entering into the 
agreements in his personal capacity as a sole trader  not in his capacity as a 
registered individual of Positive Solutions.
It had no knowledge  of the agreements  and received no money as a result of them.
Theres no evidence that Mr S led Mrs W to believe itd allowed him to carry out the 
activity. And itd done nothing to give that impression.
If Mr S had held himself out as acting on behalf  of it, hed acted outside the scope of 
his agreement with it and both of their regulatory permissions.
No regulated activities had been  carried out.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional findings is 
attached and forms part of this decision. In summary, I said:
I was satisfied the regulated activity of accepting  deposits had taken place.
Most  of the money Mrs W transferred  to Mr S didnt involve a regulated  activity.  But 
£10,000 of it came  from a Skandia policy that was surrendered on 22 November 
2011. And I was satisfied Mr S had advised on the surrender of this investment, as 
well as making arrangements for it. So there  were additional  regulated activities  in 
relation to that £10,000.
Positive Solutions hadnt given Mr S actual authority.
For the payments Mrs W made  to Mr S that only involved  the regulated activity of 
accepting deposits,  Positive  Solutions  hadnt given him apparent authority; wasnt  
vicariously liable; and wasnt responsible under section  150 of the Financial  Services  
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) so we couldnt  consider  a complaint about those 
payments.
For the £10,000 payment that came  from surrendering a Skandia investment, I was 
minded to say Positive Solutions had given Mr S apparent  authority; that it was 
vicariously liable; and that it had responsibility  under  section 150 FSMA so we could 
consider a complaint about that payment.
I didnt need  to make a finding  for the purposes  of this complaint whether  
Positive Solutions told Mr and Mrs W when Mr S moved from being a financial 
adviser to a mortgage broker because the position he held doesnt affect whether its 
in this services jurisdiction.
Ref: DRN11894744I didnt think the complaint  should  be dismissed.
Although we could  consider the £10,000  payment that came  from surrendering  a 
Skandia investment,  I was satisfied it was most likely that payment had been repaid 
to Mrs W quickly  and certainly  within  three months. So I didnt think  the advice Mr S 
had given her caused  her any loss and it wouldnt be fair to require  Positive Solutions 
to pay compensation  in the circumstances.
Positive Solutions replied  saying it doesnt want to make any further  representations.  Mrs W 
initially said she wanted to but never did so.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whether this complaint 
is one this service can consider. And where  it is, Ive considered all the available  evidence 
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  comments or evidence have been  provided in support of either  case since  my 
provisional decision, I dont feel its necessary to comment further. My conclusions  remain as 
set out in my provisional decision for the same reasons.
my final decision
My decision  is that this service cant look into most of Mrs Ws complaint against Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions  Limited. And although we can look into her complaint in relation to the 
£10,000 she transferred  on 24 November 2011,  my decision  is that no compensation is due 
because it seems Mr S repaid that £10,000 within a fairly short period of time.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL FINDINGS
my provisional  findings  on jurisdiction
Ive considered all the information provided  by both parties  to decide whether this complaint is one we 
can consider  against Positive  Solutions. I know Mrs W will be disappointed  but Im currently planning 
to decide most of it isnt. Ive explained my thinking below.
This service isnt able to look at all complaints. We operate  under a set of rules  and guidance that tell 
us what  we can and cant look at. These are published as part of the Financial  Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Handbook  in a section called Dispute  Resolution: complaints (the DISP rules).
Amongst other requirements, these say:
The complaint has to relate  to an act or omission  by a firm carrying  on one or more listed 
activities, or ancillary activities (DISP  2.3.1R).
Those acts must be the acts of a regulated firm, or ones for which its responsible  
(DISP 2.3.3G).
Ref: DRN11894745Positive Solutions is clearly  a firm under our rules.  So to decide whether its responsible  here, there 
are two issues I need to consider:
Were the acts about  which  Mrs W complains done in the carrying  on of a regulated  activity  
or ancillary to a regulated activity?
Did the principal firm, Positive Solutions, accept responsibility for those  acts?
were the acts Mrs W complains about done  in the carrying on of a regulated activity   or 
ancillary to a regulated activity?
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order  2001 (RAO)  says that 
regulated activities  include:
Accepting deposits (article 5 RAO).
Advising on the merits of buying or selling  a particular  investment which  is a security or 
relevant investment (article 53 RAO).
Making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).
Im not persuaded  any of the other regulated activities are relevant  here.
the agreements Mrs W entered  into
The investigator was satisfied the agreements Mr S entered with Mrs W amounted to instruments 
creating or acknowledging indebtedness and so were a security  or relevant investment.  He was also 
satisfied Mr S had provided advice in relation to them. Positive  Solutions didnt  agree.
Taking everything into account, I agree with Positive Solutions. The general view, as expressed in the 
Encyclopedia of Financial  Services Law Volume 2 at 3A-086,  is that loans arent instruments creating 
or acknowledging  indebtedness for the purposes of the RAO. And theres  nothing  that satisfies me 
these agreements  should  be treated differently.
But  as set out above  theres also a regulated activity of accepting deposits. And Im satisfied this 
activity was carried out in relation to all the agreements.
Article 5(1) RAO says:
Accepting deposits is a specified kind of activity if 
(a)money received by way of deposit is lent to others; or
(b)any other activity of the person accepting the deposit is financed wholly,  or to a material 
extent, out of the capital of or interest on money received  by way of deposit.
And article 5(2) RAO defines  deposit as:
a sum of money, other than one excludedpaid on terms 
(a)under which it will be repaid, with or without interest or premium,  and either  on demand or 
at a time or in circumstances agreed by or on behalf of the person making the payment 
and the person receiving  it; and
(b)which are not referable to the provision of property (other  than currency)  or services or 
the giving of security
Ref: DRN11894746Im satisfied there were deposits as defined here. There were written agreements  saying the money  
would be repaid  on the giving of three months notice. No property, services or security were  given in 
return. And none of the exclusions seem to apply.
The issue then is whether  either (a) or (b) of article 5(1) RAO were  satisfied. 
In relation to (a), it seems as though the money received as deposits wasnt lent to others.  But the 
intention was that it would be. DISP 2.1.4G(1) says carrying  on an activity includes offering, providing 
or failing to provide  a service in relation to an activity . Because the intention  was that the deposits 
would be loaned by Mr S to start-up  companies, Im satisfied Mr S offered to provide a deposit 
accepting service. Either he provided that service (if any of the money  was actually lent on) or failed 
to provide it (if none  of the money was lent on) so the regulated activity of deposit taking was carried  
on. I therefore havent  gone on to consider  (b).
Article 4(1) RAO requires the activity of accepting deposits to be carried on by way of business  in 
order to be a regulated activity. Article 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Carrying on 
Regulated Activities by Way of Business) Order 2001 sets out what this means in relation to the 
activity of accepting deposits. Article 2(1) says a person carrying on the activity of accepting  deposits 
isnt doing so by way of business if:
(a)he does not hold himself  out as accepting deposits on a day to day basis; and
(b)any deposits which  he accepts are accepted only on particular occasions, whether  or not 
involving the issue of any securities.
Looking at the agreements  and what happened here, Im satisfied  Mr S accepted the deposits by way 
of business. It seems  he accepted deposits  when they were offered  and at random points in time. I 
also note that Mrs W had an existing advisory  relationship with him at the point the deposits started, 
and the payments were  stated to be made to David  Charles Financial Services.
Im therefore  satisfied the test for our jurisdiction set out at DISP 2.3.1R is fulfilled because  the 
complaint concerns acts or omissions relating to the carrying on of the regulated activity  of accepting 
deposits. But as set out below, Im also satisfied there was an additional regulated activity that Mr S 
carried out in relation to £10,000 of the money Mrs W transferred to him.
where the money deposited  with Mr S came from
As set out above, the RAO  says that regulated activities include:
Advising on the merits of buying or selling  a particular  investment which  is a security or 
relevant investment (article 53 RAO).
Making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).
Most of the money  Mrs W transferred to Mr S didnt  involve  a regulated activity.  It came from sources  
such as premium bonds, cash ISAs,  bank accounts,  a redundancy payment and an injury at work 
claim. Although Mrs W has referred  to some  of the money coming  from a stocks and shares ISA, she 
hasnt provided anything that demonstrates this. And although some of the money  came from 
investments and endowment  policies,  from what Mrs W has said, the advice Mr S gave her was only 
in relation to the cash that came from these  there wasnt  any advice to surrender them. For 
example, a Legal & General  investment Mrs W has referred to had matured when the money  was 
moved from it.
The only regulated activity  Ive identified in relation to where the money  came from relates  to a 
Skandia policy that was surrendered on 22 November  2011. Mrs W said:
Ref: DRN11894747We had a review  in October/November 2011,  Mr S advised us an approximate value of our 
Skandia Funds. After  10 years the fund hadnt performed very well, so he advised us, if we 
surrender the fund and reinvested in peer to peer lending, he would  waiver his charges on us 
surrendering the Skandia Fund  and could  get us a better rate of return.
Shes provided an email  she received  from Mr S on 3 November  2011. This said:
Please  find attached  the surrender  form for Skandia.
Please complete and sign and post back to me
Under articles 25 and 53 of the RAO, any advice  to surrender  the Skandia investment, or the making 
of any arrangements to surrender it, would  be a regulated  activity. In the circumstances here, Im 
satisfied Mr S advised on the surrender of the Skandia investment.  Im also satisfied he made the 
arrangements for this. So there were regulated  activities in relation to the Skandia investment.
I can see that £10,217.02  was received into Mr and Mrs Ws bank account  on 22 November  2011 
from Skandia  Multifunds . And two days later £10,000  was transferred  to Mr S. Mrs W says she 
doesnt think  she received  an agreement that related to this money. But Im satisfied its most likely  
this money was transferred  to Mr S as part of the purported peer-to-peer lending scheme. I say this 
because I can see the money was paid direct to Mr S  in the same  way the rest of the transfers in 
question were  made.
Taking everything into account Im satisfied Mr S advice  to surrender the Skandia investment and 
transfer the money to him to use for a purported peer-to-peer lending scheme was regulated  advice. 
In the case of TennetConnect Services  Limited v Financial Ombudsman and John and Frances 
Thorpe the judge analysed the position where  the consumers had been advised to switch  out of 
regulated investments into a fictitious, unregulated  overseas property investment. He said:
It was simply really fraudulent regulated adviceThe effect of advice to sell a specified  
investment, based on a fraudulent misrepresentation that the money would be placed  in an 
unregulated investment, when the intention  was that it would instead be stolen,  cannot be 
different from the effect of a fraudulent misrepresentation  that the money  would be placed in a 
specified investment, when  the intention was that it would be stolen. Regulation does  not turn 
on the precise terms in which the fraudulent  intention is disguised.
Im satisfied the same analysis  can be applied here. But to decide whether we can look at the merits 
of the complaint, I also need  to consider whether  Positive  Solutions was responsible for those 
activities.
is Positive Solutions responsible for those acts?
Mrs W didnt  deal with any employees of Positive Solutions   although  Mr S was an agent  of Positive  
Solutions, he wasnt its employee. But Positive Solutions might still be responsible,  even if none of its 
employees were involved. 
This could be through  having  given  actual authority;  having given apparent or ostensible authority;  
being vicariously liable; and/or having statutory  responsibility.
did Positive Solutions give Mr S actual authority?
Positive Solutions has provided copies of the agreements it says would have been in place between it 
and Mr S  one before 2013 and one after.
The agreement that was in place  between  Positive Solutions and Mr S before 2013 said:
Ref: DRN11894748Clause 2.1:
The Company hereby  appoints  the Registered  Individual  as its Registered  Individual for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for new Contracts,  for submission  to 
Institutions specified  by the Registered Individual  and approved by the Company.
Clause 2.4:
the Company  shall not be bound by acts of the Registered Individual  which exceed the 
authority granted  under  the provision of this Agreement or by fraudulent acts of the 
Registered Individual or of the Registered Individuals  staff.
Clause 10.2:
The Registered  Individual shall limit, conduct and transact classes of investment to which  the 
Company is authorised to do. The Company is not authorised to handle  clients money.
Whilst the agreement that was in place between Positive Solutions  and Mr S at the time of the 
November 2014 agreement said:
Independent Mortgage Brokers may only provide  advice in relation to mortgages,  general 
insurance and protection contracts  to clients, excluding any contracts  having an investment  
content, they must not provide any other form of advice covered by the Financial  Services 
and Markets Act 2000
The Company hereby  appoints  the Independent Mortgage  Broker [Mr S] as its Independent  
Mortgage Broker for the purpose only of introducing Applications by Clients  for new 
Contracts, for submission to Institutions  specified  by the Independent Mortgage Broker and 
approved by the Company
the Company shall not be bound by acts of the Independent Mortgage Broker which exceed 
the authority granted  under  the provision of this Agreement  or by fraudulent  acts of the 
Independent Mortgage Broker
The Independent Mortgage  Broker shall limit, conduct and transact classes of business to 
which the Company is authorised to do. The Company  is not authorised to handle clients 
money.
Accepting deposits with the purported  intention of using them for peer-to-peer lending  is clearly not 
something Positive Solutions authorised Mr S to do under  either  of these  agreements. And in fact, 
holding client money is something  Positive  Solutions itself didnt have permission to do.
Ive also considered the authorities on how fraud impacts  whether actual authority is given. Bowstead 
& Reynolds on Agency 21st Edition says at 3-010  3-011:
No Authority  to Act Other Than  for Principals Benefit
Authority to act as agent includes only authority to act honestly in pursuit of the interests of 
the principal.
Comment
It is implicit in a conferral of authority that the principal intends  the agent to exercise the 
relevant powers in the interests of the principal. An agent who deliberately or recklessly 
exercises powers against the interests of the principal must know that he acts without  his 
principals consent,  and therefore acts without authority. 
Ref: DRN11894749In other words, theres an implied limitation on an agents actual authority that he cant abuse  it by 
acting otherwise than what he honestly thinks is in his principals best interest.
Although I havent been provided with the findings the police reached, I understand Mr S has now 
been charged.  Taking everything into account,  it seems most likely he wasnt acting honestly in the 
interests of Positive  Solutions.  When Mr and Mrs W were trying to work out what  had happened  to the 
money, he didnt produce any verified  evidence  showing who the money had been given to and when. 
And if the money had in fact been given as loans to businesses, it seems unlikely that hed have been 
unable to return any of the money.
In the circumstances here, Im satisfied Positive Solutions didnt give Mr S actual authority.
did Positive Solutions give Mr S apparent or ostensible  authority?
Although Mr S didnt have  actual authority from Positive Solutions, it could also have given whats 
called apparent or ostensible authority.
the relevant case law
It was described  in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal) Ltd:
An apparent or ostensible authority,  on the other hand, is a legal  relationship between the 
principal and the contractor  created by a representation, made by the principal to the 
contractor, intended to be and in fact acted upon by the contractor, that the agent has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the 
apparent authority,  so as to render the principal liable  to perform any obligations  imposed 
upon him by such contract. To the relationship so created the agent is a stranger. He need 
not be (although he generally is) aware of the existence of the representation but he must not 
purport to make the agreement as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by 
the contractor  by entering into a contract with the agent,  operates as an estoppel, preventing 
the principal  from asserting that he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the 
agent had actual authority to enter into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the actual authority of the agent. His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agents  actual authority  is. All that the contractor can know is what they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority.
The representation which  creates apparent authority may take a variety of forms of which 
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principals business  with other persons. By so doing  the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with the other persons  of the kind 
which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually actual 
authority to enter into.
Although the judge referred to contractors, the law on apparent authority applies to any third party 
dealing with the agents of a principal  including consumers like Mrs W.
In Hely-Hutchinson  v Brayhead  Ltd, one of the judges said:
Ostensible or apparent authority is the authority of an agent as it appears to others. It often 
coincides with actual authority. Thus,  when  the board appoint one of their number to be 
managing director,  they invest him not only with implied  authority, but also with ostensible  
Ref: DRN118947410authority to do all such things as fall within the usual scope of that office. Other  people who 
see him acting as managing  director are entitled to assume that he has the usual authority of 
a managing director. But sometimes ostensible authority  exceeds  actual authority. For 
instance, when the board appoint the managing director, they may expressly limit his authority 
by saying  he is not to order goods worth more  than £500 without the sanction of the board. In 
that case his actual  authority is subject to the £500 limitation, but his ostensible authority 
includes all the usual authority of a managing  director. The company is bound by his 
ostensible authority  in his dealings with those who do not know of the limitation. He may 
himself do the holding-out.  Thus, if he orders goods  worth  £1,000 and signs himself 
Managing Director for and on behalf of the company, the company is bound  to the other 
party who does not know of the £500 limitation.
And in Martin and another v Britannia Life Limited  the judge quoted Article 74 in Bowstead  and 
Reynolds on Agency 16th edition to explain apparent or ostensible authority:
Where a person, by words or conduct, represents or permits it to be represented that another 
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority.
This was endorsed in the case of Anderson v Sense Network,  where the judge  said:
In my view,  a case of ostensible authority requires  much more than an assertion  that Sense 
conferred a badge of respectability on MFSS. As Martin shows, it requires a representation 
that there was authority to give advice of the type that was giventhe relevant question is 
whether the firm has knowingly or even unwittingly led a customer to believe that an 
appointed representative or other agent is authorised to conduct business  on its behalf of a 
type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct
And in Armagas Ltd v Mundogas  S.A. one of the judges said:
In the commonly  encountered case, the ostensible  authority is general in character,  arising  
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question.
In Sino Channel Asia Ltd v Dana Shipping and Trading (Singapore) Ptd Ltd the judge said:
the foundation of ostensible  authority is the representation of the principal and it is generally  
trite law that an employee/agent cannot purport to create his own ostensible authority.  
However, though a communication is made directly (or immediately) by the agent, it may be 
inferred that the representation is that of the principal,  arising from his conduct
As explained  by Lord Pearson  in the Hely-Hutchinson caseThat may be shown by 
inference from the conduct of the board of directors [the principal]  in the particular  case  by, for 
instance, placing the agent in a position where he can hold himself out as their agent and 
acquiescing in his activities, so that it can be said they have in effect caused the 
representation to be made.  They are responsible for it and, in the contemplation  of law, they 
are to be taken to have made the representation to the outside contractor
As expressed by the High Court of Australia, in Pacific  Carriers Ltd v BNP ParibasThe  
holding out might  result from permitting a person to act in a certain  manner  without taking 
proper safeguards against  misrepresentation
In Gurtner v BeatonNeill LJ observedThe development of the doctrine  has been based in 
part upon the principle that where the court has to decide which  of two innocent parties  is to 
suffer from the wrongdoing  of a third party the court will incline towards  placing the burden 
Ref: DRN118947411upon the party who was responsible for putting the wrongdoer in the position in which he 
could commit the wrong.
Here, Id therefore need to decide that Positive Solutions made representations to Mrs W that Mr S 
had the necessary authority. It isnt enough for Mr S to have said he was acting on behalf of Positive 
Solutions. But it would be enough if Positive Solutions had placed Mr S in a position  which would  
objectively be viewed as carrying its authority to do the acts complained of.
Id also need to decide  that Mrs W reasonably relied on those representations.  In the case of 
Anderson v Sense Network , the judge  said:
a relevant ingredient  of a case based on apparent authority is reliance on the faith of the 
representation allegedIn Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  representation in 
that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice concerning a 
remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them  proceeded  
throughout on the footing  that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every respect as the 
agent of [the alleged principal] with authority  from [the alleged principal]  so to act.
The case law is clear that whether representations  were  relied upon very much depends on the facts 
of the case.
the agreements not funded by the Skandia proceeds
Looking at the agreements  not funded by the Skandia proceeds,  the regulated activities were  Mr S 
acceptance of the deposits. So the question is whether  Positive Solutions gave him apparent authority 
to carry on that activity on its behalf.
Whilst I cant be sure exactly what Mrs W was told, I havent seen any evidence that 
Positive Solutions made any representations that would  have led her to believe Mr S was acting as its 
agent in accepting deposits.  And I cant say Positive Solutions put Mr S in a position which  would 
objectively be regarded as carrying its authority to accept  deposits  people generally wouldnt expect 
financial advisers or mortgage brokers to accept deposits.
This is supported by the document Mrs W was given  by Mr S which  shes shared  with us. It explained 
he was an IFA partner of Positive Solutions, but included a page of terms of business  which 
included a section headed  WE DO NOT  HANDLE  CLIENTS MONEY.
It also appears Mr S took steps to distance himself from Positive  Solutions in relation to the purported  
peer-to-peer lending scheme:
All nine agreements  weve been given  are between Mrs W and DC S of David  Charles 
Financial Services .
Most of the agreements are on unbranded paper and dont mention  Positive  Solutions at all.
Mrs W has said all the face to face discussions she had with Mr S were during home visits.
And theres evidence that suggests Mrs W viewed  the agreements as being personal  agreements 
with Mr S. For example,  the fact she asked  to be included  as a creditor in Mr S bankruptcy.
In the circumstances I cant conclude  Positive Solutions is responsible  for most of the activities of Mr 
S that this complaint relates to.
the £10,000 transfer  on 24 November 2011 that resulted  from advice  to surrender  a Skandia 
investment
Ref: DRN118947412Im minded to reach a different conclusion  in relation  to the £10,000 that came from surrendering the 
Skandia investment.  But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think  Mrs W suffered  a loss as a result.  So Ive 
only briefly  set out my reasons for reaching a different  jurisdiction  outcome. In summary, Im satisfied:
At the relevant time, Positive Solutions was holding Mr S out as an IFA for it to the outside  
world. He was approved by the FSA to carry out the controlled function CF 30 Customer  
which meant he could advise on, and arrange, investments for Positive Solutions customers. 
These are activities that would be expected of an IFA firm. The agreement  it had with him 
also required him to provide Positive Solutions Terms  of Business  to each of his clients  
which we know he did here. Advising on the investment and arranging its surrender are 
exactly the kind of activities that would be expected of an IFA. And theyre  activities that 
Positive Solutions in principle allowed its registered individuals  to do. Taking everything into 
account Im satisfied Positive Solutions represented  and intended to do so  that Mr S had 
the necessary authority  in relation to surrendering the Skandia  investment.
Mrs W relied on those representations and that reliance was reasonable.  The FSA register is 
clear that Mr S could  only give investment  advice if he was acting on Positive Solutions 
behalf. And I think its unlikely she would have followed his advice  if she knew he didnt have 
actual authority from Positive Solutions.
Mrs W was relying on Mr S to not give her an unsuitable  recommendation to move her money  
from a sound investment to an unsound one. I dont think shed  have assumed  that because  
the reinvestment part of the switch  was a private arrangement that the switch  
recommendation was nothing to do with the normal arrangements  under which he gave 
regulated financial advice. Instead, because the switch advice Mr S gave her was suitability  
advice (in other words that the Skandia investment was less suitable for her than his 
purported peer-to-peer lending scheme), I think its most likely she would have thought it was 
given in the same capacity as any other advice about retail investments.
So I consider that Positive Solutions did give Mr S apparent authority  to advise  Mrs W on its behalf to 
make the switch out of the Skandia  investment  into the purported peer-to-peer scheme, by way of a 
loan to himself.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that I also think its fair to hold Positive Solutions 
responsible for that switch advice. It was in a position where it could monitor what Mr S was doing; it 
didnt tell Mrs W that there were any limits on his actual authority; and in giving  financial advice  and 
arranging the surrender of an investment,  Mr S was carrying out normal business of 
Positive Solutions.
is Positive Solutions vicariously liable  for Mr S actions?
The law of vicarious liability  has been  evolving  over recent years.  As set out above,  it seems Mr S 
acted fraudulently. So the tort of deceit is relevant.  The test for vicarious liability  is therefore as set out 
by the Court of Appeal in the case of Winter v Hockley Mint. And it requires:
a holding out or representation by the principal to the claimant,  intended  to be and in fact 
acted upon by the claimant,  that the agent had authority  to do what he or she did, including  
acts falling  within the usual  scope of the agents ostensible authority.
This means  the situation would have to be one in which Positive Solutions gave Mr S ostensible 
authority to act on its behalf in making  the relevant representations to Mrs W. Ive already set out my 
analysis of that above  and so I wont repeat  it here.
statutory responsibility under section 150 of the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA)
At the relevant time, section 150(1) FSMA said:
Ref: DRN118947413A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person 
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty.
Section 150(1) FSMA therefore only covers acts and omissions by an authorised person   in this 
case, by Positive Solutions. So here it bites only to the extent that Positive Solutions is responsible 
(whether by actual or ostensible authority  or vicarious liability) for an act or omission of Mr S.
For the reasons  Ive already  set out, Positive Solutions is responsible for the advice to switch out of 
the Skandia investment  into the purported peer-to-peer lending scheme. So to that extent, section 
150(1) FSMA  is another potential route to responsibility for that limited part of the complaint only.
But section 150(1) only applies where  a person has suffered a loss as a result of contravention of a 
regulatory rule. For the reasons below, I dont think the Skandia  switch caused Mrs W to suffer any 
loss. So section 150(1)  isnt engaged on the facts  and doesnt need to be considered any further.
whether Mr and Mrs W were  told when Mr S role at Positive Solutions changed
Mrs W says Positive Solutions should have notified her and her husband  at the point Mr S moved 
from being  a financial  adviser to a mortgage broker in December 2012.  They  say he continued  to give 
financial advice to them after that date.
Positive Solutions says it would have written to them, but it no longer has a record of this. I dont 
believe I need  to make a finding on this for the purpose of this decision. I say this because   unlike  
the investigator  I dont  think that whether Mr S was a financial adviser  or a mortgage broker affects  
whether this complaint  is in this services jurisdiction.
If Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with any other advice Mr S gave them after his role changed, that would 
need to be the subject of a separate  complaint.
my provisional  findings  on dismissing the case
Positive Solutions says we should dismiss  this complaint  under DISP 3.3.4AR:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint  referred to the Financial  Ombudsman Service on 
or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman considers that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint  would otherwise seriously impair the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Its referred to DISP  3.3.4BG which says:
Examples of a type of complaint that would  otherwise seriously impair the effective operation  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(1)where it would be more suitable for the complaint  to be dealt with by a court or a 
comparable ADR entity
Positive Solutions says this complaint is more suitable for court because Mrs W and Mr S disagree on 
many factual issues. I dont agree. As I explained when I decided an oral hearing  wasnt needed, Im 
satisfied its clear what their respective recollections are. Its therefore  simply  a case  of considering 
those recollections and deciding whats most likely to have happened. Thats something this service  
regularly does  and theres nothing about the circumstances in this complaint that make me think  it 
would be more suitable for a court.
Ref: DRN118947414my provisional  findings  on merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. To be clear, this is only in relation to the £10,000 that was transferred 
to Mr S on 24 November 2011 as a result of surrendering a Skandia investment.
When asked what money she got back from Mr S Mrs W replied:
I have received two payment back from D S/David Charles Financial  one for £5,000 and one 
for £10,000. I think these repayment must  relate to document numbers 39 to 42 where I found 
that I had transferred money,  but had no agreements.
Ive looked at documents  39-42 in the bundle Mrs W provided:
Document 39 is a bank statement showing  a payment of £5,000  to Mr S on 29 May 2009.
Document 40 is a bank statement showing  the Skandia payment going in on 
22 November 2011 and a payment of £10,000 to Mr S on 24 November  2011.
Document 41 is a bank statement showing  a payment of £5,000  to Mr S on 24 October  2011.
Document 42 is a bank statement showing  a payment of £10,000 to Mr S on 25 April 2012.
I queried the fact that documents 39-42 totalled more  than the £15,000 Mrs W said had been repaid.  
She responded setting out the money she believed  was still owed to her. This list didnt include any of 
the four transfers  set out above. But she went on to say:
For the payments  39-42  that I do not have agreements for, I cannot remember  if an 
agreement was ever drawn up. Or if any of this has been repaid. 
She went on to speculate  that maybe only the 25 April 2012 transfer had been repaid.
Unfortunately, I cant know for certain whether the £10,000 that was transferred to Mr S on 
24 November 2011 as a result of surrendering a Skandia investment was ever repaid. But taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied its most  likely  it was.
I say this because Mrs W has a very good record of the agreements  she entered into with Mr S. Shes 
even kept copies of agreements that were  superseded by later ones. I therefore  think  its unlikely that 
there was ever an agreement  that covered the £10,000 Mrs W transferred  on 24 November 2011.
For the money given to Mr S in 2014, Mrs W has said:
Mr S was meant to draw  up an agreement for £45,000 which  was for money  transferred 
between July 2014 and November 2014, it was agreed the investments would  be repaid by 1st 
March, Mr S failed to draw up an agreement. I had serious health issues between December 
2014 to May 2015, so I did not chase him up for this agreement.  When  I was well enough we 
visited Mr S office  concerning  this money.
I therefore  think its likely that Mrs W would  have chased an agreement  for the £10,000 she 
transferred on 24 November 2011 unless she wasnt expecting to receive one. The only reason  I can 
think of to explain  why shed be comfortable with Mr S not issuing  an agreement is that the plan was 
that the money would be repaid reasonably  quickly   and this was then done.  The next agreement 
she entered into was on 28 February 2012. If the £10,000 shed transferred on 24 November  2011 
was still outstanding at that point Id have expected  her to ask for it to be added to that agreement. 
But this wasnt done and I havent seen  anything that suggests Mrs W asked for it to be done. It 
therefore seems most  likely that the £10,000 was repaid before 28 February  2012.
Ref: DRN118947415Mrs W has told us Mr S advised the Skandia investment should be surrendered because  it hadnt 
performed well. If everything happened as it should have, it seems most  likely that this advice  would 
have been the same. But the advice would  have  been  to reinvest in something more  suitable than the 
purported peer-to-peer lending scheme. However, it seems Mr S repaid the money to Mrs W, who 
had access to the money again almost immediately and it was then for her to decide  what  to do with 
it. In these circumstances, I dont think the relevant  advice caused  her any loss and I dont think  itd be 
fair to require Positive Solutions to pay any compensation.
Ref: DRN1189474