K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about two personal loans provided to him by Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money, (Madison) which he says were unaffordable.
background
Mr W took out his first loan with Madison  in May 2016. He was given a loan for £1,000.
The total he had to pay back,  including  the interest was £1,836.72 over 24 months.
In February 2017  Mr W topped up this loan by taking out a further loan for £2,600.45.
£800.45 of this loan was used to pay off the remaining balance of the first loan and £1,800
was credited to Mr Ws bank account. The loan was to be repaid over 24 months.
Including the interest,  the total repayment  would have been  £5,003.28.
Mr W made several repayments towards  the second  loan. But Mr W says he was in financial
difficulties and became  unable  to continue his repayments. He stopped making  repayments
after August  2017.
In March 2018 Mr W complained to Madison  via a professional representative,  as he said
the loans he was provided with were unaffordable. He also said,  considering his credit
history, he wasnt creditworthy.
In response Madison said at the point  of application,  consumers are taken  through extensive
questions to ascertain  their circumstances. They are asked a several questions around  their
income and expenditure as well as the purpose  of the loan and employment  details.  
A welcome  call also asks the consumer to confirm the loan is affordable and whether  they
are aware of any future  changes which could affect their ability to repay the loan. They  also
said consumers are asked to sign a declaration saying the information theyd given was
accurate.
Madison didnt uphold Mr Ws complain regarding the first loan they provided. However, they
said theyd reviewed the credit file from when Mr W applied for the second loan.
Madison said they hadnt included a payday  loan Mr W had in their assessment. And so,
they said they could have  asked more questions of Mr W to fully assess his circumstances at
the time of the application.
So, Madison  said Mr W was due a refund of all of the interest  on his second  loan amounting
to £2,402.83. The balance of Mr Ws loan at the time was £3,810.93 and so, Madison
removed the interest  from the balance. This reduced the balance to £1,408.10.  Madison also
said it would  remove the loan from Mr Ws credit  file. Finally, Madison provided Mr W with
contact information  of debt support agencies.
Mr W remained unhappy with Madison and so brought  his complaint to us. I sent Mr W and 
Madison my provisional  decision on 14 December 2020. I explained that I thought Madison  
should have conducted more thorough checks before  agreeing to lend Mr W funds.  And 
those further checks  would have revealed that Mr W wasnt able to sustainably repay the 
loans hed asked  for. So, I was minded to uphold the complaint. Ive copied my findings from 
my provisional decision below.
Ref: DRN10392242my provisional findings
In my provisional findings, I said:
My role, in cases like these, is to consider if Madison carried out a reasonable assessment
or Mr Ws creditworthiness and the affordability  of the loans they provided.  In order  for me to
do so, Ive considered  the relevant laws, regulatory  rules and good industry practice  from the
time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set rules and guidance for lenders in its Consumer
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC).  The rules  said Madison  must lend responsibly,  taking
reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford  to
meet the repayments of its loans over the full course of the agreement.
This means  Madison needs to show it conducted some form of affordability assessment
before offering Mr W the loan. The FCA didnt specify exactly what  checks were  required to
carry out a reasonable assessment. However, the checks needed to be proportionate and
had to take into account the information the business was aware of at the time the
agreement was made.
In practical terms Madison had to ensure Mr W was able to make  the repayments  to his
loans without causing him undue difficulty or adverse  consequences.
Theres broadly agreement that Madison  didnt  adequately assess  whether the second loan
Mr W applied  for was affordable. But Mr W says the first loan was also unaffordable  and
Madison disagree.  So, Ive concentrated my decision on whether Madison did enough to
assess the affordability of Mr Ws first loan in 2016.
In the application form for the first loan I can see Mr W completed an income and
expenditure section.  The form records Mr W as having a monthly income of £1,570.
It recorded his expenditure as £835, including £50 of card payments. It didnt record any 
other loan repayments.
Madison provided  us with the credit  data they used to assess  Mr W affordability of the first
loan. I can see from the credit data Mr W had several credit accounts with various
businesses. The total balance of which was recorded at just over £3,000.  The credit data
showed Mr W had two mail order  accounts,  an unsecured loan, a credit card, an advance
against income and several home  credit  agreements. It also showed Mr W was one month  in
arrears on his credit card and had four home  credit  agreements  also in arrears.
Whilst Madison did secure  several pieces of information on Mr W before it made its decision,
Im not satisfied that what it did with the information  was reasonable. Ill explain why.
Its not simply a case of collecting the information, Madison had to review  it to make sure it
had enough information to make  an informed decision on the affordability  of the loan for
Mr Ws specific circumstances.  The credit data shows evidence that Mr W didnt include all
of his monthly expenditure on credit in his income  and expenditure submission. It also
showed evidence  that Mr W wasnt managing  his finances well, with his credit  card in one
month of arrears and several home credit agreements also in arrears.
Madison had a responsibility to ensure the repayments for any new lending  were sustainable
for Mr W. Given concerning information held within the credit file I think  Madison should  have
Ref: DRN10392243gathered more information about  Mr Ws finances before making its decision. Therefore, I
dont think Maddisons  checks were reasonable or proportionate.
But that doesnt necessarily mean Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.  Id also need to be
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown Madison that
Mr W couldn't sustainably  afford  the loan.
Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements to see what better checks  would have shown
Madison. Im not suggesting  this is the check Madison should have done,  but it shows  me a
better picture of what more thorough checks  are likely to have  shown at the time.
I focused on Mr Ws income  end expenditure in the months leading  up to his first loan
application at the end of May 2016.  Firstly, I noted  Mr Ws income  was broadly in line with
what he had recorded  on his loan application. His expenditure on rent, insurance and utilities
are also in line with his submission.
But Mr Ws statements  showed a regular monthly loan repayment of £144.91  as well as cash
withdrawals. And I think its likely some of these cash withdrawals were  used  to pay back  the
home credit agreements that werent in arrears.
The bank statements also showed  Mr W had taken out payday loans each month in March,
April and May of £120, £100 and £90 respectively. He also had regular transfers  in of funds
when his account balance was low. These  transfers all came  from the same  account.
The payments totalled  £488 in March, £387.65  in April and £83 in May 2016. Mr W says
these funds were borrowed from his sister to help him out. And just before the loan was
agreed in late May 2016, Mr W had two direct debits returned  to his account  as it contained
insufficient funds.
I think Mr Ws bank  statements  show he wasnt managing his finances well at the time of the
first loan application. He was relying on regular payday loans and help from his family.
And his credit file was also showing missed payments. So, I dont think  Mr W was in a
position to sustainably repay  the first loan offered  by Madison. And had it done  more 
thorough checks,  I think this is likely  to have become apparent  to Madison too.
Therefore, Im minded to uphold this complaint and tell Madison  to put Mr W back into the 
position he would have been in had it not provided him with either  of the loans.
the response to my provisional  decision
Madison responded to say they had nothing further  to add. And Mr W didnt provide any 
further comments or submissions either. 
So, the case has been passed back to me to reach  a final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Ref: DRN10392244Neither side have  provided  me with any further comments or submissions. That means I 
have no reason to depart  from the findings Ive already  reached  in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.
putting things right
To put things right Madison  should;
refund  all the interest and charges applied as a result of loans 1 and 2;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges already paid from
the date they were  paid, to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file as a result of the
interest and charges on these loans;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to take off tax from this interest. Madison must
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I uphold this 
complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
Tim Wilkes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1039224