K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about how British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)  dealt with her Homecare 
insurance policy claim. My references to BG include its agents.
background
Mrs L claimed on her Homecare policy with BG when she noticed signs of a leak in her 
hallway. 
BGs engineer attended and said two leaks were  coming from the sealant around the shower 
cubicle which was a wear and tear issue not covered by the policy.
Mrs L says BGs engineer  recommended  she replace  the tiles, grouting  and sealant. The 
work cost her about £1,300 through  a private  fitter. The leak causing the problem  with the 
ceiling continued.  She then made a claim on her home insurance with another  insurer  for 
trace and access and its engineer found  leaks in the pipework behind  the tiles. The damage 
was covered under the home insurance but Mrs L had to pay the excess. She complained  to 
BG that its engineer misdiagnosed the leak.
BG said its engineer wouldnt  have  identified a leak behind the wall with such  a substantial  
leak on the shower cubicle. Its engineer recommended  the sealant  be repaired but not that 
the area needed retiling. BG added that when the problem leak continued after the resealing  
Mrs L could have contacted it to give it the opportunity to repair  the problem.
Mrs L complained to us. She said on reflection she thinks BGs engineer made leaks by 
positioning the shower so water flowed over sealant  areas it wouldnt usually come into 
contact with rather than look for the real cause. She thinks BGs  engineer  should  have  run 
the shower into the toilet to check there  was no issue with the sealant  as the subsequent 
bathroom fitter did. She wants BG to pay the cost of the retiling work. She also wants  
compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought BG had acted reasonably when assessing  the cause of the leak 
and didnt need to make any payment  to Mrs L.
Mrs L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said at the very least  BG should 
pay her the cost of her home  insurance  claim excess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
BGs engineers report shows two leaks came from the sealant around the shower. Ive seen 
what Mrs L says about  how the engineer positioned the water against the seal. Ive no expert 
evidence to show the test the BG engineer did to come to his conclusion was wrong.  But as 
the seal leaked it was reasonable for the engineer to think  the seal was the problem. He 
acted reasonably in not doing further  checks at that time.
Ref: DRN10995722Mrs L raised that BG's  engineers report says he checked the pipes and no leaks were found 
which isnt correct. Its not clear which pipes he checked but its very unlikely to have been 
the relevant pipe as Mrs L would have known because access  was needed through  the wall. 
As the engineer thought  hed found  the leak he acted reasonably in not removing tiles to do 
further tests.
BGs engineers report says the seal needed  replacing which  Mrs L will arrange.  The report 
doesnt mention  the area needed retiling  and our investigator has noted  that Mrs L had plans 
to refit the bathroom at some  point which is why additional work to the seal repair  was 
carried out. 
So even if I thought BG acted unreasonably theres no basis  for me to say BG should 
reimburse Mrs L the cost of the retiling  work.  Theres no evidence BG recommended  all that 
work and Mrs L was going to have the work  done at some point anyway.
The continued leak shows  BG had misdiagnosed the shower sealant leaks as causing the 
problem. Mrs L claimed  on her home insurance  to find the problem leak and repair.  
I understand she was frustrated by BGs  misdiagnosis. But as she didnt first return  to BG it 
didnt have the opportunity to find and repair the leak under its policy. As the BG policy has a 
£1,000 limit for getting access and making good  for each repair Mrs L may not have had to 
make a claim on her home policy. 
If BGs policy hadnt covered all the work required Mrs L would have either had to make a 
claim on her home insurance or pay the costs herself anyway. Theres  no basis  for me to 
say BG must pay the cost of the excess for the home insurance claim.
Mrs Ls detailed all the stress she felt in having to deal with the situation  and repairs  on her 
own which Im sorry to see. But as I think BG acted reasonably in thinking  the shower leaks  
were the problem and theres no evidence it recommended the bathroom tiles be replaced it 
isnt responsible. I dont  make any compensation award. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1099572