K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Santander UK Plc (Santander),  trading as Alliance & Leicester at the time, 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs P bought the policy by phone in 2005 at the same  time as taking a mortgage.  It provided 
cover for Mrs P for accident,  sickness  and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. For a successful claim, it offered to pay £622 a month  to help Mrs P with her 
mortgage payments  and related costs.  The policy cost £37 a month at the time.
Mrs P was employed at the time as a carer and had been there seven  years. Shes told us 
she was entitled  to less than twelve but at least six months full sick pay and redundancy 
pay. Shes told us that aside from this and help from her husband, she didnt have  any other 
means, like savings, to pay the mortgage  with if she couldnt work.
Mrs P has told us of a health issue more than twenty  years before the sale, for which  she 
has been to her GP and taken medicine. She hasnt told us this ever kept her off work. Shes 
also told us an injury  around four years before the sale kept her off work for six weeks.  She 
hasnt told us of this causing any ongoing problems after that. Mrs P hasnt told us of having 
before the sale any other or more recent  health issues or treatment.
Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ps representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs P wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ps representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Santander  should  have told Mrs P 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs P and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mrs P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN13184452Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions in 
s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). Although  the non-statutory  provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on 
those selling insurance, I consider they still represent a helpful  guide to good  industry  
practice. As a result it is appropriate  for me to take them  into account along with the relevant 
ICOB rules and the other  relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN13184453The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mrs Ps complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN13184454did Mrs P know  she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mrs P hasnt said anything to make me 
think Santander didnt  make this clear.  Also,  the financial review and statement of demands 
and needs produced at the time suggest  the PPI was something Santander recommended to 
Mrs P and she accepted,  rather  than something  she was led to believe she had to take. The 
key facts document for the mortgage  also made clear the PPI was optional  insurance and 
stated that buildings insurance  was the only insurance Mrs P had to have in place.
Ive nothing to suggest Mrs P was pressured. Taking  everything into account,  I think  its 
more likely Mrs P knew the PPI was optional  and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it gave advice during this sale. Mrs P cant recall  whether advice was given. 
With all this in mind, and looking at what I have from the sale, Im persuaded Santander 
gave advice. This means Santander had to advise Mrs P with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what exactly was discussed in the call, but the documentary evidence  suggests 
Santander took some steps to establish whether  the PPI was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs P. The adviser had information about  some of Mrs Ps financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application. But although a demands  and needs statement was completed  to 
try and establish whether Mrs P had a need  for the policy  by asking  questions  about her 
wider circumstances  such as her existing means  I dont think it did enough to ensure  the 
PPI was suitable. For example, Ive nothing to show that Santander asked Mrs P whether 
she had any pre-existing or chronic health conditions  that the policy mightve  excluded.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs P given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs P, I do think  its more likely  than not the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs P had a need for the policy   it seems likely Mrs P would suffer a loss of income if 
she werent able to work  for an extended time.  I say this because her full work sick pay 
lasted less than 12 months. Also, the recommendations  page she signed  on the financial 
review from the time says much of Mrs Ps income included overtime  that would  stop if 
she were sick. By helping with mortgage costs, the PPI benefit wouldve helped Mrs P 
manage the consequences  of a fall in income,  making it less likely her home would be 
put at risk if she suffered unemployment  or couldnt  work for a time due to accident or 
sickness. Also, bearing in mind  shes told us she was financially stretched at the time, a 
loss of income mightve otherwise  put Mrs Ps finances under strain.
-Mrs P has said her husband couldve helped with the payments, but other peoples 
circumstances and ability  to help can change. Also, the financial review from the time of 
Ref: DRN13184455the sale says Mrs P had only her own income  to rely on and said she didnt know  how 
shed pay her mortgage and bills if she were sick and her work sick pay ended.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs P. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ps employment or occupation  which  wouldve made it difficult  for her 
to claim. She couldnt have claimed for future work absences  linked to her past health 
issues if the issue was controlled  rather than cured, or required medical  intervention long 
term, or had symptoms that recur and had needed medical attention  in the past.  If this 
didnt stop a claim, Mrs P could still only claim if before  the claim shed had no symptoms  
or medical intervention (including appointments)  for two years. But Ive seen  nothing  to 
suggest that Santander ought to have seriously entertained the possibility that Mrs P 
might suffer  significant work  absences in future  as a result  of her past injury.  Also,  shed 
never missed work for the health  issue shed had more than twenty years earlier. In view 
of all this, Im not persuaded the exclusion of claims from these past issues  made  the 
cover unsuitable  for Mrs P  given the cover it would  provide for other  work absences.
-Mrs P says she was financially stretched at the time,  but Ive seen  nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-While  the PPI would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each disability  or 
unemployment claim, and would only pay for disability if Mrs P were unable to do her 
own job or any other work  for which she was reasonably qualified, it still provided useful 
cover given  Mrs Ps circumstances and the loss of income she could  suffer if she were  
unable to work for a time due to accident, sickness or unemployment. As the PPI was to 
protect repayments relating to a mortgage on Mrs Ps home, I also bear in mind the 
potential consequences  should Mrs P have  become unable to make the repayments on 
loans secured against her house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mrs P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Santander was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs P was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs P would have  taken the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs P agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mrs P, Im not persuaded Santander did 
enough to present information about the PPI it was recommending in a way that was fair and 
reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mrs P all the information she needed  
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ref: DRN13184456Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs P has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Santander  ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mrs P? To what extent did she 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not she 
would have still taken  the policy, had Santander  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs P, I have found  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her. In those  circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mrs P has 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Santander had 
explained things  properly, Mrs P would have  acted differently or whether she would have 
taken the policy in any event.
Mrs P says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN13184457The evidence in this case suggests Mrs P had some interest in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised  her there  was a suitable product  she 
could buy that would  protect  her mortgage  payments  if she were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. But she made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she thought she was getting is 
not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ps circumstances that the 
PPI wasnt fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable  for her. I consider it more  likely than not she 
knew she would have  to pay something for the policy,  but it doesnt appear  Santander  told 
her the exact  premium  at the point she applied for the policy. That said,  it seems likely she 
was told the cost before the PPI started  the cost was on the mortgage key facts document, 
for example. If, when  she was informed of the cost or started  to pay it, the cost had been 
significantly different to what shed expected at the sale, she mightve  raised that at the time 
with Santander,  or reconsidered her decision.  Instead Mrs P continued with the PPI for a 
number of years. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs P wouldve found the cost unacceptable if shed been  given  
the exact figure at the point she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mrs P would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ps expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs P wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  or symptoms Mrs P knew  or ought to 
have known about at the PPI start date, or for which shed received advice, treatment or 
counselling from a registered medical practitioner  in the 12 months immediately before 
the PPI start date (unless - for two years before a claim - there  hadnt  been symptoms or 
medical interventions  or appointments to see a registered medical practitioner);
The policy excluded claims relating to chronic  conditions or associated  symptoms Mrs P 
had at or before the PPI start  a chronic condition  or symptom being one that continues 
indefinitely or is controlled rather than cured  or has symptoms that recur and have 
needed medical attention in the past or requires medical interventions  long-term;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
To be eligible  for disability, Mrs P had to be unable to do her own job, or any other  work  
for which she was reasonably qualified, as certified by a doctor; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage; and
Cover would end no later than when Mrs P turned 65 (earlier if she retired  earlier).
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs P pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking  the policy. 
Ref: DRN13184458But the evidence  about Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality.
Mrs P might not have  been able to claim  for future work absences  arising  from her past 
health issues. But Ive seen nothing to persuade me Mrs P wouldve given much weight in 
her decision  to the possibility of missing work  in future due to those  past issues. I say this 
bearing in mind Mrs P hasnt told us anything to suggest she hadnt fully recovered from her 
injury  and her other health issue was over 20 years earlier  and had never kept her off 
work. Past health issues aside, I havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mrs P wouldve been 
caught by any of the other significant exclusions   she was in permanent employment,  for 
example. With all this in mind, I think Mrs P still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs P 
from taking the policy,  Mrs P, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability  if she were not only unable to do her 
own job but unable  to do any other  work for which she was reasonably qualified, it mightve 
played into her thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given her pause for 
thought  although given  Mrs Ps circumstances, on balance I think  she wouldve still been  
interested in taking the cover.
Santander might not have  told Mrs P payment for any claim would be limited  to 12 months. 
This may have differed  from what she expected and mightve hoped for. But 12 months was 
longer than Mrs P wouldve received full sick pay and her redundancy entitlement was likely 
also significantly less than 12 months income. In those circumstances, I consider it likely 
she wouldve still thought  PPI that paid up to 12 monthly benefit  payments would benefit  her 
and help her manage if she were  unable to work in the circumstances the policy  covered.
I also say this bearing in mind Mrs P would apparently  also have lost overtime income if she 
were sick  and she didnt have any savings to fall back on either. By helping with mortgage 
related costs, the PPI benefit couldve helped  reduce Mrs Ps outgoings at what could be a 
difficult time if she were unemployed or too sick to work, helping reduce the likelihood  of her 
home being put at risk. Also, the PPI allowed for multiple  claims to be made.
Mrs P has complained she became ineligible to claim on the policy  during its term when she 
turned 60. Cover  under the policy terms ended at age 65, but in any case Im not persuaded 
better information about the age at which cover ended wouldve  changed  Mrs Ps decision to 
take the PPI. She was in her early fifties when  she took it, so I think it likely shed still have 
thought shed get some value out of having it - as it wouldve covered her for disability and 
unemployment for a reasonable  period before she turned 65, or even 60. Also Mrs Ps policy  
was cancelled when  she was still in her mid-fifties  anyway,  well before she turned 60 or 65.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs P would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for her, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
Ref: DRN13184459consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mrs P would have taken the policy in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible she wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken the PPI had she 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  she was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Santander should pay Mrs P compensation, as that would put her in a better position than 
she would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mrs P thinks  Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mrs P, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs P and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good 
Ref: DRN131844510faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1318445