K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B, who are represented by a third party, have complained that Nationwide  
Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them a single  premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in June  2001, at the same as they took out a loan.
 
background
Mr and Mrs B say the PPI was added to their loan without their knowledge and it wasnt  
explained to them. Only Mr B was covered.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy had been  mis-sold. Because  Mr and Mrs B disagree, 
their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and I have taken 
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B cant remember  how they bought the policy. But Nationwide has confirmed it 
was sold to them over the phone. From what Ive seen and also what  I know  about 
Nationwides telephone sales process at the time, I dont think  Nationwide recommended  
that Mr and Mrs B buy the policy. However,  whilst it didnt  have  to make sure that the PPI 
was suitable for their situation, Nationwide still had to ensure it gave them sufficient,  clear  
information that wasnt misleading.
 
Ive looked carefully  at information about the telephone sales process  used by Nationwide  at 
the time of the sale. Unfortunately, the actual  recording of the call is no longer available. 
Thats not surprising  after so much time. But Ive seen that for Nationwide telephone sales  at 
that time it was usually  made clear  that the loan could be taken with or without the policy. So 
I think Mr and Mrs B ought to have known  when they decided to buy the cover that they had 
a choice.
 
I should also point  out that when the loan agreement was sent to Mr and Mrs B after theyd 
bought the PPI they would have seen it described  as being optional. 
From what  Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs B were  eligible for the cover.  Also, I havent seen 
anything that makes me think they would be disadvantaged by any of the main exclusions.  
Mr B was entitled to receive around  6 months in benefits from his employer if he couldnt. 
Mrs B told us that she was also entitled to 6 months  employer benefits.  But if Mr B made a 
successful claim  for accident  or sickness, the policy  would pay out for as long as necessary, 
until the loan was repaid. And if the claim was for unemployment, the policy would pay out 
for up to 12 months. It would also pay out in addition  to any benefits Mr B might receive from 
his employer, as well as any other  sources of income that Mr and Mrs B might  have  had 
access to.
 
The loan agreement  set out the cost of the policy. So I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs B were 
aware of this when  they signed  the agreement. But other than that, Ive no way of knowing  
Ref: DRN12255062how or if the cost was explained to Mr and Mrs B during the sales  process. But I dont think 
that means I can make a finding that Mr and Mrs B werent told about the cost of the policy  
at the time, or that they couldnt afford  it. 
Ive also seen that the policy gave  a refund that was proportionate to the time the customer  
had held it, if it was cancelled early. Many  policies of this type sold at the time didnt give 
proportionate refunds.  
I can see its possible there  may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold to Mr and Mrs B. But, having looked  at the sale carefully, I think  Mr and Mrs B would still 
have decided to buy the policy if theyd been  better  advised and informed.
So I dont  think the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs B. Im sorry to disappoint  them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs  Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1225506