K820x#14Complaint
Miss B is unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP)  have  not met her cancellation claim 
under a policy of travel  insurance.
Background
On 2 August  2018 Miss B booked a holiday abroad and took out single trip travel 
insurance with AWP. She was due to go on 16 August 2018, but on 8 August 2018  
she was hospitalised  as a result of a manic episode  of bipolar  affective disorder. Miss 
B submitted a claim and is unhappy  AWP  havent  met it, and with the service shes  
received. AWP said Miss Bs claim is excluded under the terms of her policy as it is 
linked to a condition she was due to receive treatment for when she took the policy  
out. It apologised that some  emails were terse and for the delay in considering Miss 
Bs claim.
Our involvement so far
Miss B was unhappy  with AWPs response and brought her complaint  to this service.  
The investigator who considered her complaint  didnt uphold  it. He said Miss B 
cancelled her holiday due to bipolar affective disorder and was due to see a specialist 
about post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)  at the time she took out the policy. Miss 
Bs policy excludes certain  directly or indirectly linked claims, and the investigator 
concluded Miss Bs bipolar affective disorder and PTSD were  linked and so her claim 
was properly rejected.
Miss B was unhappy  with the investigators  opinion and has asked for an ombudsman 
to review her complaint. She referred  to, the medically unsound and insensitive 
labelling of two very different diagnoses into the "indirectly related clause. Miss B 
referred to the certificate her general practitioner  (GP) completed which said the 
conditions werent  linked. Finally, Miss B said although the reason given for her 
admission was bipolar affective disorder she was actually suffering from an underlying 
auto-immune blood disorder called TTP.
I issued my first provisional  decision  on 13 February  2020. I relied  on the medical  
evidence available  at the time and referred  to policy terms. I said that as AWP was 
relying on an exclusion it needed to show it properly applied. Miss Bs claim was for 
bipolar affective disorder  and she was waiting for an appointment for post-traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD) so AWP  needed to demonstrate PTSD was directly or indirectly 
linked to bipolar  affective disorder. According to the terms  of Miss Bs policy  there was 
an indirect link between  the conditions if having PTSD made Miss B more likely  to 
suffer bipolar  affective  disorder. As AWP didnt  provide any evidence that this was the 
case my provisional decision was that it should meet Miss Bs claim plus interest.
Miss B accepted  my provisional  decision, but AWP didnt.  It asked  if it could get further 
medical evidence  to better understand Miss Bs medical history when she booked the 
trip. After receiving this evidence AWP wrote to Miss B and confirmed it wouldnt meet  
her claim as it was linked to a condition she suffered from before she took the policy  
out. Miss B doesnt agree with AWP. She says AWPs rejection  focused on mental 
health conditions  which werent the reason for the cancellation. The trip was cancelled 
because of a then undiagnosed  condition that affected her mental presentation (TTP). 
Ref: DRN11881832Miss B also pointed out that she hadnt had any treatment for bipolar  affective disorder 
for years before the trip was booked. Finally, Miss B mentioned  the time it has taken 
AWP to assess  her claim. 
After reviewing the additional evidence,  I issued a second provisional decision on 3 
December 2020  and said;
Miss Bs claim hasnt  been met based  on policy terms which  say,
1.You will not be covered  for any directly or indirectly related  claims  (see note at the 
end of this section)  arising from the following if at the time of taking out this insurance  or 
booking your journey  (whichever  is later), you:
a.are being prescribed regular medication;
b.have received treatment for or had a consultation  with a doctor or hospital  specialist  
for any medical condition  in the past 12 months;
c.are being referred to, treated by or under  the care of a doctor  or a hospital specialist;
d.are awaiting treatment  or the results of any tests  or investigations;
Indirectly related claims
An indirectly related  claim means a medical problem that is more likely to happen  because  
of another medical problem you already have. Sometimes these conditions  can lead to the 
development of other conditions. For example if you:
suffer from asthma, chronic  obstructive pulmonary disease  or other lung disease, 
you are more  likely to get a chest infection.
have high blood pressure, high cholesterol  or diabetes, you are more  likely to 
have a heart  attack or a stroke.
have osteoporosis,  you are more likely  to break  or fracture  a bone.
have or have  had cancer, you are more  likely  to suffer with a secondary cancer.
I note Miss Bs comments  in relation to the actual reason for the cancellation of her holiday
and Ive reviewed  the discharge papers shes provided. Im persuaded the initial reason for
the admission and cancellation  of Miss Bs holiday was her bipolar affective disorder. She
was later transferred  to a different hospital to be treated for a condition  that was then
diagnosed as TTP. 
The GP certificate provided  in support of Miss Bs claim relates only to bipolar affective
disorder, the discharge  letter from the hospital  Miss B was transferred to states she was
admitted on 21 September 2018, and the letter Miss B provided from the community
psychiatric nurse says Miss B was hospitalised under the Mental  Health Act and her physical
health deteriorated so she was transferred. The diagnosis at Miss Bs review in January  
2019 was also bipolar affective disorder. I appreciate  this diagnosis was then removed from 
Miss Bs records in June  2019, but consider it fair to assess Miss Bs claim as one for bipolar 
rather than TTP. Im also mindful of the fact Ive not been provided  with any reasoning for the 
removal of the diagnosis. Miss Bs GP said it was removed by the mental health team and 
shes not yet received  a response  to her request for clarification. 
The terms of Miss Bs policy say that any claim directly linked to bipolar  affective disorder 
wont be covered if on 2 August 2018,  when  the trip was booked, and insurance taken out, 
Miss B was being  prescribed  regular medication, had received treatment in the 12 month 
period before, was referred or was being treated by a specialist or was awaiting treatment for 
Ref: DRN11881833bipolar affective disorder.  Turning to the linked condition element of the exclusion, Miss Bs 
claim also wont be covered if her hospital admission in August  2018  was more  likely to 
happen because  of another medical  condition she suffered at the time she booked the trip 
and took out insurance. 
My provisional decision was based on the fact Miss B was waiting for an appointment for 
PTSD when  she booked the trip and PTSD wasnt directly or indirectly linked to bipolar 
affective disorder. Miss Bs medical  history at the time of booking  the trip is now clearer. She 
registered with her GP practice in July 2018 and was referred to a mental  health  team.  Miss 
Bs GP noted that Miss B had some thoughts of suicide and self-harm,  but the main 
concerns were regarding  her PTSD  symptoms.  Miss B was assessed by the home treatment 
team on 17 July 2018 and started on medication  for depression and anxiety and referred for 
routine mental  health support which was due to take place on 8 August 2018. Miss B had a 
GP appointment on 31 July 2018, just days before  she booked  the trip, when  it was agreed 
she would  wait for a specialist appointment that had been arranged.  At the time Miss B 
booked her trip she was taking medication used to treat depression,  anxiety and insomnia. 
Miss Bs GP also confirmed Miss B was diagnosed with bipolar affective disorder in February  
2009 and the diagnosis  was referenced in clinic letters in January 2017. 
Taking all the evidence in to account Im satisfied  Miss B had a diagnosis of bipolar affective  
disorder when she booked her trip and was under medical review  and taking  medication  for 
mental health conditions directly  and indirectly  linked to the condition.  Whilst her GP noted 
there were no signs of a manic episode prior to Miss Bs hospitalisation its clear Miss B 
suffered from mental health conditions that made  her hospitalisation under the Mental Health 
Act more likely.
I turn now to the service provided  by AWP. Miss B started her claim at the very end of
October 2018 and got an answer at the end of January 2019. In the interim Miss B was
asked to provide  supporting evidence, including a GP certificate, to assess  the claim. Whilst
AWP could have given  a decision on the claim sooner,  I dont think the delay was
Unreasonable. There has been a delay  in obtaining medical information from Miss Bs GP 
following my provisional decision in February 2020,  but I cant  hold AWP responsible  for the 
fact it took Miss Bs GP a long time to reply. 
I realise this second  provisional decision will be disappointing to Miss B but given the 
evidence that is now available I cant reasonably ask AWP to meet  her claim. 
AWP didnt reply to my provisional  decision. Ms B responded and set out why she didnt 
accept what I said as follows:
-AWP didnt ask for her permission  to contact her GP with further questions.  
-AWP sent her letter rejecting her claim again  when it received information  from her 
GP rather than going through  this service. 
-Ms B felt the questions asked of the GP were leading and the information given 
wasnt accurate.
-She was given an inaccurate  diagnosis of bipolar from 2009,  which  is not medically 
linked to PTSD.
-When she booked the trip in 2018, she was on sick leave after raising a grievance at 
work. The holiday was to rest but her health declined due to her undiagnosed TTP. 
Ref: DRN11881834-Although she was hospitalised  under the Mental Health Act, she was immediately 
transferred to another hospital because of symptoms that were then diagnosed as 
TTP.
-TTP can affect mental health. Ms B sent links to demonstrate this.
-Ms B provided a clinic letter  from January 2019  giving  a primary diagnosis of TTP 
and a secondary diagnosis of bipolar. The letter went on to say, It is recognised that 
many people  with TTP do get neurocognitive  problems following their initial  illness 
and it is possible this may be contributing to her current symptoms.
-Ms B also provided a letter from her mental  health team dated  December 2020 
saying she has been under the care of mental  health services for a few years and 
had some admissions.  The letter stated Ms B is reviewed by a consultant every  few 
months and has regular contact with psychiatric nurses.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as I set out in my provisional decision of 3 December  2020, and for the same 
reasons.
I still consider that the reason for the cancellation  of Ms Bs trip was her pre-existing bipolar  
affective disorder. Although Ms B has said the real reason was TTP I note Ms B was 
admitted to hospital  under the Mental Health Act on 8 August 2018  and wasnt  transferred to 
another hospital until 21 September 2018.  The discharge sheet from the second hospital 
also says Ms B was reviewed by the psychiatry team  several times during her admission. 
Ms Bs claim is excluded by the terms of her policy, which say AWP wont  cover a claim for a 
directly or indirectly related condition  if Ms B had consulted her GP in the 12 months before 
the policy was taken out or was waiting  for specialist treatment at the time she booked  her 
trip. Ms B saw her GP in the 12 months  before she took out insurance,  including  an 
appointment days before. She was also waiting for a specialist  appointment in respect of her 
symptoms. 
Even if I accept Ms B experienced symptoms of undiagnosed TTP before her planned trip 
and cancelled it because  of these symptoms, I still couldnt reasonably  ask AWP to meet  her 
claim. This is because  Ms B consulted  her GP about these symptoms and had been referred 
to a specialist  before she took the policy out. 
Ive reviewed the request for medical information AWP sent to Ms Bs GP (a copy  of which  
has been provided to Ms B) and consider reasonable questions  were asked and dont agree 
the questions  were leading. The information  provided was taken from Ms Bs 
contemporaneous medical records and so I think its reasonable to accept it is accurate.  
When AWP requested further medical  information it provided a form of consent previously 
signed by Ms B on 1 November 2018.  It said,
I authorise any doctor, hospital or other  organisation or person having any records or any 
information concerning my medical  history  or treatment to furnish such  records  or 
information to Allianz  Global  Assistance.  I understand that in executing  this authorisation I 
waive the right for such information/records to be privileged. I am also aware that such  
information/records are relevant in the evaluation of my claim and that non-submission could 
Ref: DRN11881835prejudice my claim. A photocopy of this authorisation shall be considered as effective and 
valid as the original.
The authorisation Ms B signed relates  to the claim and did not set out an end date, so I think 
AWP acted reasonably in using  it. 
I agree  that after reviewing the additional medical  information it would have been prudent for 
AWP to have contacted  us with the evidence as this service was already involved in Ms Bs 
case. I dont believe  AWP intended  to cause  any upset though nor do I find emailing Ms B 
with the outcome was akin to bullying.
Overall, whilst Im sympathetic to the circumstances surrounding Ms Bs claim, I consider 
AWP acted reasonably in not meeting it. 
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1188183