K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy that was added  to his 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mr C successfully applied for a credit card with Lloyds in December 1998. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage.  So I cannot be sure how or when  the PPI was sold to 
Mr C but I do know  it was sold at some point between December 1998 (when the card was 
sold to him) and January  2000.
The PPI that was sold to Mr C was designed  to protect his monthly card repayments if he 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Mr C says Lloyds mis-sold the policy. He says he had no idea PPI was on his account  and it 
was added without  his consent.  
An adjudicator looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr C 
disagrees and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Mr C nor Lloyds can give me much information 
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Mr C has said about how the policy was sold  that it was added  
without his consent. But it has been very difficult for me to understand how this would 
have happened  with so little information  available about this sale. And in the absence 
of relevant documentation, a more detailed recollection or further information to 
support what Mr C has said,  I cannot  fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy  
was sold as he suggests it was. I would need  to see more  information to support  
what Mr C has said to conclude otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mr C to have the policy but even if 
it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for him anyway. Any claim under the 
policy more likely  could be paid for up to 12 months.  Mr C would have found the 
benefit from the cover provided useful in an extended time of need (on top of any sick 
pay and other provisions). Mr C also wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys  
main exclusions. The policy  also seemed  affordable for Mr C.
Ref: DRN12782632I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Mr Cs decision to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. That said and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1278263