K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says Yorkshire Building Society  mis-sold  her a mortgage  payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2000 in connection with a
mortgage arranged  by Mrs O. The policy covered  Mrs O if she couldnt work
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs O disagreed  with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think Yorkshire Building Society recommended the
policy to Mrs O, so the key question I need  to consider is:
-Did Yorkshire  Building Society give Mrs O information that was clear,  fair and
not misleading in order  to put her in a position  where she could  make  an informed
 choice about the insurance she was buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mrs O is worse
off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not taking out
the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs O says she didnt know the PPI had been added  to her account, and that she didnt 
agree to buy it. Ive noted everything Mrs O has said.  
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mrs O and Yorkshire 
Building Society when  the policy was sold. And Yorkshire Building  Society  hasnt been able 
to provide much evidence  from the point of sale, as these events took place  many  years 
ago. Thats not surprising, and its similar to some other cases  Ive seen.
I understand that the policy was free for the first six months. I think its likely that Yorkshire  
Building Society wouldve written to Mrs O at the end of the free period, to find out whether 
or not she wanted  to continue with the cover. On balance, I think its unlikely that Yorkshire 
Building Society wouldve maintained the PPI on Mrs Os account if she hadnt agreed to buy 
it when the free period  ended.
Ref: DRN10293702So without any additional evidence to support what Mrs O has told me, I havent been able 
to safely conclude that Yorkshire  Building Society  didnt  tell her that the policy  was optional.
There is nothing to suggest that Mrs O didnt satisfy  the eligibility requirements of the policy
when it was taken  out. And her circumstances dont  suggest she wouldve  been caught by 
any conditions limiting  the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed 
people or people with pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont think  she needed better
information about the things the policy might not have covered.
As Ive already  said, I understand the policy was free for the first six months. I think its likely 
that Yorkshire Building Society wouldve told Mrs O how much she would have to pay to 
continue the cover. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information  about  the policys cost wouldve changed Mrs Os decision to 
buy it.
Yorkshire Building Society didnt advise Mrs O to take out the policy, so it didnt have to 
check whether she had any alternative  means  of covering her mortgage repayments  if she 
couldnt work. Mrs O had to decide  that for herself.
But even though she says she was entitled to employer sick pay, the policy  wouldve paid 
out in addition to those  benefits. Having the policy in place  wouldve  meant  Mrs O could use 
her sick pay to cover other expenses.  So I think Mrs O wouldve had some  use for the policy,  
despite her existing arrangements.
In summary,  I think Mrs O agreed to take out the cover (knowing she didnt have to).
And given  the policy provided broadly what I think she expected  when she agreed to it, I
dont think she would  have made  a different decision (and decided against taking the policy
out) if she had been better informed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1029370