K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc told her she would  get 0% interest  on her new credit 
card account  for 24 months, but then changed  its mind.
background
Miss B said that she took out a credit card account  in a branch of Lloyds. She said she was 
told she would get 0% interest  on the card for purchases for 24 months. But then the card 
came, and it didnt have  a 0% offer. Miss B said she contacted the branch, and was 
reassured that the offer would be put on her card. She said the branch had confirmed this in 
writing. Miss B was reassured by that, and used the card to pay for an expensive  holiday. 
Miss B said that shed  found out now that the card isnt 0% after all. Lloyds has said that it 
will offer her three months at 0% interest,  to allow her to find a good offer somewhere else. It 
will pay the costs of any balance transfer  she does. And it will remove evidence of the credit  
searches for this card application from her credit file, so that this doesnt  impact  on the 
chances of her getting a new card. It has also offered her £150 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset  this issue  has caused.  
Miss B said that she wanted the 24 months 0% interest offer shed  been  told she was 
getting. She said that she wouldnt have  spent such a lot on a holiday if shed realised  she 
wasnt getting that offer.
Lloyds said that it wouldnt do that. It said that would never  have been available to her as an 
existing customer.  That offer was only for new customers.
Our investigator said that he wouldnt make Lloyds put this 0% offer on Miss Bs account. He 
wanted to put Miss B back in the position  she wouldve been in if no mistake had been 
made. And he said because this offer was never  open to Miss B, then she wouldve had to 
look elsewhere anyway.  What Lloyds was offering now meant that she could do that, at no 
cost to herself, and with some compensation for the inconvenience involved. For that 
reason, he thought that Lloydss offer was fair. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said she wouldnt have bought the expensive holiday if she hadnt 
been given the 0% offer. She was worried about  how she would pay it off when that period 
ended. And she didnt  think  she should have to spend her time looking for another  offer,  
when this was Lloydss fault.  Our investigator  didnt change his mind,  so this case was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-I explained that I had asked some  further  questions of Lloyds. My understanding of the 
case then was that the offer of 0% was only open to new customers,  and that there were 
no technical obstacles at Lloyds to putting a 0% offer on Miss B's card.  
-Our investigator said that this service would like to put Miss B back in the position that 
she wouldve been in, if Lloyds hadnt  made a mistake. That is our usual approach.  But I 
thought that would  be difficult  to do here,  because  Miss B had spent a large amount of 
Ref: DRN16728542money on a holiday,  which she says she simply wouldnt  have spent if she hadnt been  
told she could have  24 months to pay that off, at 0% interest.  
-Lloyds said that Miss B could get a different offer somewhere else.  And its clarified that 
it doesnt think theres any reason why she couldnt get this. But that still didnt put 
Miss B in the position  she wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt been made. If Miss B 
were to make a new card application now, she would be applying  with a rather  larger 
existing credit card debt on her credit  file, which she ran up after she thought she had a 
good deal with Lloyds. She just wasnt in the same  position  as she was before Lloyds 
made this mistake.  
-In this case, I thought that a different approach  would be appropriate. Lloyds made a 
mistake, and told Miss B that she could have 0% on her credit card. Miss B immediately 
spent a large sum of money on the card, much more  than she had spent on her card 
before. So I thought  she relied  on what Lloyds said, and was going to be worse  off now if 
she didnt get 0% on that spending  for 24 months. 
-For those reasons, I thought it was fair to ask Lloyds to allow Miss B to repay that 
spending at 0% for 24 months from the date the card was activated. 
-But Miss B had since found out that there  was a mistake. So it didnt seem fair to allow 
her to continue to rely on Lloydss mistake for the next 24 months.  She asked Lloyds 
about the interest rate at the end of July, and Lloyds confirmed that there had been a 
mistake in a letter  dated 7 August.  So I thought that Lloyds could charge Miss B interest 
on this card from 8 August onwards. 
-I understood that Lloyds actually gave Miss B a card with an initial  promotional  interest 
rate, although not as low as 0%, and not for as long as 24 months. So I said that any 
spending from 8 August  onwards  could  be charged at the promotional rate, for the 
promotional period, that was set out on Miss Bs first Platinum card statement dated  
24 July 2018,  and thereafter  at the full rates applicable to this card.
-Miss B told us that this issue has caused  her and her family a considerable amount of 
stress. But Lloyds had already paid Miss B £150  in compensation. I thought that was 
enough to make  up for the distress  and inconvenience that its mistake had caused.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds said that it couldnt do what I had suggested, and that it didnt think it should have to. 
Miss B contacted us to find out when this case was going to be resolved.
my second  provisional decision
I considered what both sides had said in response  to my first provisional  decision. And I 
changed my mind about the appropriate  resolution to this complaint. So I then issued a 
second provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I still proposed  to uphold it, 
but was suggesting a different award. This is what I said then: 
-Lloyds told us that just couldnt put a part of Miss Bs card balance  on an interest waiver 
for 24 months. And it said that it wouldnt be part of its policy  to put a permanent waiver  
on the full balance, which Id also said was unnecessary.
Ref: DRN16728543-I didnt want to make an award  in this case that Lloyds wasnt actually able to comply 
with. That wouldnt help either side. 
-So I asked Lloyds  to work out instead how much  interest  Miss B would pay for 24 
months from the date of her card upgrade to platinum,  for the whole of the spending she 
made on this card between the card upgrade and 7 August 2018,  inclusive.  I said that 
Lloyds should  work  this out on the basis that Miss B would make her minimum  payments  
during this time. I didnt think it would be fair to work this out on the basis of any larger  
repayments which have  already been made during this time. I thought that Miss B had 
probably been paying as much as she could  during this time, because she was worried 
that she was going  to be charged interest  on a debt that I thought she had reasonably 
understood would be interest free.
-But Lloyds said it couldnt do that either. It said that it didnt have the functionality to do 
this, considering how its accounting  system works.  It also said that it felt this was 
unnecessary, remembering a customer should not look to profit from a bank error. It said 
it would  question what would  happen  to any amount paid. What  would there  be to stop a 
balance transfer  away being done if it refunded  an amount?
-Lloyds sent us information  on how payments are applied, which show that they are 
applied to the highest interest rate first. Lloyds  said I was asking it to ring-fence the 
purchases on the card between  11 July 2018,  which was Miss Bs upgrade date, and 7 
August 2018.  And I was asking it to ignore any larger payments made between these 
dates and base  the calculation purely  on minimum payments having been  made.  But 
Lloyds said this was impossible based  on the payment allocation it applies.
-Lloyds also wanted to add that Miss B had also continued to make  similar  payments, 
above the minimum required in the last few months. So that meant it was still prevented 
from doing this calculation.
-Lloyds said that what it was being  asked  to do was simply not possible, and in its opinion 
not required.
-It was clear that Lloyds felt strongly  that its proposal was sufficient to make up for what 
had gone wrong in this case.  It didnt  think it should have to do more than to provide a 
short interest free period in which Miss B could  transfer her balance to the best deal she 
can find elsewhere. 
-Id explained  why I didnt think that Miss B could be put back in the same  position she 
was in. But Lloyds  would also be aware that our service has to have regard to the 
relevant law when  it reaches a decision on what is a fair and reasonable outcome to a 
case. And there were well-established legal principles on misrepresentation and mis-
statement which underpinned my decision. 
-Lloyds never disputed that it made  a mistake. It told Miss B she could have 0% interest 
for 24 months on her card if she upgraded. She did that. She relied  on what  Lloyds said.  
She spent some  money.  I thought it was fair, and in line with the legal principles  Id 
mentioned, to make sure that Miss B didnt  end up worse  off because  she had to pay 
interest on that money. Thats  why I didnt think it was enough to say that Miss B could  
try to transfer this debt to somewhere else, where she might  get a better  deal. I thought 
that Lloyds had to make sure that Miss B didnt pay any interest on this money.  
Ref: DRN16728544-Id suggested  two ways that Lloyds could do that. It told me that the first option wasnt 
technically possible. It couldnt  isolate that spending on her card,  and make  that interest 
free. And it also told me it couldnt  work  out how much interest Miss B would pay on that 
particular amount of her spending,  over the next 24 months.  I realised there were a large  
number of variables,  which might  affect how much interest  Miss B paid. That meant 
Lloyds didnt think it could come up with an accurate figure for what  Miss B would pay. 
-But I still thought  that it was important  to make sure that Miss B didnt end up worse  off, 
because she relied on what Lloyds said, when it told her she was getting an interest free 
credit card.  And I still thought it was Lloyds responsibility to do that. 
-I thought about  whether I should make some rough calculations myself  of the interest  
that Miss B may be charged. Then I could suggest  a cash award  in this case, to make up 
for the interest that Lloyds will charge Miss B over the 24 months.  But Lloyds said that 
Miss B could then just take the money,  and transfer her debt away from Lloyds. 
-I sought to explore  some options  with Lloyds, and it hadnt  been able to work with those, 
for technical reasons. But I still thought that it wasnt fair or reasonable for redress  for 
Miss B to fall short of what she may end up paying,  because  Lloyds wasnt  technically 
able to provide  for something that would be cheaper for it. 
-Lloyds has also said that it could, if required,  put a complete  waiver of interest on 
Miss Bs card until 2020. It would then need to manually remove  that waiver. I thought 
that had become the only option that was fair to both sides.  
-I appreciated that this would give Miss B the benefit of a mistake  made  by Lloyds  even 
after shed realised  that there was a mistake. As Lloyds has noted, that goes  further that 
I would  have preferred  to go in this case. But it seemed to be the only option which 
ensured that Miss B wouldnt have to pay interest for her existing debt, and that Lloyds 
didnt end up giving Miss B a cash sum to refund interest she was never actually 
charged, because  she could  just transfer  her debt away.  
-I also noted that a 24 month interest free period was something that Lloyds was already 
offering to attract new customers at the time that Miss B took out her new card. If Miss B 
didnt have an existing  account,  she wouldve been  given that offer.  So I didnt think it 
was unreasonable to say that Lloyds  should  now provide that to Miss B, in these  
circumstances.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds contacted me to raise questions about the award I was proposing,  and I confirmed 
that the award I was proposing was as set out above. It has now said that it will accept what 
Ive proposed. And Miss B has also confirmed that shes willing  to accept this revised award.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind. Ill now 
proceed to make the award I proposed in my second provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN16728545my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must refund any interest  it has charged Miss B on 
her credit card account since 11 July 2018, and must place Miss Bs credit card account on 
an interest waiver for 24 months, until 10 July 2020.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1672854