K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that he suffered a great deal of stress and inconvenience as well as loss of 
earnings because  of TSB Bank plcs IT issues.
background
On 7 September 2018 Mr L requested a replacement card from TSB due to fraudulent  
activity on his card. He eventually received the card a couple of weeks  later on 21 
September  it should have arrived within 5/7 working  days. But this card didnt work  
properly. Mr L spent  around three hours  in the branch the following day trying to figure  out 
what was wrong with the card. It transpired  that the card had an incorrect  expiry  date.  TSB 
said they would send him a replacement card and that it would be couriered to him for 24th 
September. Mr L says he waited all day but this card didnt arrive.  When he eventually 
managed to speak  to someone at TSB about what was happening, they said they were  
unsure if the card had been  sent and said they would send it again. The card arrived on 2 
October but still had an incorrect  expiry  date. He then had a meeting with the manager  and 
after various communications  back and forth he was told he would  get the card within 5 
working days - it had been ordered  on 4 October. The card eventually  arrived but after the 
said 5 working days  on 12 October. However, there was no PIN sent.  The PIN arrived on 17 
October. So altogether Mr L says he was without  a full working card from 7 September  until 
17 October.
Mr L says due to not having his card from 7 September to 17 October 2018 he couldnt  go to 
work as he worked  far away from home and couldnt  book his ticket or accommodation. 
Other than being  able to borrow some money  from his girlfriend, he didnt have anyone else 
he could borrow money from.  As a result of not being able to work Mr L says he has lost out 
on earnings and is suffering  from financial  difficulties which  meant he missed  two mortgage 
payments, had to cancel  a holiday and couldnt celebrate his daughters birthday as he had 
promised. He was unable to pay for his car insurance, phone bill or internet. His phone line 
and internet were  cut off which meant he couldnt contact the bank or access  the internet. 
And he says he was getting  job offers  but he couldnt take them up because  he couldnt 
afford to get to work.  He tried to extend  his overdraft facility but was refused. He explains 
how this has affected his morale and self-esteem as well as the rest of the family.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ls complaint and recommended that TSB pay him £500 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to him. However, our adjudicator 
didnt think TSB should compensate Mr L for loss of earnings.
Mr L didnt agree with our adjudicator and wants TSB to compensate him for his loss of 
earnings as well as the distress and inconvenience  caused to him. So the complaint  has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome  reached by the adjudicator. I think £500 for 
distress and inconvenience is a fair amount of compensation in the particular circumstances  
of this case and I dont think its fair to ask TSB to pay Mr L for his loss of earnings. I 
Ref: DRN10829032appreciate Mr L will be disappointed  with this outcome but it is of course up to Mr L whether 
he accepts or rejects my decision. I will now explain why Ive reached this outcome.
As already mentioned,  Mr L says its because of TSB that he was unable to work and so 
they should compensate him for his loss of earnings  and the financial stress that resulted. 
However, I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude that it was solely down  to TSB that 
Mr L was unable to work  between  7 September and 17 October.
Mr L has provided us with evidence of what his earnings were  in the period leading up to a 
week before  his card was cancelled. He has said we can average  these  out to work out how 
much he has lost out on during the time he didnt have his card.  But I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr L was still working at the point  at which his card was cancelled.  The last 
remittance advice Mr L has provided  us with is for week ending 31 August with a payment 
date of 7 September. Given that his issues didnt arise until 7 September,  I would have 
expected to see a further remittance advice up until that date with a payment date for the 
following week if he was still working at that point.  We have also asked  Mr L for a copy of the 
contract or agreement which would  show he had ongoing work  commitments which  he was 
unable to carry out. Mr L hasnt provided  this evidence.
So I cant say that Mr L was actually working on a job at the point his card was cancelled or 
that he had booked upcoming work that he couldnt  carry out. Which  means  I cant  say its 
because of TSB that he lost out on earnings.
However, Mr L has also said that he couldnt take up other jobs he was offered because  of 
TSB. Again I havent seen any evidence which shows  me that Mr L did turn down jobs 
and/or how much he would have  expected  to receive for these jobs. But even if he had 
provided this evidence, I would still need to consider whether its fair and reasonable to ask 
TSB to pay Mr L compensation for potential loss of earnings. I dont  think  it is. This is 
because I think Mr L could have  made  other reasonable arrangements  to access  his funds 
which would have allowed him to continue working. I appreciate Mr L did get to a position 
where he no longer  had sufficient funds he could access because  he wasnt earning. But I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude  that this is because  of TSB. 
This doesnt mean that I dont  think Mr L was distressed or inconvenienced. I dont  doubt  
that Mr L went through a lot of inconvenience and trouble trying to get a working debit  card. 
He had to wait a substantially  longer period of time then he would have had to. He had to 
end up going to the branch repeatedly to withdraw  money as there  was no other way of him 
being able to do so without a working  debit card. He spent hours of his time trying to get the 
debit card. And he couldnt pay some of his bills as he should have been able to because  of 
the incorrect expiry date. So I think its fair for TSB to pay Mr L £500 - what we consider to 
be an award in the higher region - for the distress and inconvenience caused  to him. I 
havent seen evidence of any charges Mr L had to pay due to late payments and so I havent  
asked TSB to refund charges. 
Ive concluded  that I dont  think  its because  of TSB that Mr L was unable  to work, so I dont 
think its fair to ask TSB to pay Mr L for the loss of earnings or his missed mortgage  
payments or for any other financial difficulties Mr L suffered because he wasnt  at work.  
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint to the extent that TSB Bank Plc should  pay Mr L £500 in total as 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to him if they havent already. If 
Ref: DRN10829033they have paid an amount for distress  and inconvenience already relating to this complaint 
then they can take this off the £500  I have awarded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1082903