K820x#14complaint
A club, P, have complained about  the way Barclays  Bank UK PLC dealt with a number of 
disputed transactions.
what happened
The complaint has been led by the clubs chairman, who Ill refer to as Mr C. He says that 
the former  treasurer, who Ill refer to as Mr T, misappropriated  the clubs funds.
In June 2014, Mr T was added to the clubs banking mandate by the other two signatories.  
In April 2016, the signatories  applied for Mr T to have a debit card. They  agreed  the card 
would use sole authorisation rather than needing two signatories  to verify each payment.
Mr C says Mr T started  misusing the clubs funds around March  2018.
On 27 December 2018, Mr C went to a branch and told them Mr T had been  misusing  the 
funds. At that point,  Mr C was not authorised to use the account. Barclays say they told Mr C 
no action could be taken  as he wasnt an authorised party, and he wouldve needed to 
contact the other signatories. Mr C says he was given the impression that Barclays would 
sort things  out. He says it wasnt possible to contact one signatory, and he wouldnt contact 
the other as they were on holiday at the time.
On 5 January  2019, Mr C went back to the branch with a signatory. They  removed Mr T from 
the mandate and added Mr C.
In the meantime, Mr T had withdrawn  £940  in cash.  Mr C says that this was not used for the 
benefit of the club.
The club,  P, complained  to Barclays. They  questioned  whether  Mr Ts debit card had been 
set up and used  with the correct mandate. They felt Barclays shouldve noticed  something 
was wrong when the account had less money than usual. And they thought Barclays  were  
responsible for the £940 of cash withdrawals by not blocking the account  in December 2018.
Barclays disagreed.  They  said the debit card had been set up and used with the proper 
mandate. They said theyd told Mr C they couldnt  help since he wasnt an authorised  party, 
and had told him to speak  to the other two signatories.
P came to our service. Our investigator looked into things  independently,  and didnt uphold 
the complaint.  While she sympathised  with P, she explained that the disputed transactions 
had been made by the authorised accountholder  in line with the accounts mandate.  She felt 
it was reasonable  for Barclays to require an authorised  signatory  to change or block the 
account, rather than act on unsupported claims by an unauthorised third party.
P asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaints been  passed to me.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN17597792While I know this will disappoint P, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator, and for much the same reasons.
Barclays are liable to refund unauthorised  transactions. At the time, these disputed 
transactions were  authorised by Ps treasurer,  who was an authorised signatory  having 
been added  to Ps mandate  by the other signatories,  and who was using the accounts 
genuine card and security  details.
Im satisfied from Barclays records that Mr T was an authorised  signatory at the time of the 
transactions; that Mr C was not an authorised party until January 2019; and that the debit 
card was set up by Ps signatories to be able to be used by one person at a time.
I understand that Mr C feels Barclays shouldve realised something was wrong when the 
balance was lower  than usual. But like our investigator explained, there were any number of 
explanations for a lower balance or a bounced cheque.  And Barclays were Ps bank, not 
their book-keeper. It was not possible  for Barclays to know  whether the disputed payments 
were being  used for the clubs benefit or not. So far as Barclays could see, the disputed  
transactions were  made by an authorised signatory, with the correct  authority, using  the 
correct method.
I also understand Mr C came out of the branch in December  2018 feeling that things would 
be sorted out. On the other hand, Barclays contact notes say: informed no action can be 
taken regarding this, will have to go through the correct channels, because Mr C was not 
authorised to use the account.
Both parties  seem to accept they discussed getting in touch  with the other  two signatories. 
Mr C says he told Barclays that one signatory was not contactable and the other  was 
unavailable on holiday. But if thats the case,  its difficult to see what Barclays could 
reasonably have done. Im afraid  the fact remains that Mr C was an unauthorised third party,  
and didnt have  any authority to block or change  the account. There  was not a mandate for 
Barclays to act on his instructions.  And Barclays had no substantial evidence  to show  that 
something was wrong  at that stage,  there  was no police report, the other  two signatories 
had not raised  any concerns, the account was being  used  with the correct authority, and it 
wasnt possible for Barclays  to know what Mr T was spending money on. It seems 
reasonable for Barclays not to have  acted on the unverified claims of an unauthorised third 
party, especially  if the third party said they wouldnt contact the authorised signatories.
Its unclear what was or wasnt  said in the branch. But even if I accept that Barclays  couldve 
made it clearer to Mr C that he needed the authorised signatories to block  the account,  its 
difficult to see what wouldve significantly changed. Mr C himself  has said that the other 
signatories were not available  at the time.
The fact also remains that our service doesnt  have the power to decide  the dispute  between 
Ps current and former signatories. We cant compel witnesses to testify,  and cant  verify 
whether Mr T was spending  money  for the clubs benefit or not. So at this stage, I cant  even 
be sure that Ps funds  were misused  in the first place. I understand P is pursuing Mr T 
through the other  relevant channels, and that sounds appropriate in the circumstances.
From what  Mr C has told us, I understand that P does good work,  and that it may have been 
the victim of an internal misuse of funds. And so P does have my sympathy. But for the 
reasons I explained  above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to hold Barclays  
liable for the payments in dispute.
Ref: DRN17597793my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1759779