K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card.
background
Mrs P took out a store card in May 2001  by completing a leaflet in store.  At the same time 
she was sold a PPI policy to cover her card repayments if she couldnt work due to accident  
or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ps complaint  should  be upheld  because FICL couldnt provide 
evidence to show Mrs P was given a choice about buying the policy  or that she agreed to 
buy it.
FICL disagree. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
FICL had to make sure Mrs P understood she had a choice in taking the PPI and that she 
agreed to have it added to her store card account.  FICL say that Mrs P wouldve only had 
PPI applied to her account  if she selected  to take it on her store card application. But FICL 
havent been able to provide me a copy of Mrs Ps application so I cant see how the policy  
was described on the application form or that Mrs P selected to take it.
FICL say documentation  confirming the sale of a PPI policy wouldve also been  sent to the 
address Mrs P provided  to it and that this provided  full details of the insurance and if Mrs P 
hadnt agreed to take out the policy she could cancel at this time.
But I dont think telling  someone they had the right to cancel the policy  shows me that she 
knew the policy was optional and agreed  to take out the policy at the point of sale.
So based  on the information  Ive seen, I cant say its more  likely Mrs P agreed to take the 
policy and it follows that I uphold her complaint. 
what FICL should do to put things  right
FICL should put Mrs P in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs P would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
Ref: DRN15497212premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs P owes  and what  she would 
have owed.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs P would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs P 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs P paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs P 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 15% a 
year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs P what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint against  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited  and direct it pays the fair compensation  outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1549721