K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
when making an amendment to her bank accounts.  
background 
Mrs C held a number  of accounts and products with Halifax with her late husband. When he 
sadly passed away she went  into a Halifax branch  to remove  his name from the accounts. 
Mrs C says that she was told someone  from Halifax would call her to discuss  the removal  
but this didnt happen. She then called a number of times and emailed the branch with no 
reply. Mrs C then received a phone  call from Halifax and was told that the person calling 
hadnt been notified of her late husbands passing. 
Some weeks after Mrs Cs first visit to the Halifax branch, she received a letter  to say that 
her late husbands  name  had been  removed from four of the accounts held with Halifax. 
Mrs C then visited the same branch a further  two times to ask why she had not received a 
response to her initial request. 
Mrs C complained to Halifax about  the service she had received. She said she wanted to be 
compensated for the three visits she made  to the branch and for the phone calls and emails  
that had not been responded to.
Halifax looked into the complaint but didnt initially uphold it. It said that the investment held 
with Halifax was updated when Mrs C asked for it to be but due to the way it was set up, 
would continue in joint names - and all of the bank accounts held with Halifax were in her 
sole name. It later re-opened  the complaint and reviewed the service it had provided again. 
Following its review the complaint was upheld. It offered Mrs C £400  compensation for the 
failure in its service.
Mrs C remained  unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  After speaking to 
Halifax, it agreed to increase Mrs Cs payment to £500.  Our investigator put this to Mrs C but 
she didnt agree this was enough and asked that it be increased to £600. As our investigator  
didnt think the amount  should be increased to £600, the complaint has been passed  to me 
to issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im very sorry to hear of to Mrs Cs loss, she must be going through  a very difficult  
time. 
Its clear from the information  we have received from both parties  that there has been a 
failure in the service Halifax  provided Mrs C  both parties agree  with this. What  I need to 
look at is whether what Halifax has agreed  to pay Mrs C in compensation is in line with what 
I would consider fair in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN14837522As neither party has disputed that Mrs C made  the visit to the branch a number of times,  or 
the phone  calls or emails  sent, I wont go into detail regarding this point. What is clear is that 
the poor service  provided by Halifax came  at what was an already difficult time for 
Mrs C. 
The amount  of compensation fairly payable is a matter for my judgement and Ive taken into 
account our published guidance about  this. Mrs C hasnt provided  any additional information 
to show the costs involved in visiting the branch  - or making the calls,  so my investigation 
and award is based on what we are aware  of, the stress and inconvenience  Mrs C has told 
us this caused her. Having looked  at this in its entirety, Im satisfied that £500 is a fair and 
reasonable amount to compensate her for this. 
I understand Mrs Cs daughter also suffered  similar  inconvenience to Mrs C when she visited 
the branch. As shes not party to the account, Im afraid I cant  consider her when  making an 
award. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mrs C a total of £500  
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1483752