K820x#14complaint
Mr E is complaining that Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) charged him a 
cancellation fee after he had to cancel  his car insurance policy  when he changed his car.
background
In April 2018 Mr E took out a car insurance policy through Brightside  a broker   to insure 
his car. In June 2018 Mr E called Brightside to say hed changed  his car and asked to 
change the car on the policy. But Brightside said that his insurer  wouldnt accept the new car 
so the call handler said that theyd have to cancel the existing  policy and set up a new one. 
The call handler said that Brightside would waive the cancellation  fee if he took out a new 
policy through Brightside.
Mr E cancelled the insurance policy and Brightside said that it had waived the cancellation  
fee. But the call handler explained that there was an outstanding balance of £164.66 on the 
existing policy. And she said that Mr E would have to pay this balance before she could 
arrange a new policy. Mr E said that he wasnt  in a position to pay this.
Mr E later complained to Brightside  as he thinks its unfair  he was charged  a cancellation fee 
when he didnt ask to cancel the policy. Brightside  said that it was acting as a broker.  So it 
said that it didnt  set out what premium Mr E had to pay. And it said that its terms of business 
set out that any change  made to the policy mid-term may result  in an additional premium  or 
the policy being cancelled, as in this instance.  It said that Mr E would need  to contact the 
insurer directly  if he wasnt happy with the amount the insurer  charged.
Since then,  Brightside  said that it contacted the insurer who advised  that the amount Mr E 
was charged for the time on cover was incorrect. And it said that it had charged £108.03 
more than it should have done.  So it reduced  the amount Mr E owed to £72.18. Brightside 
also said that it didnt  charge  the £60 cancellation fee it said it was entitled to charge.
Mr E said he remained  unhappy  for the following reasons:
1.He didnt ask to cancel the policy;
2.Hed paid all his monthly  premiums;
3.He hadnt  made  any claims on the policy.
So he asked Brightside to write  off the outstanding balance. Brightside  remained of the belief 
it had acted fairly, so Mr E referred his complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that Brightside was entitled to cancel 
the policy and he thought  that the amount he was being charged was correct under the 
terms of Mr Es contract. 
Mr E didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. He said that the policy  didnt specify that there 
would be fees if the policy as cancelled.  And he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN11696772Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr E doesnt  dispute that the policy had to be cancelled,  but he thinks  its unfair that he still 
has a sum to pay after the cancellation as hed already  paid his monthly  payments.
I should first set out that Brightside was acting as a broker.  So it wasnt  responsible  for 
setting out the amount of the annual premium Mr E had to pay for the time insured  that 
was the responsibility  of the insurer. The insurer told Brightside that it wasnt  willing to insure 
Mr Es new car. So Mr E was required  to cancel the insurance policy. I can understand  why 
Mr E is unhappy with whats happened. But I have to look at whether I think  Brightside  has 
acted unreasonably. I dont think it has.
I note Mr E has queried why he has to pay anything more as he said that he paid all his 
monthly premiums. But I should explain that the monthly payments he made  werent monthly 
premiums as he took out an annual policy. When Mr E entered  into the insurance policy he 
also entered into a separate  finance  agreement to in effect  take out a loan to pay for the 
annual premium. The finance provider paid the annual  premium on Mr Es behalf and Mr Es 
monthly payments  were to repay the loan. If Mr E is unhappy about  the finance  agreement 
hell need to refer this issue to the finance provider.
The terms of the policy set out that if the policy  is cancelled  after the 14 day cooling off 
period, Brightside  can charge a cancellation fee of £60 and any lost commission. In addition 
to this, Mr E had to pay the premium for time on cover, the full cost of any additional extra  
policies he took out and interest on the finance agreement he took out to pay for the policy 
monthly.
As I said above, Brightside isnt responsible for the amount he was charged for the 
insurance policy and the additional excess protection insurance policy he took out. And hell 
need to contact the insurers of those policies if hes unhappy with the amount hes been 
charged in premiums.
As a broker,  it was Brightsides responsibility  to carry out the administration of the policy and 
highlight key and significant terms to Mr E when he first took out the policy.
Brightside has waived  the cancellation fee of £60 it was entitled to charge. So I think  its 
acted more than reasonably in this respect. I can also see that it charged  Mr E £64.51 in lost 
commission. The terms of the policy entitles Brightside to charge for any lost commission  if 
the policy is cancelled  early and after the initial 14 day period. And its not unreasonable that 
it does so as its carried  out its responsibilities  to arrange an insurance policy.  Its not 
unreasonable that it receives its fees for doing so.
However, I would  expect a broker to make it clear to the policyholder when they take out the 
policy that it will charge  this. But, if the broker  does  this, we need to think whether the 
policyholder would have acted any differently had they know about the commission  claw-
back. In this case I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr E intended  to cancel the policy 
midway through  the policy term. And he only did so because the insurer wouldnt insure his 
new car. So I dont  think  he would have acted differently had Brightside made it clear that 
hed have to pay the full commission  if the policy was cancelled early.  So I dont think its 
unreasonable that it charged this fee.
Ref: DRN11696773I also think its possible Brightside  didnt  make it clear when Mr E took out the insurance 
policy that he would have to pay for the full cost of the excess protection insurance policy he 
took out if he cancelled it early.  But for the same reasons as Ive set out above,  Im not 
persuaded that he would have acted differently had Brightside done what it should have 
done.
Overall, Im satisfied that Brightside has acted fairly and reasonably in this case. And its 
entitled to require Mr E to settle the outstanding  balance on the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1169677