K821x#15complaint
Mr B complained about a loan he took out through a company called Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma. Mr B says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loan 
caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Satsuma throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr B took out 1 loan from Satsuma in December  2017.  Ive enclosed a 
summary of Mr Bs borrowing with Satsuma,  based on the information it provided  to us. It 
can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
 
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be 
upheld. Satsuma didnt  reply so Ive been  asked to make an ombudsmans  final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Bs 
complaint.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
B could  repay the loan he was given  in a sustainable manner. These  checks  ought to have 
taken into account  a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Mr Bs complaint.
Satsuma told us it carried out certain  checks before  agreeing to lend to Mr B, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on what was 
Ref: DRN10364262said, this information  showed that Mr B would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. 
But Im afraid I dont agree and I think theres enough evidence to uphold his complaint.  
This is because we know that Mr B had previously applied for a Satsuma loan in the summer 
of 2017. This application wasnt proceeded with because it was discovered by the financial 
checks Satsuma seems  to have carried out that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulties. 
For example, Mr B had been placed  in an individual voluntary arrangement  (IVA) to help him 
manage his outstanding debts. And to get into that situation, its well known that financial 
difficulties are apparent.  
By the time Mr B made  this application to Satsuma in December 2017  Mr Bs financial 
problems still werent resolved, so I think any reasonable assessment would show that 
lending him money  wasnt a good  idea. He was still in the IVA. I therefore find Satsumas 
lending to Mr B to have  been irresponsible. It was clear he had problems managing  money 
and these problems  were still current at the time of the December 2017 loan. Satsuma 
should have researched its own records and concluded that the lending wasnt  safe.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr B, Satsuma should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid to the loan;  
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
it was paid (if it was) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat any payments 
Mr B made towards this loan as payments towards  the capital;
if reworking Mr Bs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr B effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Satsuma should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement;
If reworking Mr Bs loan account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, then 
Satsuma can use the total refund to offset  this. And if there  is still an outstanding 
capital balance then I would remind Satsuma that it should take a sympathetic view 
when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining 
capital.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in relation the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  It must give Mr B a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. And I direct Provident Personal  
Credit Limited to pay Mr B the compensation above.
Ref: DRN10364263Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 11/12/2017 Unknown 6 £300.00 £94.80
Ref: DRN1036426