K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss D says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear Miss D didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application.  On it theres a section called Product 
details and below this is says if you want these services please mark the relevant 
boxes. I can see theres  a cross in the box for PPI, and Miss D has signed the form as a 
whole to confirm  the information  on there  is correct.  So I think she wanted cover at the 
time.
The cross in the box is pre-printed. But so is all the other information on the form. So I 
think it likely  the cross  for PPI was added after Miss D had a conversation  with someone  
at Halifax about  the cover, in which she chose  to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Miss D says she didnt need the PPI because she would have got a good level of sick 
pay from her employer.  But this PPI policy would have paid out in addition  to any sick 
pay Miss D might have got. If Miss D had been off work for an extended period, she 
would have only got half of her pay, so I think this PPI policy  could have been useful to 
her if shed have been  too ill to work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss D has said - including what she has said about the cost 
and benefit of the PPI not being made  clear  to her. But this point doesnt  change my 
decision. It isnt clear to me how Halifax presented the information about the cost and benefit  
of the policy. But even if I accept that it could have done this better, I still think Miss D would 
have bought the cover. I say this because even though  she had some sick pay from her 
employer. Shes also said she wouldnt have had any other means of being  able to make 
repayments to the card without the PPI. So I think the cover  could have benefited  her.
Ref: DRN14518172This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss D back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Miss D.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1451817