K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with way that their home  insurance claim for water damage  to 
their home was handled by AA Underwriting Insurance Company  Limited.
background
On 16 March 2018 Mr and Mrs O suffered a large water leak to their home. They made  an 
initial claim on their home emergency  insurance  to have the leak stopped. They  made a 
claim to AA, who sent out a recovery specialist who installed drying equipment  on 20 March.  
The property was declared dry on 4 April. In the meantime a surveyor  had been  sent out to 
scope the repair works  needed. Mr O asked for a copy of the scope which  was sent to him 
on 19 April. He was asked if he wanted to use his own contractor  or AAs contractor. He 
opted for the latter on 30 April.
AA instructed a contractor  who visited but who then withdrew from AAs network. An 
alternative contractor was appointed who visited the property on 21 May.  The contractor 
then tried to arrange  a start date with Mr O but he refused to sign the scope of works  until 
16 July. The contractor agreed to book the work in to start on 19 September.  However they 
werent able to start because Mr and Mrs O hadnt cleared their contents  from the damaged 
areas of the property.  Mr O then negotiated  with AA for payment of his costs in removing his 
contents and putting them into storage.
The works started in October but after stripping out the contractors noticed dangerous wiring  
in the kitchen and melting  of light fittings. The area needed rewiring  and replacement of the 
fittings. Other work was identified  as being age related and not the result  of the escape of 
water claim. This included  repairs to the staircase  and relevelling  the quarter landing.  It was 
explained to Mr O that he was liable to pay for these  repairs but he wouldnt accept this. 
Because of issues Mr and Mrs O had had with the claim  AA decided to carry out the non-
insurance repairs. It estimated the cost of these  to be £5,000.
The repairs  were completed  in early December. Mr O had a number of issues  with the work. 
AA identified these  as snagging, and the contractor came back to do the further work  
needed in early January 2019.
Mr O complained to us in October 2018,  particularly  concerning the delays,  the contractors 
leaving the work and subsequently about  being  left without lighting in his kitchen  for a period 
of time. He also complained about  the quality of the work. He said that hed had to pay 
further storage  costs.
AA advised that although  it had accepted that there were issues  with the claim it had paid for 
a significant amount of work  not covered under the claim.  It accepted the further storage 
costs which  it said it hadnt  previously been advised of. It agreed  that we could look at all 
issues up until completion of the repairs.
Our investigator thought that AA had dealt with the matter reasonably. Its agreement to pay 
for the uninsured work was, he thought, fair compensation  for any issues suffered by 
Mr and Mrs O in the course of the claim.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
Ref: DRN19837622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays
I can understand Mr and Mrs Os anxiety for the repairs to be done following the significant 
water leak in their home. I do think  though that AA acted reasonably  at first, in arranging the 
drying out which I note was completed  within 3 weeks. Mr O asked to see the scope of 
works as is his right but I wouldnt necessarily expect the insurer to provide that routinely if 
its contractors were  carrying  out the repairs. Mr O didnt confirm  that he wanted AA to carry 
out the repairs until the end of April. There was a slight delay after that because of the 
contractors withdrawing.
However Mr Os refusal to sign the scope of work caused a significant delay of over six 
weeks which AA wasnt responsible for. The work couldnt be scheduled for a further  eight 
weeks and when the contractor arrived, they couldnt start because the contents were still 
there. I think  AA should have made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs O before the work started that 
contents needed to be removed. Normally the insurer would arrange removal.  This did cause 
a delay of about a month.
With the initial contractors  withdrawing  and the confusion over the contents  I think AA was 
responsible for about six weeks delay. Ive noted that AA agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Os 
storage and removal costs and the further storage  costs when notified of them. I dont 
propose to make any award in that respect.
uninsured work
Mr and Mrs O say they were left without kitchen  lighting  for a couple  of weeks.  They deny 
that there  were uninsured issues and said the contractors werent electricians. I think  from 
the photos and the fact that the electrics had to be rewired that there  were  problems with the 
electrics, not linked to the water damage. Once  the room was stripped out it was too 
dangerous to leave  the wires live. As regards the rest of the uninsured work, AA has sent us 
details of this and it does appear  to relate to timber and flooring that had to be replaced due 
to age rather than water damage. Whist Mr O disputes this Ive seen no expert report that 
says otherwise.
As a result I think AAs agreement to pay for those works is a fair way of resolving  the 
matter. I dont propose to ask it to pay any further  compensation.
quality of work
Mr O complained about the quality of the work.  AA identified this as snagging issues which 
the contractor came  back to repair. There are often such issues  left at the end of repair  jobs 
and I think AA addressed  these reasonably.
Mr O hasnt complained to AA about any of the work  since the snagging was completed.  If 
Mr and Mrs O have further issues  in future, the work is guaranteed.  They  should  approach  
AA if they have any problems with it.
Ref: DRN19837623overall
I think AA dealt with the claim reasonably. Where things did go wrong,  I think  it acted 
reasonably in paying for the uninsured  repairs to ensure the insured  work could be 
completed. I wont make any further  award.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1983762