K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd treated her unfairly,  when she told 
them about  the events that led up to an application to get a laptop,  using  a point of sale loan 
with them.
Throughout Miss Ds complaint with us, she has been represented by her father. But, to 
make things simpler, Ill just refer to Miss D. 
background
In 2018, Miss D says her boyfriend at the time, asked  her to buy an expensive  watch,  using 
a loan. She says he gave  her a deposit  to be able to get the borrowing. Miss D says her 
former boyfriend had told her hed give her the money back, to pay off the loan and that was 
the reason why she agreed to do it.
Miss D has told us that her former boyfriend  didnt give her the majority of the money for the 
watch. Instead, in June  2018, she says she was told to make various applications for credit, 
to get other expensive  goods, in return for the money to repay the loan for the watch.  Miss D 
says the pressure to take out the applications  came  from not only her former boyfriend,  but 
other third parties.
One of the applications  Miss D made, was a point of sale loan with Creation to get a brand  
new laptop. She says she went into a high street shop and the application was completed 
with a sales assistant.  A second application  for a different item, was started  on the same  
day, in the same shop. But, Miss D says the second application wasnt  completed, because 
the pressure from the third parties  stopped, when they took the first laptop from her.
A month later, Miss D says she sent an email  explaining  what  the third parties had made  her 
do, to the shop where she completed the application  for the laptop. Miss D says she also 
reported everything to the police. Although the retailer  acknowledged  her email, she didnt 
receive a response  to her concerns.
Over the remainder of 2018, Miss D has told us that she raised a complaint with Creation, 
but didnt receive  a reply. During that time, the point of sale loan wasnt  being repaid and 
Creation sent notices  of arrears to Miss D. Because she didnt  receive a reply, Miss D 
contacted us and asked  us to look into her complaint. She said she was made to take out 
the loan with Creation and in any case,  they didnt  ask enough  questions  about her financial 
circumstances.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ds complaint.  They found that the finance 
agreement with Creation,  was one of several which Miss D had taken out in the same week.  
The investigator was persuaded that Miss D was pressured by third parties into taking out 
the agreement  and that Creation didnt consider  fully, if she could have  afforded the 
repayments. Overall, the investigator recommended that Creation should cancel the loan 
agreement and remove any information  about it, from Miss Ds credit file.
Creation didnt accept  this. They  said Miss D could have chosen not to continue  with the 
application. They also said any other credit applications Miss D had made, would not have 
appeared on their credit  file check,  as they were  made around  the same  time. However, 
Creation offered to accept half of the payments due under the agreement,  in an attempt to 
Ref: DRN13388802settle Miss Ds complaint.  They  also said they would remove the account from Miss Ds 
credit file, once these repayments  had been made.
The investigator didnt  change their opinion and now the case has been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quite some  time has passed since the investigators  findings. I acknowledge that this 
probably hasnt  helped Miss D from being  able to move on from what happened.  I can see 
from what Creation have told us, that for most of this time they have placed a hold on the 
loan in Miss Ds name. This means,  when prompted, Creation havent asked Miss D to make  
payments, whilst she was waiting for our findings.
the background to the purchase of the laptop
Miss D has explained  that she was asked by her former boyfriend to buy the expensive  
watch, using a loan organised by a jewellery shop. She says her former boyfriend  gave her 
cash for the deposit,  but refused to give her the balance of the loan. Instead, Miss D says 
she was pressured  to take out other borrowing.
Ive considered what Miss D says,  as well as her bank statements from the time and the 
information on her credit  report. I can see that Miss D received money into her bank account,  
the day before she says she was taken to the jewellery shop, by her former  boyfriend. I think  
this was the deposit Miss D has told us about. I can also see a similar pattern with other 
amounts paid into her account, corresponding with the other borrowing she took out. 
I think Miss D has been consistent  in what shes  told us here.  She says she was given 
money by her former  boyfriend to use as a deposit.  Miss Ds bank statements show that 
other cash was credited  her account  in the same  way, over the next day. So, Im persuaded 
there was an arrangement, where a third party was involved with the purchases Miss D 
made over the two days in June 2018.
Miss Ds credit report shows the amount of borrowing  she had, around the period where she 
says she was pressurised by third parties,  into applying  for credit.  I can see that Miss D took 
out multiple loan agreements, for high street goods on or around 19 June 2018. I can also 
see applications were  made to her banker, for a personal loan around that date. Altogether,  
there were seven applications  for credit  across two days.
Before June 2018, the only other account showing  on her credit report, was her current  
account. And I can see from the credit report and bank statements, that Miss D didnt make 
use of an overdraft facility  at the time.  Since June 2018, Miss Ds credit report shows she 
hasnt applied for any further  credit.  In other  words,  she didnt have a history  or borrowing 
money before June  2018, or for a significant time afterwards.
Miss D has given us details of the report she made  with the police. She says the third parties 
told her they wouldnt  give her money for the goods,  if she didnt make the application to 
Creation. Miss D also says it would  have had implications for her family, if she had refused 
to do what the third parties said.
Ref: DRN13388803Ive thought about this and given Miss Ds personal  circumstances, I can see why she felt 
hesitant to go against what she was being told by the third parties. Miss D has explained to 
everyone, including the police, that she doesnt have the item bought,  using the loan from 
Creation. Again, this is similar to the other applications made at the time.
Ive also thought about why Miss D didnt follow through with the second application with 
Creation, on the same  day. She says the third parties were  content with the first item bought, 
so she was able to prevent the subsequent application from completing. I think  Miss Ds 
explanation is reasonable and it follows that she has tried to limit the extent  of the situation 
she found herself in.
Having considered everything, I think a third party was involved in Miss Ds actions to apply  
for credit in June 2018. I think Miss Ds credit  history and bank account activity show  she 
didnt normally rely on credit to purchase high street goods. I also think  Miss D acted  in good 
time to report her concerns, about  the behaviour of the third parties, to the police. I think  
Miss D has been consistent and credible with what shes told Creation and us. 
Ive also considered that Creation may not have had the benefit of knowing about  the other 
applications at the time Miss D applied to them. But, I think  Creation were  made  aware soon 
afterwards, when Miss D complained to them. On balance, Im persuaded a third party used 
financial control and intimidation to coerce Miss D into applying  for a loan to Creation,  in 
June 2018. Given  the report made to the police, I also think  a third party took the goods  
financed by the loan with Creation, from Miss D.
the details Miss D used  in the application
I acknowledge that some of the information  Ive used  in my conclusions so far, may not have 
been available to Creation  at the time of the application. So, Ive thought about what  
information they did have, when the agreed  the loan with Miss D, to see if they treated her 
fairly and reasonably.
Creation have told us that Miss Ds application was completed in a high street electrical 
goods shop, which processes their loan applications in store. Creation have also sent us 
screen shots of the information they gathered from Miss D at the outset. I can see from the 
screen shots that Miss Ds salary is recorded  as salary band K. Creation say this means 
Miss D told them she was earning around £80,000 a year.
Miss D has told us that at the time of the application, she was a full-time  student and working  
part time hours in bar. I have looked  at Miss Bs bank statements from March until June 
2018 and I can see her income was considerably less than what Creation say she had told 
them. Miss D received a payment from the student loan company during this three month 
period, but I cannot see any payments into her account from an employer.
Ive considered the Financial Conduct Authoritys  Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC),  
where it outlines that lenders are expected  to use proportional checks  when processing an 
application for credit. Given Miss Ds personal and financial circumstances, and the size of 
the loan being applied  for, I think a responsible lender should have asked further questions.  
In this instance, I think Miss D didnt  have the income which  Creation have relied upon and 
she wasnt asked any questions about her expenditure, apart from her rent or mortgage 
payments. Miss D wasnt asked to provide a payslip or a bank  statement  to support what  she 
Ref: DRN13388804was saying. And Creation say they were aware at the time, that Miss D was working 
occasional shifts in a bar. So, I dont think Creation did enough  to check  if Miss D could 
afford the repayments.  Had Creation  done  so, I dont think a responsible  lender would have 
agreed to the loan.
Creation say they considered Miss Ds total household income,  which included her parents 
financial circumstances. They say it was reasonable to include this information, because  
Miss Ds parents would  be able to help with repayments. 
I acknowledge that it was important for Creation to look at Miss Ds expenditure and to 
consider what she has to contribute for costs like rent, food and utility  bills. But, I think any 
loan application  Miss D made, was separate to the income of her parents. The loan with 
Creation wasnt a guarantor loan, whereby the financial standing  of someone else is used to 
help take out borrowing.
Ive also thought about the relevant rules, regulations and what  was considered to be best 
practice at the time. Having done so, I dont think Creation were right to look at Miss Ds 
parents income  as it wasnt  earned jointly with her and their own expenditure wasnt 
Miss Ds responsibility either.
In all the circumstances, I think Creation had an opportunity to ask further questions  about 
Miss Ds financial circumstances. Had they done  do, I think Creation would have  found  her 
income and expenditure to be very different from what they say she told them. Also,  I dont 
think Creation can rely on household income  as a reason to have lent to Miss D. 
Although Miss D may have lived with her parents  in June 2018, their income  isnt shared 
with her. So, I think Creation should  have  reviewed Miss Ds income and expenditure  
separately to anyone else she lived with at the time.
Having considered everything, I dont think Creation treated Miss D fairly  when  she applied 
for the loan with them. I think there  was an opportunity  to have stopped  the loan from being 
opened and to have prevented Miss Ds further indebtedness.
the settlement  of the complaint
Creation have offered to accept half of the payments, due to the loan agreement to settle  the 
complaint. They say theyll also remove any information from Miss Ds credit  file, should she 
make those payments.
But, I dont think Creations offer takes into consideration the circumstances that led up to 
the application, which became clearer during  their investigation into Miss Ds complaint. Ive 
concluded that I think Miss D was the victim of coercion and intimidation, when she applied 
for the point of sale loan with Creation. And Im persuaded that she doesnt have the goods 
acquired with the loan.  I think  its likely  they were taken by the third parties who used 
coercive control over Miss D. 
Ive also concluded  that the information  Creation collected during the application  meant that 
it was reasonable  for them to ask further  affordability questions.  I think if more scrutiny  was 
given to Miss Ds employment  status, income and expenditure, a responsible lender would 
have declined the application.
Ref: DRN13388805In all the circumstances, I dont think its fair for Creation to pursue Miss D for repayment  of 
the balance of the loan agreement. I think Creation should remove Miss D from the loan 
agreement at no cost to her and remove the information about the loan, held with credit 
reference agencies.
The information provided by Creation suggests that Miss D hasnt made any payments 
towards the loan agreement. Creation have treated Miss D positively and sympathetically 
here, by placing any debt collections activity on hold, during our investigation. 
However, I acknowledge that there have been some instances where Miss D has been 
contacted for repayment. I think this was down  to an error, rather  than Creation insisting 
Miss D makes a payment. But, having  considered everything, I think  its fair for Creation to 
refund the repayments to Miss D, if she has made any towards the agreement.
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should:
remove Miss D from the loan agreement at no further cost to her;
refund  the payments Miss D has made  to the loan agreement; and
remove the loan agreement from the information  held about  Miss D with credit 
reference agencies.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1338880