K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is about the handling  of a claim she made  on her Great Lakes Insurance  
SE legal expenses  policy.
Mrs D says she was misdirected to the wrong  insurer which caused her loss. She wants 
Great Lakes to compensate her for this. 
All references to Great Lakes  include  their claims handlers. 
 
background
Mrs D says she contacted  Great Lakes in August 2018 to make an employment  claim on her 
legal expenses insurance policy. She says Great Lakes  redirected her to another  legal 
expenses insurer who subsequently  accepted  her clam in error.
The claim advanced to the stage where proceedings were issued against Mrs Ds employer 
for a number of things,  including constructive dismissal,  victimisation  and sex discrimination. 
During the course of those proceedings the other  insurer discovered  Mrs D wasnt actually 
insured with it so directed Mrs D back to Great Lakes. Great  Lakes said that whilst the claim 
was covered, such cover wouldnt  extend  to her discrimination claim as its policy  didnt cover 
this. 
Mrs D is unhappy with how Great Lakes  handled  her claim. She said that they directed her 
to the wrong insurer in error which resulted in Mrs Ds claim  being  pursued by the wrong 
insurer and for a course of action not covered by her own legal expenses insurance policy. 
Great Lakes considered Mrs Ds complaint.  They said that whilst Mrs D had contacted their 
legal advice helpline and through her broker, talked about being insured by the other insurer, 
the helpline  wasnt  equipped to identify or correct  who she was covered by for legal 
expenses insurance.  Mrs D doesnt  agree. She says Great  Lakes told her to contact the 
other insurer when  she contacted them.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ds complaint and concluded it shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs D 
doesnt agree so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mrs Ds 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mrs D has provided us with a copy of her telephone  bill which shows  the time and date of the 
call she says she had with Great Lakes,  during  which they directed her to the other insurer.  
Great Lakes have provided a call recording of the same  date and broadly around  the same  
time and duration. Having listened  to that call, I dont think Great  Lakes did advise Mrs D to 
get in touch with another insurer.  Rather the legal  advice  line she spoke with told her shed 
have to call the generic  customer  service number for her insurer  to ascertain if she was 
covered. I appreciate  that Mrs D says that might not be the call shes referring to- its of a 
slightly shorter duration than the one noted on her phone bill- but Im persuaded by what  
Great Lakes says about this; namely that before she spoke to the legal advice line, she 
Ref: DRN11203492wouldve gone through to an automated line to select some options, which account for the 
slightly longer call duration noted  on her phone bill.
There is another call, which Ive also listened to. Thats between Mrs Ds broker and Great 
Lakes legal advice  line. During that call the broker says the claims handlers of the other 
insurer for Mrs D had been in contact  with them to ask for details  of her policy.  She asks 
about their identity. The legal advice line explains that theyre claims handlers so theyre 
likely checking the insureds policy to see whats covered. Theres nothing in that call that 
makes me think the legal advice line did something wrong. They  were asked specific 
questions, which they replied to. And I agree with Great Lakes that they wouldnt necessarily 
have been in a position to check who Mrs Ds insurer was even if asked because they only 
provided legal advice. This is evident  from the first call recording Ive mentioned  above.
I know Mrs D feels that a call took place between these two call recordings,  during which  she 
was directed to the wrong insurer. But without  a recording  of that call or any persuasive 
evidence, I cant say Great Lakes  are at fault. It could be that Mrs D contacted  the other 
insurer directly-  certainly that insurer accepted  her claim in error so its quite  possible that 
they wouldnt have  corrected her if shed called  to query if she was covered with them. So in 
the absence of anything persuasive to suggest Great  Lakes misdirected her, I wont be 
upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1120349