K821x#15complaint
Mrs E says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy that covered a store card. 
FICL has taken responsibility for this complaint, so Ill refer to FICL in my decision to keep 
things simple. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs E took out in 2003.  It was added to her 
account over the phone, a few years after she applied  for her store card.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the compliant, but FICL disagreed. So the complaint has been  
passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint because at the time Mrs E was sold PPI she wasnt  
in work  when she was sold the policy. This means that while  Mrs E wouldve been paying  full 
cost for the PPI, she wouldnt have been  able to utilise the primary benefits of the policy. 
Had this been  made  clear  to her, I dont think Mrs E wouldve  wanted  to take the policy, so I 
think that Mrs E has missed out because of something FICL did wrong. 
Ive considered everything FICL  have said  including  what  it has said about the 
questionnaire Mrs E completed being  dated  incorrectly to match  the date of sale, and that as 
she was of an employable age that she hasnt mentioned why she was unemployed at the 
time. But the date of sale in the questionnaire  was only two months  after the sale took place, 
so even in the event  she wasnt  unemployed at the time, shes likely to have  known she 
soon would be. And Mrs E has been consistent with what shes  told us, and FICL. There  can 
also be a number of reasons  why a person may be unemployed. So I still think  I should  
uphold the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs E in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs E would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Ref: DRN12485752FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs E owes  and what  she would 
have owed.
If Mrs E made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs E would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs E 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs E paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs E 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs E what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs E a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1248575