K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says she was encouraged to 
take on more  debt just to keep things going  and she struggled to make  the repayments.  She 
thinks Morses knew she was in difficulty and so it shouldnt have lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about six home credit loans Morses provided to Miss B between  August 
2016 and April 2018.
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm  
(weeks)date ended
1 18/03/2016 £150.00 20 11/08/2016
2 23/08/2016 £200.00 20 09/01/2017
3 29/11/2016 £500.00 52 21/11/2017
4 10/02/2016 £300.00 33 05/10/2017
5 21/11/2017 £500.00 52 21/01/2019
6 16/04/2018 £500.00 52 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Morses shouldnt  have  
approved loans 5 and 6. Miss B agreed  with the assessment. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
It undertook detailed income,  expenditure and credit checks before lending  each 
time. The loans  were affordable for her.
Miss B had a good repayment history  and it was evident that she could afford  the 
loan repayments.
It did not consider  that it had overcommitted Miss B, or that it had lent irresponsibly to 
her.
So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been  passed to me to issue a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term and high cost credit  - including all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Morses needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN16876652But certain factors might  point to the fact that Morses  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Ive decided  to uphold Miss Bs 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Miss B has accepted  our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement  about  these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing  relationship Miss B had with Morses.  
So they are something  I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 5 and 6 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending  
history with Miss B, with a view to seeing if there  was a point at which  Morses  should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should  have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
At this point Morses  ought to have realised  Miss B was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss B had been  indebted to Morses for around 20 months. So 
Morses ought  to have realised it was more likely than not Miss B was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole making  the earlier  loan repayments  was leaving in 
her finances and that Miss Bs indebtedness  was unsustainable.
Miss Bs first loan was for £150  and loan 5 was for £500.This  also shows that Miss 
Bs need for credit  was increasing  over time and was more  likely that not becoming  
unsustainable.
Ref: DRN16876653There were  no breaks in the lending from the start and Miss B started new loans  
typically to repay  the outstanding balance on the loans she already had. 
And it follows from the above that Miss B wasnt making any real inroads to the 
amount she owed Morses. This was increasing  over time. Loan 6 was taken out over 
two years after Miss Bs first loan. And it was for a larger  amount. Miss B had paid 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Miss B lost out because  Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Miss B borrowed was likely to have had negative  
implications on Miss Bs ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Morses  should put things right.
putting things right  what Morses  needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  from loan 5 onwards  should be removed from 
Miss Bs credit file.
If Miss B still owes Morses any of the principal balance she borrowed on her final loan 
Morses should  remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance.  
Morses should  then re-work the account  as if all payments made by Miss B went  to towards 
the principal. But importantly, Morses needs  to make sure that Miss B doesnt  repay  more  
than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Miss B hasnt repaid the principal  she borrowed Morses  can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Miss B has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if Morses no longer  owns this debt, and it wants to make  a deduction due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Miss B.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses  to take off tax from this interest. Morses must  
give Miss B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN16876654my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Bs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June  2020
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1687665