K821x#15complaint
Mr A and Mrs J complain  that Yorkshire  Building Society mi-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage in 2003.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr A and Mrs Js complaint in June 2019. I said I was 
minded not uphold it and invited them to let me have anything  else they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.  Neither  Yorkshire Building Society nor Mr A or 
Mrs J have provided any further information.  So, this complaint now comes to me to decide.
Mr A and Mrs J took out a joint mortgage with Yorkshire Building Society in 2003  and 
alongside that PPI to cover their mortgage repayments. The PPI covered them jointly  for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
As I dont have any new information to consider, I see no reason to change  my provisional  
decision. My reasons  for not upholding this complaint  are therefore the same as set out in 
my provisional decision. Ive set these out again, below.
I dont think Yorkshire Building  Society advised  Mr A and Mrs J to take out the PPI. But, it 
still had to give them enough clear information  to decide for themselves whether the PPI was 
right for them and they wanted to buy it. Yorkshire  Building Society  also had to make  it clear 
to Mr A and Mrs J, that they didnt have to take the insurance to get the mortgage, and that it 
was an optional and separate  product.
Ive seen Mr A and Mrs Js mortgage application  form.  They  didnt select PPI. But they then 
completed a separate PPI application form to take out the cover,  which they both signed.  
They were  also sent a mortgage offer that told them that PPI wasnt  a condition  of the 
mortgage. They were  told that PPI was free for the first six months and then after that it 
would be £51.20 per month for £1060 per month of cover, split equally between them. So, I 
think they wouldve  understood  that they didnt need to take PPI and did so because  they 
wanted it.
Turning next to what Mr As told us about  his PEMC. Hes told us that he was suffering from 
a serious condition shortly  before taking out the mortgage and PPI, and that he was off work 
for around  seven weeks with it. He said this has led to him having a long-term  condition.  
Looking at the timing,  this all seemed to begin around the same time as they were taking out 
their mortgage with PPI. So, I think in those circumstances, they mightve remembered that 
he was unwell around time they took out their mortgage and PPI.
Mr As given  inconsistent information  about  his health. When he first wrote to us, he didnt 
mention having  a PEMC. But to be fair to him, at that point in time he couldnt recall  when 
the policy was sold to him. However,  looking at the paperwork he sent in, he was working for 
the same  employer, so this mightve  jogged his memory.
Ref: DRN14705682Given the nature of the condition Mr A mentions, the medical appointments hes said he 
attended and the long term impact  he says its had on his health,  it should be relatively easy 
to get information from his medical  records to show that he had a PEMC  at the time. Hes 
not told me why he cant get this. Without  this information, based  on what  Ive seen to date, I 
cant fairly conclude  that Mr A had a condition which wouldnt have been covered under the 
policy. Currently, as it stands, I think it likely that he and Mrs J couldve benefitted  from what  
the policy offered,  so I cant see that having  better  information about these things wouldve 
led to them making  a different decision and not taking PPI.
 
Ive considered Mr A and Mrs Js other circumstances too. They  were  both working and said 
they were eligible to get around three months worth  of sick pay each. The policy wouldve 
paid on top of their work benefits  and for potentially longer than they were  covered by their 
employers; for up to 12 months per successful claim. It wouldve also have paid out if they 
were unexpectedly made unemployed. They say they had no other means. So, I think, 
overall, the policy couldve provided  them with useful protection  to protect their home. 
Its possible that Mr A and Mrs J were incentivised into taking out PPI because  of the free 
cover. However, this was a monthly paid policy, so they couldve cancelled the policy  at any 
time without  losing out financially. And they were told the cost of the policy up front, in the 
mortgage offer, so I think they wouldve understood what they had to pay for the cover  if they 
wanted it to run on past the free period.
Whilst its possible that Yorkshire Building  Society  couldve given them clearer  information,  I 
cant see that the policy was mis-sold. I say this because they appeared to want  the cover, 
and it seemed affordable and appropriate for them for the reasons explained above.
Which means Yorkshire Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr A and Mrs J.
But Yorkshire Building Society has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr A and Mrs J 
because:
Yorkshire Building Society  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr A and Mrs J about  that. Because 
Yorkshire Building Society didnt tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, Yorkshire  Building Society  has paid back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN14705683my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Js complaint. And in those 
circumstances I dont  require Yorkshire  Building  Society to pay Mr A and Mrs J any more 
money. Thats because  my understanding is that it has already paid back some of the 
commission it received and I think Yorkshire  Building Societys has acted fairly by doing so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1470568