K820x#14complaint
Miss B is unhappy that a claim for a broken window in a flat she rents out has been declined 
on a buildings  insurance policy provided  by Zurich Insurance PLC.
background
Miss B owns the lease  for a flat in a tower  that was constructed  just over 10 years before the 
claim. The fabric of the building  is insured as a whole by the freeholder  using the Zurich  policy. 
In March 2018 Miss Bs tenant  contacted  her and reported one of the living room windows 
had cracked. She contacted Zurich to make a claim for the damage.
Zurich commissioned an engineer to assess the damage. It was noted the outside layer  of 
the double-glazed unit was made  of toughened glass and the inner layer was laminated  
glass. The internal layer of glass had suffered significant cracking  in the lower  part of the 
pane. It was stated that there was no displacement to, or crushing of, the glass, which  would 
normally be present  if it had been  struck by a hard object. In the engineers  opinion,  the 
nature of the cracks  was indicative of a low-energy force, such  as thermally induced 
stresses, rather than from movement of the building, impact  or wind loading.  The engineer 
explained that when warmed the central  part of the glass pane would be heated more, with 
an associated higher level of expansion,  than the edges of the pane enclosed in the frame  
would. The difference in temperature  would create  thermal stresses,  and if those stresses  
exceed the strength of the pane  of glass, it would  crack. 
However, given the apparently identical window immediately beside the damaged  one 
remained intact, the engineer concluded there had to be another factor  involved.  That factor 
had to be one that concentrated stresses in a particular  area or point. It was suggested  that 
this would be something along  the lines of a flaw introduced during the manufacturing 
process of the glass pane or slight damage  to its edge when the double-glazed  unit was 
built. It wouldnt be possible to be entirely  certain  about the exact cause of the damage until 
the window pane was removed from its frame.
In December 2018 Zurichs representative  wrote to Miss B and declined the claim. It said its 
expert had concluded the crack  had resulted  from either a flaw in the glass  or due to 
damage caused when it was installed. It said there was no cover in either situation.
Miss B wasnt happy that her claim had been declined and she complained  to Zurich. It 
responded to the complaint, but said that there  was no evidence the damage was due to a 
one off event. Even if there had been  potential cover under a section of the policy,  there 
were exclusions  for poor workmanship  and faulty materials that would defeat the claim. So 
there was no cover  available under the policy. However, it apologised for the poor service 
shed received. It said it was not acceptable  and offered Miss B £300  to say sorry. 
Miss B wasnt happy with Zurichs response  and referred her complaint  about the rejected 
claim to this service. She confirmed she intended to accept the £300 offered for poor service 
and that we didnt need to consider that issue. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint, but he didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.
Ref: DRN18428142Miss B didnt accept  the investigators  opinion. She said she had decided to obtain her own 
independent report  into the cause of damage because she doubted the impartiality of the 
report produced for Zurich  because it was paid for by the insurer. She also questioned  the 
wind speed taken  into consideration by the expert, as it had been taken at ground level, 
whereas her flat was the top half of the 40 floor tower. She was also unhappy that the expert 
had suggested  the tenant may not have reported  the damage  when it happened.  
Zurich confirmed the maximum wind (gust) speed on the date of the loss at 10 metres above 
ground level was 23 mph. Having spoken  to a weather data organisation used widely  within 
the financial services  market, it was confirmed that at the elevation of Miss Bs flat would 
have increased  the gust speed to around  30 mph.
Miss B was unable to obtain a report on the damage. Given she didnt accept the 
investigators conclusions  the complaint has been  passed to me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold  this complaint, I must  be persuaded that Zurich  was wrong when it declined the 
claim. When considering  such cases,  we rely heavily on expert  evidence.  In this case, the expert 
evidence indicates  that the two perils that would usually be considered in cases such  as this  
storm and impact - didnt cause the damage. This is because  the weather was not sufficiently  
windy to be considered a storm. There was no evidence of displacement  of the glass, as there 
would have been had there been an impact of sufficient force to cause the glass to crack.
So the remaining  peril of accidental damage  would be the only possibility of cover being 
provided by the policy. Based on the engineers  description of the mechanism he thought  
was the most likely cause  of the problem  stresses  caused by differential thermal  
expansion across  the pane of glass  it doesnt  seem likely it was a one off event, even if 
the damage did manifest itself over a short  period of time. However, even if it were 
considered that a single  event had caused  the damage, the engineer  has said damage only 
occurred because there was a fault with the pane of glass.  While the exact  nature of the 
fault isnt known, I am persuaded by the explanation  given by the engineer that such a fault 
does exist. Such damage would be excluded under the policy,  as it doesnt provide cover 
where the damage is caused by defective  materials or poor workmanship. 
I know this will disappoint Miss B, but I am not persuaded Zurich was wrong when  it 
declined the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1842814