K822xcomplaint
Miss P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC applied an unfair early repayment  charge 
(ERC) when she repaid  her mortgage. She also says that Barclays provided a poor service 
when she spoke to it about the ERC.
background 
In 2013, Miss P took out a mortgage  with Barclays. It had a fixed rate of 2.99% until 31 
December 2018.  An ERC was payable  if the mortgage was repaid before that date.
In August  2018,  Miss P repaid her Barclays mortgage. It charged an ERC of 3% of the 
mortgage balance   so over £5,000.  
Miss P says that the ERC hasnt been applied in line with the relevant laws and regulations.  
She says that it isnt a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to Barclays of the mortgage being  
repaid early.  Miss P considers it would be reasonable for the percentage of the ERC to 
reduce in each  year of the tie-in  period in line with some other fixed rate mortgages. She 
also points out that the amount of interest  left to pay on the fixed  rate was less than the ERC 
she was charged.
Miss P also says that she wasnt made  aware that the term of the fixed rate was five years  
and two months  not five years as she had been led to expect. And when she spoke to 
Barclays about the ERC she was given wrong information and a poor service.  She said this 
has added  stress to what was an already stressful time while  moving home.
Our investigator thought the ERC had been fairly  brought to Miss Ps attention and didnt 
think it was unreasonable. The investigator later looked again into the service  from Barclays.  
She agreed  it could  have  been better. But she thought its increased offer of a total of £100 
was fair reflection  of the service it had provided.
Miss P didnt accept  what the investigator said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERC
Miss P is correct  that the relevant rules  say that the ERC should  be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the cost to Barclays of the mortgage  being repaid early. But the ERC  can be 
estimated across a group of mortgages  of the same type. It is an estimate made at the time 
the mortgage was taken  out of what Barclays costs could  be if the mortgage is repaid during 
the fixed rate period. The actual costs  to Barclays on an individual mortgage could be more 
or less than the ERC.  But it doesnt follow that the ERC wasnt calculated in line with the 
rules or is unfair. 
I must take into account these rules in deciding  what in my opinion  is fair and reasonable. So 
I need to consider whether the ERC was a reasonable  pre-estimate  of the cost to Barclays of 
the mortgage being repaid early.
Ref: DRN18952882Barclays has provided a breakdown  of how it calculated  the ERC for Miss Ps mortgage. 
This information is commercially sensitive  and Ive accepted it in confidence, as Im entitled 
to under our rules. Ive carefully considered  the information it has given us. And having  done 
so I think the ERC has been calculated fairly.
Miss P says that Barclays losses were limited to the interest for the remaining time on the 
fixed rate. But that isnt something that Barclays has taken into account in its calculations. 
Rather it has looked at what  its costs  might be if it had to unwind the investment linked to the 
mortgage to protect  itself from interest  rates going up and the fixed  costs it has in relation to 
setting up and administering  the mortgage.  Looking at the information Barclays has 
provided, I consider  it is a reasonable  way for it to estimate its costs  if the mortgage  was 
repaid before the end of the tie-in  period.
I accept that some other  lenders charge  a decreasing percentage ERC. But it doesnt  
necessarily mean that an ERC with a fixed  percentage  is unfair. And there  is no requirement 
for a lender  to calculate the ERC in a certain  way  only to make  sure it is reasonable. Ive 
already found  that the methodology used  by Barclays in this case was a reasonable way for 
it to estimate  the cost of the mortgage  being repaid early.
The mortgage was sold by a broker  not Barclays. So it wasnt  responsible  for explaining 
the terms of the mortgage to Miss P. But I consider the ERC (and the term of the fixed  rate) 
was set out clearly  and prominently in the mortgage offer and was fairly brought to her 
attention. As Miss P agreed to this when she accepted the offer and as I consider the way 
the ERC  was calculated  was reasonable, I dont consider it was unfair for Barclays to apply 
the ERC  in the circumstances of this case.
service
Ive listened to the phone calls that Miss P had with Barclays. It gave her conflicting and 
confusing information  about the ERC.  It also failed to grasp  the points that Miss P was 
making and didnt properly explore the options  available to her  and didnt call back as 
promised.
I know Miss P will be disappointed that I havent upheld  the main  part of her complaint. But I 
consider that Barclays should pay her more compensation to reflect the unnecessary 
frustration, stress and trouble its handling of this matter has caused  to her. It has already 
paid Miss P £50 for the time taken to deal with her complaint. I dont consider the additional 
£50 properly compensates  her for trouble and upset  she experienced as a result of the 
service from Barclays.  I consider it would be fair for Barclays to pay her £150  to reflect that.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Miss P £150 in addition  to the 
£50 already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1895288