K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a conditional sale agreement financed 
by Close  Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. He wants to reject the vehicle or for the business to pay for repairs.
background
Mr M tells us he acquired the vehicle, from a dealer Ill refer to as W, in September  2018.  
He says that in December  2018 he noticed a knocking" noise coming from the engine.  Upon 
inspection he states that he found the oil level to be below the minimum dipstick level.  He 
says that when he acquired  the vehicle hed noticed  smoke from the exhaust but had been  
told by W that this was due to a build up of carbon as the previous owner  hadnt  driven  the 
vehicle at full power.  Mr M says that when he reported the breakdown, W accused  him of 
neglecting the vehicle and only offered a part-payment towards  the repairs.  After hed had 
the vehicle recovered and taken  advice from a local garage Mr M says he was told the 
problem might be with the crank  shaft but would require further investigation.
CBMF said itd provided a copy of an independent  report following an inspection  of the 
vehicle by a company Ill refer to as A". And it enclosed notes of contacts itd made with Mr 
M. It said itd been unable  to provide  a final response letter  as at the time the complaint was 
referred to this service  its enquiries were still ongoing.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on13 March 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. And that I thought  the vehicle hadnt been of satisfactory  quality when 
supplied to Mr M. I said he should  be able to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement.  
Since then both parties have replied and I thank  them for their responses.  Mr M agreed with 
my provisional view. CBMF  said it had nothing to add.
In those circumstances I see no reason to change my provisional decision which is repeated  
in the reasons for my final decision  set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr M has had such a disappointing  experience with this vehicle. And I accept 
hes been caused inconvenience  as a result. Unfortunately, with older  vehicles the chances 
of something going wrong are increased and thats what seems  to have happened here.
Mr Ms conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. CBMF supplied the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA). This states that - in order to conform  to contract - goods  have  to be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory quality is defined  as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for issues  which can 
include but are not limited  to the age of the goods  and previous  use. It also includes an 
element of durability.
Ref: DRN14228972Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
When Mr M acquired the vehicle it was around  seven years  old with a recorded mileage of 
51,000 miles. At the time of the reported  breakdown the vehicle had covered a further 
3,800miles.
Mr M had originally reported a knocking"  noise coming from the engine and smoke  coming  
from the exhaust. This was confirmed in the report by A which  stated:
The vehicle displayed  severe knocking  from the bottom end and severe crank issues. 
And A went on to conclude:
We would consider  that on the balance  of probability the vehicle  would have been in a 
compromised state at finance inception and as such the vehicle should be returned to the 
selling agent for repairs".
When it was later suggested to A that the issues may have been caused by the vehicle 
being driven by Mr M without sufficient oil, it responded:
At the time of our visit we did consider it was probable after only 3835-miles that the above 
reported condition  is likely  to have been  in an advanced stage of development at the time of 
hire commencement and it appeared very unlikely that the operator had induced  the 
condition or that the deterioration leading to the condition under review had solely developed 
in the hire period".
And it went on to state:
In this case  we have  seen no evidence to suggest the condition  was the result of an 
operator error. There was no evidence to indicate that this is simply wear and tear which  has 
developed within the hire period".
Its obvious the vehicle suffered a serious breakdown within  a relatively  short time of supply. 
The independent inspection concludes that the issues which led to the breakdown were 
most likely present or developing at the point of supply.
Whilst the oil level might have fallen below the required level immediately prior to the 
breakdown this seems  to be a direct result  of the faults themselves. And the suggestion  - 
which I understand initially came from W - that Mr M was negligent and drove the vehicle 
without oil isnt supported by any independent  evidence.
Briefly summarised, the CRA states that if goods  become faulty - so as not to conform  to 
contract - within the first six months  following supply,  its assumed the goods didnt conform 
to contract  at the point of supply - unless its shown otherwise.
Here As report confirms the likelihood that the faults which  led to the breakdown were 
present at the time Mr M entered the financial agreement and took possession of the vehicle.  
Taken together with the statutory presumption, I find on a strong balance of probabilities that 
this vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when  supplied  to Mr M.
Ref: DRN14228973Normally in these circumstances Id require CBMF to arrange for the vehicle to be repaired. 
But I think Mr M is entitled to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.  Ill explain why.
Where, under  the CRA, a consumer has the right to have goods repaired, the supplier is 
required to have those  repairs  completed within a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.
Mr M made his complaint in December 2018 and As inspection  which  indicated  that the 
faults were present at the point of supply was completed in the same month. So its 
surprising that - in the absence of any independent  evidence of misuse  - Mr M has been  
required to wait for repairs to be carried out. It may be that CBMF was influenced by Ws 
stance on the matter. The delay has undoubtedly increased the level of inconvenience 
experienced by Mr M. I think  this was avoidable. Mr M has provided information to show the 
vehicles been  unused since December 2018  and I dont think it would  be fair and 
reasonable for him to be required  to wait any longer to have matters settled.
In summary,  I intend to uphold the complaint. Im satisfied the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality when supplied  and theres been an unreasonable delay in having  the vehicle 
repaired.
Finally, CBMF has advised that in the prevailing circumstances it may take longer than usual 
for the decision to be processed and the vehicle collected. Im sure Mr M will understand this 
and make the necessary allowances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Close Brothers  Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor  Finance to take the 
following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr M to pay from date of termination; 
2.Arrange collection  of the vehicle at no cost to Mr M; 
3.Refund all monthly payments made  for any period from 13 December 2018 (pro rata
            if necessary) from the date of payment  until the date of settlement;
4.Refund the deposit of £500;
5.Pay Mr M £200 for distress and inconvenience;
6.Arrange to have  the record of the agreement removed from Mr Ms credit  file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment  to date of settlement should
be added  to refunds  arising from 3 and 4 above.
Ref: DRN14228974Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1422897