K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to remove  the Tech 
Pack on her account. She is also unhappy  with the distress caused during her phone calls 
with Barclays.
background
In February 2018,  Mrs H contacted Barclays and requested that the Tech Pack  on her 
account be removed.  The advisor asked to read a statement, Mrs H requested that she be e-
mailed the details.  The call was then ended  by Mrs H and the Tech Pack  was not removed.
Mrs H complained to Barclays and various  phone calls were  made  by her. Mrs H says that 
these calls caused her considerable distress. Barclays since  this point  have refunded the 
Teck Pack fees that Mrs H paid after the call of February 2018. Mrs H has requested  
additional compensation for the distress caused  by Barclays actions.
Our adjudicator looked into this and she thought that what Barclays had agreed to do was 
enough. Mrs H disagreed with this and therefore the case  was passed to me to issue  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has already  refunded the account  fees with interest so all that remains  for me to 
look at is whether any further compensation is due. In doing  this I have listened to the calls 
between Mrs H and Barclays
I have listened  to the call in which Mrs H asked for her Tech Pack  to be removed. I 
understand that contacting a financial  institution can be stressful  and that sometimes it is 
frustrating to give security information  multiple times. That said, in this call I do not think  that 
the Barclays member of staff did anything  wrong and while  I could tell that the calls were  
difficult for her I do not think that this was due to the Barclays member of staff.  I also think 
that the member  of staff made it clear that he could  not cancel the Tech Pack  until he 
explained how this would  affect  Mrs Hs account, I therefore do not think  that Barclays did 
anything wrong  in not cancelling  the Tech Pack as a result  of that call.
I have also listened  to the other calls that Barclays have provided. I accept that these  calls 
seem to have been stressful  for Mrs H but again I do not think that Barclays  did anything 
wrong. Barclays seem to have been polite during these calls and attempted  to help Mrs H.
I can see that Barclays, when Mrs H raised  her complaint with this service, refunded her the 
account fees paid after the call with interest  without Mrs Hs consent. Mrs H says that this 
caused her distress.  I understand that the refund was not agreed with Mrs H prior to it being  
actioned but I am satisfied  that Barclays did this to avoid  delaying the refunded  reaching  Mrs 
H. So I do not think further compensation is merited for this 
Given the above I think what Barclays has already done is more than fair and reasonable 
and therefore  I am not going  to ask it to do more.
Ref: DRN10968892my final decision
My final decision is that what Barclays has done is enough
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1096889