K821x#15complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the amount  of compensation Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax") has offered  to pay her for having  mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account 
(URCA) packaged bank  account. 
background
I attach my provisional decision of 8 April 2019, which forms part of this final decision.  In my 
provisional decision, I set out why I was intending to uphold Miss Ds complaint and find that 
Halifax needed to do more to put things right for Miss D. I also invited both parties to make  
any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Halifax responded  confirming that it accepted my provisional decision and 
that it would  pay compensation to Miss D. It also provided a breakdown as to how it worked 
out that Miss D made £1,240.46 in overdraft savings as a result of having the URCA. Miss D 
didnt provide anything further for me to think about.  
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that Halifax  has agreed its proposed deduction  for Miss Ds use of 
breakdown cover isnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And, 
having reviewed  the breakdown provided,  Im satisfied a proposed  deduction of £1,240.46 
from what Halifax now needs to pay Miss D isnt unreasonable, in the circumstances of the 
complaint, as it does  seems as though Miss D did make overdraft savings of that amount.
That said,  Im still concerned that Halifax may have deducted the overdraft savings Miss D 
made before adding  interest to the refund of the URCA fees. And this isnt how I said it 
should calculate Miss Ds compensation.  In my provisional decision, I said:  
Halifax may deduct any overdraft savings Miss D made, from the above  total,  as a result of 
having preferential  overdraft terms on her URCA,  as long as it provides a detailed 
breakdown of how it arrived at its figure.
The above  total was the refund  of account  fees plus interest at 8% per year simple on each  
fee from the date Miss D paid it to the date of settlement.  So I said that Halifax could only 
make its deductions once it added interest to the account fees. 
Halifax may argue adding  interest to the fees paid, before deducting  the savings made, 
leads to an inaccurate calculation of Miss Ds loss - as it has worked  out what  Miss D saved 
on a monthly basis. But I dont think that Halifaxs calculation isnt the most accurate way of 
putting Miss D in the position she wouldve been  in had she not been sold the URCA,  as it 
doesnt reflect the cumulative effect  of the fees Miss D shouldnt have paid. This is because  
Halifaxs calculation only took into account the monthly effect of the URCA fees. And its 
possible that if the cumulative effect  of the URCA fees was taken into account Miss D 
mightve have had lower  overdrawn balances at the end of the month. 
However, Miss D managed her current account on a day-to-day basis   and her spending 
would have reflected  her changing circumstances, needs and resources. In other words,        
Ref: DRN16497252Miss Ds balance at any point in time was shaped by her continued management of her 
account and hundreds of individual account decisions and transactions.  So, while  a full 
account reconstruction might produce a more accurate calculation, I think that it would be 
disproportionate here given the sheer  number of transactions - especially bearing in mind 
the length of time Miss D had the account.   
Although I think an account reconstruction would  be disproportionate, I do think its unfair to 
completely ignore the cumulative effect  of the URCA fees. And, in my view,  Halifax  making 
any deductions after adding  interest to the fees paid is the fairest, simplest and most 
proportionate way to reflect that the cumulative effect of the packaged account fees isnt 
factored into an account fee refund.
So having  carefully considered the circumstances of Miss Ds complaint, Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable for Halifax to deduct the £1,240.46 in overdraft savings Miss D made as a 
result of having the URCA. But only after it has added interest to the URCA fees paid. This 
means Halifax should calculate the compensation due to Miss D in the way set out below.      
fair compensation  what  Halifax should do to put matters right  for Miss D.
Halifax should put matters right in the following way:
refund  all the account fees Miss D paid for her URCA
add interest at 8% per year simple on each  fee from the date it was paid to the date 
of settlement;
deduct the overdraft savings  of £1,240.46  from the above total.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Halifax to take tax from this interest. Halifax must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 8 April 2019,  Im upholding    
Miss Ds complaint. Bank  of Scotland plc should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16497253COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss D is unhappy  with the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax") has 
offered to pay her for having mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) packaged  bank 
account. 
background
Miss D was sold an URCA in January  2010. Shes said that she was told she had to have the URCA  
to get an overdraft. Halifax  agreed that it shouldnt have sold the URCA to Miss D. It agreed  to refund  
the fees Miss D paid, plus interest, minus various  deductions   for savings made as a result of a 
preferential overdraft,  mobile phone insurance  and breakdown cover - to reflect  the fact that she used  
the benefits on the account.
Our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ds complaint. They thought that, bearing  in mind Miss Ds reasons 
for complaining, the proposed deductions for the overdraft savings made were fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. But they didnt  agree that the deductions  made for the mobile  
phone insurance or breakdown cover were fair.
Halifax agreed making a deduction for mobile  phone insurance wasnt fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint. But it maintained that it was fair and reasonable for it to make 
the deductions  it did for Miss Ds use of the breakdown cover on the account. 
Our adjudicator then put Halifaxs revised  offer to Miss D and she didnt accept it. She didnt  think it 
was reasonable for any deductions at all to be made. As the parties were  unable to reach  a resolution  
the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.     
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. And Ive 
used this approach in deciding  Miss Ds complaint.  
Halifax accepts  that it mis-sold the URCA to Miss D. So I dont need to look at the sale of the account 
itself (although some  of the facts and circumstances  may still be relevant  to what remains  for me to 
decide here).  I simply need  to decide whether what Halifax has done to put things right for Miss D is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case. 
It may help for me to start by saying that where  a bank agrees, or we think, a packaged bank account  
was mis-sold, we aim to put the consumer  back in the position theyd  be in if the sale hadnt taken  
place. Usually, this means getting the bank to refund all the account fees paid by a consumer, plus 
interest on each fee to reflect the fact that a consumer  has been out of pocket for some  time.  And 
typically this is the way that most banks calculate the compensation due to a consumer. But while  this 
will be the fairest way of calculating  any compensation  due in most cases, this wont always be the 
case. 
And in some cases it may be appropriate  to calculate  a consumers loss in a different  way. Halifax 
argues that the circumstances of Miss Ds case mean that this is one such instance. It argues that 
Miss D benefitted from having the account so any attempt to place her in the position she would now 
be in had she not been sold the account should reflect this. 
A Bank  can propose deductions for any savings a consumer made as a result of holding a packaged  
account. But when doing so, it should  provide good reasons for this based  on the position  that 
Ref: DRN16497254consumer would most  likely have been in if theyd not had the account and a clear  explanation of why 
it thinks the costs it has used are fair. If a bank can do both of these  things to support a proposed  
deduction, then the circumstances of the case might  mean that its fair and reasonable for this 
deduction to be made.
Halifax intends to deduct the overdraft savings  Miss D made and a further £50 to reflect  Miss Ds use 
of the breakdown service  on four occasions. It says the cheapest market  alternative to receive the 
same level of service is £25 a year.  And as this allows for multiple claims and three of Miss Ds 
callouts were  within a year, it believes £50, which  is two years worth of cover, is a fair deduction.  
Ive carefully thought about  what  Halifax has said and Ive looked  at each of its proposed deductions 
in turn.
Deduction for Miss Ds overdraft savings
Halifax has argued  that Miss Ds overdraft was charged at a preferential rate compared  to what she 
would have paid if she had only had a fee-free account.  It says that Miss D used her overdraft  for 102 
months while holding her URCA.  And the preferential  overdraft terms on the URCA meant that Miss D 
avoided paying overdraft  charges (which  she wouldve paid on a free account) by having  the URCA.  
Miss Ds complaint is that she wanted an overdraft and she was told that the only way she could  have 
one is by also having an URCA. Given what Miss D has said about  her reasons for approaching 
Halifax in the first place and why she believes  she was misled into taking the account, I think its 
reasonable to assume that Miss D would still have used her overdraft  in the same way if shed been 
given one on a free account.  
Equally as Im not aware that Miss D had access to any savings (or other funds) that would have 
enabled her to avoid using the overdraft, Im satisfied that she did save  as a result of not having to 
pay overdraft usage fees she wouldve otherwise paid  because  she had the URCA. So overall and 
having carefully  thought about the particular  circumstances of this case, I think  that the principle 
Halifax deducting any overdraft savings Miss D made, from what it now needs to pay her, is fair and 
reasonable.
That said, while Halifax has referred to Miss D having made an overdraft saving of £1,240.46, the 
information it has provided  so far doesnt  isnt enough of an explanation  of how it has arrived at this 
figure. So while  I accept that the principle of deducting the overdraft savings Miss D made, from what 
Halifax now needs to pay her is fair and reasonable, Halifax still needs to provide sufficient  evidence 
to show  me how Miss D saved £1,240.46.  
As this is the case, Halifax  should provide the full breakdown (rather than the extracts  it has provided 
so far) of how it arrived at Miss D having saved £1,240.46 in its response to this provisional decision.      
Deduction for Miss Ds use of the breakdown cover
It isnt in dispute that Miss D called out the breakdown  service  that came with her URCA  on four 
occasions. There  were  three occasions within a matter of weeks in the latter  part of 2011  and a final 
occasion at the end of 2014. As Ive explained,  Halifax  says the cheapest market alternative to 
receive the same  level of cover was or is £25 a year. And it is only proposing  to deduct this amount 
for two years  as Miss D wouldve been  able to make her first three callouts within  the first year of the 
first £25 charge. 
I accept that Halifax has provided  clear reasons on how it has arrived at the amount of £50. And the 
amount doesnt appear to be wholly unreasonable. But Ive already explained  that in order for a 
deduction to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the case, as well as providing clear  
costings, which are fair, a bank also needs to explain how any deductions made more likely than not 
place the consumer in the position theyd now be in if they didnt have  the account.  
Ref: DRN16497255In this case, I think that Halifax has simply  relied  on Miss Ds use of the breakdown  cover while she 
had her URCA as demonstrating how she would have behaved if she hadnt had the account. But it 
does not automatically follow that these  call outs would have been  made  if Miss D hadnt had the 
URCA. And I think that Halifax is either overlooking,  or it is at the very least  underplaying, the 
significance of it accepting that it forced Miss D into taking an URCA she didnt want. In my view,  this 
is a key consideration in any determination of whats  fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of 
this case.  
Ive considered whether  Halifaxs proposed deduction  for breakdown cover from Miss Ds 
compensation is fair and reasonable  in light of this.   
Miss D says she only used the breakdown cover because she was forced into paying for the URCA. 
She says if she didnt  have the URCA at the time, she would have made  alternative arrangements to 
deal with her breakdowns, which wouldnt have involved paying extra, as she had a company car. 
I cant  say for sure whether this is the case. Only Miss D knows this. In any event, what  Im deciding 
here is what I think is more  likely than not to have happened. And I find that              Miss Ds account  
of why she used the breakdown cover  while  she had the URCA and her explanation of why she 
wouldnt have paid for alternative cover, or an alternative service, if she wasnt forced into taking the 
account, isnt unreasonable  or unpersuasive.  
So, on balance,  Im intending to say that Miss D only used the breakdown cover because  she was 
forced into taking the account and that her behaviour in itself isnt indicative of what  more likely than 
not would have happened  had the URCA  not been mis-sold. As this is the case, Im intending to reach 
the conclusion that Halifaxs  proposed deduction for breakdown cover isnt fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Miss Ds complaint.
 
conclusions
I find that as its accepted Miss D only agreed to the URCA because she wanted an overdraft  
and she was misled into believing having  the URCA was necessary to have one, Miss D 
would more likely than not have used an overdraft  in the same  way on a free account. So I 
find that the principle  of deducting the overdraft savings Miss D made from the compensation  
now due isnt unfair. But Halifax  needs  to provide  a more detailed breakdown of how it arrived 
at its saving of £1,240.46.
I find that Halifax has used fair and reasonable  costings in its proposed deduction  for Miss Ds 
use of the breakdown cover. That said, it hasnt persuaded me it is more likely than not Miss 
D wouldve paid extra  for alternative cover and that her behaviour in using the cover  wasnt 
simply because  she was forced into taking the URCA in the first place. So I dont find Halifaxs 
proposed deduction  for breakdown cover to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of 
Miss Ds case.
The above leads me to the overall conclusion  that Halifax  needs to do more to put matters right for 
Miss D.    
fair compensation   what I think Halifax needs to do to put matters  right for Miss  D.
Having carefully thought about everything, Im intending to say that Halifax should put matters right in 
the following way:
Refund all the account  fees Miss D paid for her URCA
add interest at 8% per year simple on each fee from the date Miss D paid it to the date of 
settlement;
Ref: DRN16497256Halifax may deduct any overdraft  savings  Miss D made, from the above total,  as a result of having  
preferential overdraft  terms on her URCA, as long as it provides a detailed breakdown  of how it 
arrived at its figure.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Halifax to take tax from this interest.  Halifax must give Miss D a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im intending to uphold  Miss Ds complaint and say that Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax") should pay redress as set out above.
If Halifax or Miss D have anything further to add before  I issue my final decision, they should  ensure  
anything they send reaches me by 8 May 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1649725