K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough  to recover funds that were 
transferred to the wrong bank account.
background
Mr and Mrs L are partners  in a business  and they have a bank account with Santander.
Mr and Mrs L were  due to receive a payment for goods sold to one of their customers, but 
the payment didnt  arrive. It turned out the customer transferring the money had used  the 
wrong account number.
Santander said it received notification of this from Mr and Mrs Ls customers  building  
society. The building society asked for the money  to be refunded.  Santander checked the 
account the payment had gone to, but it had already  been  withdrawn   and wasnt  available 
for it to try and recover.
Santander then wrote to the account-holder  whod received the money. It said a payment 
error had been  raised and asked them to get in touch. Santander also says it tried to call the 
recipient of the payment  but hasnt been able to talk to them.
Mr and Mrs L dont think Santander  has done  enough. They say there was a genuine  error  
and believe  it should be easily  rectified, even though neither  the bank nor the building 
society was responsible for the initial mistake.
An investigator here looked into the matter and found  Santander  to have acted  in a timely 
manner once it was aware of the problem. But once Santander checked, the recipient of the 
money had already withdrawn it so the money  couldnt be protected  for recovery.  
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator.
Id like to say first of all that I can understand how disappointing Mr and Mrs L will find this. I 
appreciate the transfer was for a significant  sum of money and that Mr and Mrs L are 
frustrated that a simple  mistake can lead to such a loss.
The reason  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint though  is because  Santander has 
done what its required to in such circumstances. Once it became aware  of the mistake,  
Santander was prompt in its action. But the money was withdrawn from the account it had 
been transferred  to, so Santander couldnt place a hold on it  to keep it from being  taken 
out while the matter was looked into. If the money had still been in the account  it may have 
been more easily recoverable.
Santander wrote to the recipient to explain what had happened and to ask them to get in 
touch to discuss the matter. It would  then have been down to the recipient to contact 
Santander, so the money could be returned  to Mr and Mrs Ls customer.
Ref: DRN11404042Santander hasnt  been able to speak to the recipient  of the money, but its letter  said if the 
issue remains in dispute then the sender of the money will be within their rights  to pursue a 
claim (within  the courts or otherwise). I dont know if theyve done so, but Mr and Mrs L may 
wish to speak to their customer to see if anything further can be done by them.
Alternatively, Mr and Mrs L could  seek advice on what rights they may have to pursue the 
recipient of the payment,  or recover the goods. But thats not something we could  help with.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, while Ive a good  deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs L and their 
situation, I cant uphold  their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1140404