K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the service hes received from The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited.
background
Mr W is both a trustee and one of several beneficiaries of a discretionary trust.  The trust was set 
up in accordance with his late mothers will. The trust had invested money with Prudential.
In 2016 a decision was made to wind up the trust. Mr W says Prudential failed to provide clear 
information to enable him to withdraw  his segment  of the trust. This included  information about 
which forms of identification  were acceptable, particularly as Mr W resides outside the UK. Mr W 
says delays in him receiving payment  were  caused  by Prudential and have caused him a financial 
loss.
Mr W complained  to Prudential who responded and agreed that they had caused some delays. 
Their response said if things had progressed as they should,  Mr W wouldve received his payment  
on 9 August 2017 (rather than 19 September 2017  as it was). So they proposed and paid redress 
to Mr W. This totalled £294.31. It was made  up of 8% simple interest on the payment amount  
between those dates,  as well as a refund of the transfer charge and a gesture of goodwill payment 
of £175. This was paid to Mr W in November 2017. 
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He concluded there were 
some failings in the service provided by Prudential,  but that the offer theyd made was fair. He 
didnt recommend they needed to do more. Mr W doesnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint.  
On 30 October 2018 I issued a provisional  decision.  Following on from this there was further 
communication between  Mr W, Prudential and our service. So to draw everything  together  I 
issued a further provisional  decision  on 22 January 2019. Both these provisional decisions  
are attached to and form part of this decision. 
Mr W responded and made  a variety of further  points. Prudential  responded and said they 
had nothing further to add. Now both parties have had the opportunity  to respond,  I can go 
ahead with my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from my provisional  findings.  I understand this will be disappointing  for Mr W, so Id 
like to explain why. 
Mr Ws response to my most recent provisional decision indicated that he thought I hadnt 
placed enough weight on certain documents or that Id not fully appreciated their importance.  
With all due respect to Mr W, it is for me to decide  the weight I wish to place on any given 
piece of evidence.  And whilst I acknowledge he and I see things differently, my role requires 
that I apply  my judgement to make  my decision. 
Ref: DRN17689802Similarly, Mr W has indicated that he has made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to 
Prudential as he wants to submit all the information  they hold for my consideration. It is 
again my decision  as to when  I feel I have enough information upon which to base my 
decision. Im satisfied both Mr W and Prudential have had ample opportunity  to present 
evidence and arguments and that I am now in a position to issue my decision. 
As Ive previously explained, we are an informal dispute resolution service.  A more forensic 
approach to dealing with the dispute would  be achieved  through court proceedings. Ive 
considered the complaint within the framework of what I consider to be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. On occasions this might mean Im not providing the level of detail  
that Mr W would like, but that is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service and isnt 
intended as a discourtesy. 
Before the assignment  of the trust into the segments for each  beneficiary,  as trustee, Mr W 
is eligible to complain on behalf of the trust.  And after the assignment,  Mr W himself is a 
customer of Prudential and able to complain in his own right.  For simplicity, Ive looked  at his 
complaint as a whole and proceeded with my decision on this basis.
My thoughts and reasoning are included  within the attached provisional decisions. So Ill only 
provide further  commentary where its necessary  to address the additional points Mr W 
raised in response  to my provision decision dated  22 January 2019.
the date of receipt
Mr W doesnt accept that the documents sent to Prudential on 23 May 2017 werent received 
until 15 June 2017. He thinks the burden of proof to evidence the date of receipt is on 
Prudential, who he thinks should seek further  evidence from Royal  Mail.  Mr W has provided  
strong evidence of proof of posting and doesnt feel Prudential have provided strong 
evidence for their position. 
Ive listened carefully  to both parties  in relation  to this issue.  And I again acknowledge it is 
unusual for something  posted first class to take so long to reach its recipient. But for the 
reasons outlined previously, I remain of the opinion that Prudential  arent  responsible for 
delays between 23 May 2017  and 15 June 2017 as there is insufficient evidence  to 
persuade me that the documents  in question were received prior to that date.
time taken  to assign  the trust into segments
Prudential took from 15 June 2017 until 5 July 2017  to assign the trust into its respective 
segments. This represents 15 working days.  The trust was to be divided  into several 
segments. And some of those segments related to individuals who resided outside the UK. 
As such I think  15 working days is a reasonable time considering the work that would have 
been involved. Particularly  with regard to the verification of documentation originating 
outside the UK which may have been less familiar to Prudentials staff.
I understand Mr W feels five working days would  be a generous time period for this work to 
be completed. But Prudential would have  presumably  been dealing with numerous requests 
from many  customers, not solely Mr Ws, and I just dont think the 15 days it took is an 
unreasonably long time.  
Mr W has highlighted Prudentials initial response to his complaint which  says I am sorry for 
the delays we have caused in processing the assignment of your policy and, ultimately, in 
paying your monies.  He says this is evidence that Prudential did cause delays. 
Ref: DRN17689803I understand Mr Ws scepticism of Prudential changing their position.  But as I explained  in 
my provisional decision, I dont think its unfair  for Prudential to conduct  a further review in 
the course of dealing  with Mr Ws complaint and to come  to a different outcome as a result. 
Particularly as Prudentials position is that they have already compensated Mr W for a 
greater delay than they are responsible  for, but they arent seeking or asking that any of 
what theyve already paid be returned. 
Mr W further points  out that Prudentials letters dated 5 and 19 July 2017 must be incorrect. 
These letters said that he had been assigned his segment of the policy. Mr W says that had 
that been the case, Prudential would be in breach  of Anti-Money Laundering (AML) 
requirements. This is because at that point they didnt acknowledge that they held the 
correct identification  for him. 
I think its quite reasonable that Prudential completed all the required work to assign the 
trust, pending the approval of their AML requirements. So that once the documentation was 
received everything  could  promptly  be processed. I cant see that Prudential  stopped  
working on assigning Mr Ws segment of the policy whilst mistakenly  awaiting  the 
documentation they already had. So whilst  Im confident Prudential  wouldnt have allowed an 
encashment of the segment until they had satisfied their AML requirements,  I dont think  they 
caused delays  in the assignment itself.
Mr W points out that until assignment, the trust is the customer  of Prudential and as such  
there was a requirement for his solicitor to deal with Prudential  about this matter.  He would 
like some of his legal costs reimbursed.
But Im still not persuaded that chasing up missing identification is something that requires 
the involvement of a solicitor. So I dont think Prudential need  to consider reimbursing any of 
the legal  fees incurred.  
discretion over the six month deadline
Mr W says that neither the 2007  nor 2017 Money  Laundering Regulations stipulate a six 
month time limit in relation  to the validity of documents. Its up to an individual  business  how 
they choose to satisfy  themselves of their AML obligations. This is a business decision  for 
Prudential and not something  I would seek to interfere with. 
Mr W also says that Prudential  did apply  discretion  when assigning his segment  of the trust 
after finding  they had his identification in early August  2017.  He points out that it was already 
beyond six months old at that point. On this basis he feels it is unreasonable for Prudential, 
given the circumstances, not to allow the same  discretion in relation to his withdrawal  
request. 
Ive thought carefully about this point.  But in terms of the assignment,  it became apparent  
that the documents were  within the six month period  of validity when Prudential  received  
them on 15 June 2017. So on that basis, I dont think Prudentials  decision was 
unreasonable. Im sure it was preferable to Mr W that Prudential dealt with it in that way, 
rather than re-requesting more recent identification for the purposes of assignment.  
But I dont think that this necessarily means  they have to do the same in relation to the 
withdrawal request. This wasnt made  until 15 August  2017  and again the decision as to how 
to meet  their AML requirements is one Prudential are entitled  to make. 
Ref: DRN17689804what should have  happened?
Where a business makes  a mistake, I expect them to try to put their customer  back  in the 
position they wouldve been  in, had the mistake  not happened. Mr W has provided his own 
detailed account  of what he believes should  have happened. This concludes that Prudential  
are responsible for 88 days of delays. 
But as I disagree  that Prudential  are responsible for the delays that he has used as the basis  
for what he thinks should have happened, it wont add any value for me to provide further 
commentary. 
Mr W has also challenged what Ive set out as to what  I think wouldve happened, were it not 
for Prudentials error of not realising they had Mr Ws identification.  Ive thought  carefully 
about this point. I acknowledge the communication Mr W references between  his solicitor 
and Prudential, and I have re-reviewed it. Mr W says this is evidence that he would  have 
requested a withdrawal  as soon as possible.  He has also reiterated that this was always  his 
intention and has highlighted that Prudential would have accepted  photocopies of 
identification for the purposes of a withdrawal. 
Ive considered this, but the first time making  a withdrawal is mentioned,  is in Mr Ws call 
with Prudential on 15 August 2017. This call seems to have at least  in part have been 
prompted by Mr W receiving a statement that day which is referenced in the call. As I 
acknowledged in my provisional decision, I dont dispute that in looking at what would have 
happened, Mr W could  have made  his withdrawal within July. But taking everything into 
consideration including the reasons set out in my provisional decision of 22 January 2019, 
on the balance  of probabilities, I dont think he would have done.  
It follows that for the reasons  Ive previously set out, I dont  think Prudential need  to do more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17689805copy of provisional decision 
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made considerable submissions in bringing  his complaint. And whilst I dont  intend to respond in 
similar detail, I have  read all his correspondence  and taken it into account  when making  my decision. So if I 
dont mention any particular point or piece  of evidence  it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr W doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature  of our service. 
Before the assignment of the trust into the segments for each beneficiary, as trustee, Mr W is eligible  to 
complain on behalf of the trust. And after the assignment, Mr W himself is a customer  of Prudential  and able 
to complain in his own right.  For simplicity,  Ive looked at his complaint as a whole and proceeded  with my 
decision on this basis. 
November 2016 to March  2017
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt  think Prudential were  responsible for delays between 
November 2016 and March  2017. Mr W has said that whilst he still disagrees he is prepared  to 
concede on this part of the complaint. As such I have no further  comments  to add on this point. 
March 2017 to May 2017 
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt  think Prudential were  responsible for delays 
between March 2017  and May 2017. Neither  party challenged this in their responses and so again  I 
have no further comments to make on this point. 
May 2017 to June 2017
Mr Ws solicitor M sent Prudential  his deed of assignment  and associated identification documents  
on 23 May 2017. Mr W has kindly provided proof of posting  to show this was sent on that date. I 
accept that this is when the documents were sent first class to Prudential. 
Prudential say they didnt  receive these documents until 15 June 2017, which Mr W doesnt accept. 
He says its far more likely that they received them  shortly after the 23 May 2017. In support of this he 
has provided  a report from Royal Mail which shows that within the relevant time period over 93% of 
first class mail was delivered the following  day. 
I asked Prudential  about their procedures for incoming mail. They explained  that all incoming mail is 
scanned into their system on the day of receipt. The only exceptions to this are when  there is 
insufficient information to identify the correct customer within the documents  (clearly not applicable to 
Mr Ws case).  Or if there was some sort of system failure  that prevents the scanning.  In both of these  
instances Prudential  say the documents  would  be manually stamped with the date of receipt. 
Prudential have also supplied a screen shot of their system which  they say shows the documents 
were scanned  in on 15 June 2017.  Mr W disagrees and says he doesnt accept  the date on the 
document is proof of the date of receipt. Hes highlighted  a letter to him from Prudential  dated  19 July 
2017 which had a date at the bottom of 23 August  2017.  He also says he phoned  Prudential himself 
and was told they wouldnt definitively be able to say when the letter was received. So based  on this 
he doesnt accept Prudentials  explanation. 
Ive carefully considered this point.  I agree it is unusual for something posted first class  to take so 
long to reach  its recipient.  I accept a call handler  may have told Mr W they couldnt say when they 
Ref: DRN17689806received the document.  But I find Prudentials  response to my enquiry about  their incoming post 
procedure more persuasive. 
Prudential have also explained that the letter Mr W refers to shows that date as it was rescanned into 
their system when they received it following  Mr W sending it back to them  as an attachment  to his 
letter dated 17 August 2017.
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think Prudential are responsible for delays between  23 
May 2017 and 15 June 2017. This is because on balance, Im not persuaded there is sufficient  
evidence to show they received the documents before that date. 
15 June 2017 to 5 July 2017
Mr W says that the assignment of his segment of the trust taking until 5 July 2017 is an unreasonable 
delay. He thinks  this should have taken no more than five working days. 
Prudential have explained that they dont  have a set timescale for dealing with segmented 
assignments of this nature. But they felt that the time taken wasnt unreasonable given  the amount of 
documentation that needed  verification and the work required to assign each segment. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, I agree that this isnt an unreasonable  delay. So I dont think 
Prudential need to do more  in relation to this point. 
5 July 2017 onwards
Prudential wrote  to M on 6 July 2017 explaining that the trust had been assigned into its various 
segments. They also said they required some further proof of address for Mr W. It is now accepted 
that this was incorrect and that Prudential already  had the identification they needed.  Asking  for it 
again was an oversight on their behalf.
Prudential wrote  to Mr W on 19 July 2017 confirming  that his segment had been assigned to him and 
providing some information about making a withdrawal.  On 4 August  2017 in a phone  call between M 
and Prudential,  the mistake was discovered and Prudential acknowledged they did have Mr Ws 
identification documents.
Where a business makes  a mistake our approach  is to, as far as is possible, put the consumer back 
in the position they would have been in, had the mistake not happened. 
If the mistake hadnt happened I think Prudential still would have written to M on 
6 July 2017 and Mr W on 19 July 2017 confirming assignment  of his segment, but obviously  not 
requesting further identification. This would  have left Mr W in the position of needing to obtain,  
complete and return the relevant forms to make his withdrawal.  
Mr W contacted Prudential on 15 August 2017 by phone  to find out how to make a withdrawal. He 
says he didnt  do so sooner  because he knew that Prudential wouldnt  have allowed  him to make a 
withdrawal until the issue around his identification  had been resolved. And whilst this was resolved on 
4 August 2017, the delay between then and his contact with them  on the 15 August 2017 was 
because he was on holiday.  
Although Mr W says he would have made the withdrawal request as soon as he could, Ive also 
considered what other evidence there is from around the time to support that. Mr W either knew or 
ought to have  known that the identity  documents  he sent in in May 2017 expired at the end of July. 
(It is a requirement that they are dated from within  the last six months and the bank  statement he 
submitted was dated 31 January 2017.) 
Ref: DRN17689807He had access  to the anti-money laundering documents (where this requirement was set out) and his 
own submissions support  he was aware of these as he says they formed part of his reasoning for not 
asking about a withdrawal sooner.  
Even if Mr W was under the impression  that he could have used the same identification for both the 
assignment and his withdrawal request, there was an imminent deadline  of the end of July 2017. This 
deadline was in place because  of the six months of validity on the bank statements  provided. They  
were approximately  four months old at the time of posting and by the date of receipt  they had only 
around six weeks of validity remaining. 
M wrote  to Mr W on 10 July 2017 to let him know about Prudentials request for further identification. 
And although this was followed up by M on his behalf in July, I cant  see that there was any particular  
urgency or that Prudential were made aware that Mr W urgently wanted  to make  a withdrawal. 
Particularly in the context  of the pending  expiry  of his documents  at the end of that month.  
Prudential say they had no indication  from Mr W ahead of his contact  on 15 August 2017 that he 
wanted to make a withdrawal. Mr Ws complaint is made with the benefit of hindsight, particularly  with 
regard to the exchange rate between the British pound (GBP) and Euro   which impacted on how 
much he went  on to receive. Indeed Mr Ws email to M dated 23 August  2017 included To conclude,  
everything seems to be progressing  well, except for the disastrous fall in the exchange rate of the 
British Pound against the Euro £100 = 109 Euros compared to £100 = 142 Euros a few months ago.
I dont think the language used within that email indicates that Mr W was particularly unhappy with the 
way things  were progressing at the time.  I find this evidence persuasive  as to his feelings  at the time. 
His main concern seems to be with the fall in value of the British Pound  and the impact of that.
Mr W has also detailed that he wasnt able to give instructions to Prudential during early August 2017 
as he was on holiday. And points out that he acted promptly upon his return, contacting them on 15 
August 2017.
I accept, were it not for Prudentials  mistake,  it might have been possible for Mr W to act very promptly 
to make a withdrawal request after learning  of the assignment of his segment shortly after 19 July 
2017. And that this could  have  been prior to the expiry of his identification documentation  at the end 
of July. But as Prudential explained during their call on 15 August 2017  they would request these  
documents again for a surrender of the policy   which would have impacted  on the already tight time 
schedule. And this combined with Mr Ws inability  to give instructions whilst away on holiday means 
Im not persuaded  this is something that would have happened sooner  than it did. 
Taking everything into consideration, irrespective  of Prudentials mistake,  Im not persuaded  that Mr 
W would have made his withdrawal  request sooner than he did on 15 August  2017.
Prudential say they were  only in a position to process Mr Ws withdrawal on 
4 September 2017 when the received  all the correct forms and documents. This was after initially  
declining Mr Ws request as he resubmitted the bank statements from January  2017, which by that 
time were beyond the six month limit. 
Prudentials form says that payment can take up to ten working days to reach  the recipient. I therefore 
would have expected this to show in Mr Ws account  on 18 September 2017 at the latest. Mr W 
received his payment on 19 September 2017, only one day later.
Prudentials initial complaint  response  offered and paid compensation as if the withdrawal should 
have been paid on 9 August 2017 (a delay of 41 days). This included a refund of the transfer charge, 
8% interest  on the amount  between  those dates and £175 as a gesture of good will. 
I dont think it is unfair for Prudential to conduct a further review in the course of dealing  with Mr Ws 
complaint. So regardless of how their initial compensation was calculated, Ive considered whether  it 
has resulted  in a fair outcome.  
Ref: DRN17689808Im of the opinion that Prudential  have already compensated Mr W for far longer delays than I think  
they are responsible for. So it wouldnt  be fair to ask them to do anything  more.  I agree that Prudential  
were only in the position to process Mr Ws withdrawal on 4 September  2017. As Ive explained  
above, despite his current position, Im not persuaded Mr W would  have requested the withdrawal 
sooner than he did, irrespective of Prudentials error. 
Mr W has pointed out that the compensation doesnt take into account the costs of calls and postage 
he incurred, the costs  of his solicitor dealing with Prudential about  their initial mistake,  nor the fall in 
value of the British pound (GBP) against  the Euro (as he is based in France and doesnt  have a GBP  
bank account.)
Ive thought about these  points and whilst  I understand Mr W had certain obligations to the trust in his 
capacity as trustee. I dont think this extends to M liaising with Prudential with regard to the missing 
identification. I cant  see that there is a requirement for a trained legal professional  to deal with such a 
matter. And if Mr Ws instructions to M extended to include them doing so on his or the trusts behalf  
I dont think Prudential are liable for the costs Mr W incurred.
My role is to step back and look at all thats happened and the complaint as a whole. And looking at 
everything in the round,  I think the compensation already paid to Mr W  for delay  and inconvenience  
which at the time the business overstated - is sufficient  to reflect losses arising from the difference  in 
exchange rates between 18 and 19 September 2017 and the cost of calls and postage in bringing  the 
complaint. So I dont intend  to ask Prudential to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN17689809copy of provisional decision 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont currently  intend to uphold it. I know this is very 
important to Mr W, so Id like to explain why. 
Mr W has made considerable submissions in bringing  his complaint. And whilst I dont  intend to respond in 
similar detail, I have  read all his correspondence  and taken it into account  when making  my decision. So if I 
dont mention any particular point or piece  of evidence  it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr W doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature  of our service. 
Before the assignment of the trust into the segments for each beneficiary, as trustee, Mr W is eligible  to 
complain on behalf of the trust. And after the assignment, Mr W himself is a customer  of Prudential  and able 
to complain in his own right.  For simplicity,  Ive looked at his complaint as a whole and proceeded  with my 
decision on this basis. 
November 2016 to March  2017
Mr W says his solicitor  M first tried to contact Prudential  for information in November 2016  and that they 
didnt receive a satisfactory response until March 2017. Prudential say they have checked their systems and 
have no record of any contact from M until March 2017. 
Ive also considered that M, in their email to Mr W dated 2 March  2017,  make reference to an unhelpful  
reply received from Prudential through another business.  So it is possible M had been seeking information in 
the first instance through a third party. But in any case it is clear M thought  they had enough  information  by 2 
March 2017 with regard to what forms of identification were required.  
I dont think there is evidence  to support that Prudential are responsible for providing Mr W (or M as his 
representative) with poor service within  this time period. 
March 2017 to May 2017
It appears that between March and May Mr W was in the process  of obtaining certified copies of suitable 
identification and forwarding  this to M. M submitted  this along with a deed  of assignment  form to Prudential 
on 23 May 2017. So I dont  think this period of time was subject to delays  caused by Prudential.
June 2017 onwards
Prudential say they received  Ms correspondence  on 15 June 2017. And whilst it appears to have taken  a 
few weeks  to reach them, I dont think this can fairly be blamed on Prudential.  This correspondence  included 
a certified copy of one of Mr Ws bank  statements.
On 5 July 2017 Prudential wrote to M and confirmed that Mr Ws segment of the trust had been assigned  to 
him  but said they still needed proof of address for him.
On 19 July 2017  Prudential  wrote to Mr W to say that his segment of the trust had been assigned  to him and 
provided some instructions about how to make withdrawals. 
In a phone call between M and Prudential that took place on 4 August 2017, Prudential said they had Mr Ws 
certified proof of address and that it mustve been  missed previously prior to their request on 5 July 2017.  
Prudential have now acknowledged that this was an error  on their part. 
Ref: DRN176898010Where a business makes  a mistake, I would  expect  them  (as far as is possible)  to put the customer back in 
the position they wouldve been in had the mistake not happened. I think all sides are in agreement  that 
Prudential made an error in failing  to realise they had Mr Ws certified  proof of address on 15 June 2017. But 
in the circumstances  of this complaint  I dont think this has caused Mr W a loss or led to further delays. 
The initial instructions from M were to assign Mr Ws segment of the trust. Prudential confirmed  this had 
happened in their letters of 5 and 19 July 2017. So I dont think  the error  impacted on the assignment of the 
trust. But for Mr W to make a withdrawal, he had to submit a further form.  Prudential received this form from 
Mr W on 23 August  2017 which was dated 17 August  2017. 
Ive looked at the form Mr W submitted and it states  in relation to the identity  requirements that the proof of 
address needs to be current. And current  is further defined as within the last six months. I think  this is 
clear and I think it is a decision for Prudential as to which forms of identification they deem necessary to 
satisfy their regulatory obligations. The proof of address Mr W submitted  was a bank statement dated 
between 31 December 2016 and 31 January  2017, along with a covering  letter from the bank dated  15 
February 2017. 
So by the time Mr W submitted his withdrawal request,  the statement was already more than six months old 
and therefore not acceptable to Prudential. There was then further contact between  Mr W and Prudential  
which resulted in him submitting further documents to satisfy the six month requirement. This was received 
by Prudential on 4 September 2017 leading to settlement being made on 19 September  2017. 
Following their further review of the complaint Prudential say they were only in a position  to process  Mr Ws 
withdrawal on 4 September 2017. And from everything Ive seen, Im inclined to agree. Mr W submitted his 
withdrawal request on 17 August 2017, so he was always going to have to provide a more up to date proof of 
address. As the statements hed previously  provided were six months old at the end of July 2017. 
As it stands Mr W has been  compensated  for a delay between 9 August  and 19 September  2017, had his 
international transfer  fee refunded and been  provided with £175 as a gesture of goodwill. I agree  that the 
delay between 4 September and 19 September is longer than the five days  Prudential say the process 
should take. And I also accept that Mr W incorrectly  being told he hadnt submitted the right documents  
wouldve caused some trouble and upset.
Prudential also say that the amount Mr W wouldve  received on 4 September 2017 is the same as what  he 
went on to receive on 19 September  2017. But the delay  he has been compensated  for is longer than the 
delay I think Prudential are responsible for. And the compensation theyve paid is greater than what Id 
recommend in these circumstances.  So for these reasons, I dont think it would  be fair for me to direct 
Prudential to do any more.
Ref: DRN1768980