K820x#14complaint
Ms Ls unhappy with Aviva Health UK Limiteds  decision  to decline her claim. 
background
Ms L has private medical  insurance  with Aviva.  Following some treatment she had at 
hospital in May 2018 she made  a claim for physiotherapy.
Ms L said she wanted to have physiotherapy at the hospital recommended by the surgeon 
who completed the operation. And that Aviva had unfairly declined  her claim, despite  the 
letter of recommendation she provided  it from the specialist. 
Aviva said the hospital was not within its approved network and therefore would not provide 
cover. It also said it considered the letter Mss L provided, recommending treatment at the 
hospital, but noted there was no clinical reason given as to why Ms L should be treated 
there.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ls complaint because she thought Aviva had acted 
reasonably. She said Avivas entitled  to offer physiotherapy using its approved network.  She 
also agreed there was no clinical reason given that would have led Aviva to change its 
position here. 
Ms L didnt  agree with the findings  and so its for me to make a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be 
recommending Aviva  do anything more.  The reason I say this is because I dont think its 
made a mistake.  Ill explain  why.
Aviva, like most health insurers,  has an approved  network of medical practitioners and 
hospitals, with whom it has agreements to carry  out a number of approved  treatments. In the 
circumstances of this particular case there is no exception. Aviva was able to provide cover 
for the treatment Ms L needed through one of the facilities within  its approved network. But 
Ms L wanted to be seen  by the physiotherapist recommended by the specialist. 
Theres no obligation on Aviva to accommodate this, given what  Ive just explained. 
However, I note this was something it gave consideration to when it asked Ms L to provide a 
letter from the specialist  explaining why she should be treated at her preferred  hospital.  But 
the letter did not give any clinical reason for this, it said;
As this patient has significant swelling and reduced mobility,  she would benefit from post-
operative physiotherapy. I have recommended she book an appointment with the physio at 
[hospital name]
The specialists letter simply said Ms L would benefit from physiotherapy, which  she could 
have received anywhere within  Avivas approved network. And although theres a 
recommendation she book the appointment at the hospital, theres not a clinical reason 
given why she should be treated there.  So I find Avivas decision not to offer cover  a 
reasonable one.
Ref: DRN13323562I note Ms Ls comments that after careful  consideration, she decided to go ahead  with 
physiotherapy at the hospital  recommended by the specialist and I understand the reasons 
she gave for this. But I dont think Aviva  should  reimburse her for these costs. I say this 
because of the following policy term;
If you have  in-patient, day-patient  or out-patient treatment for a condition  or suspected
condition for which we have a network  but your treatment isnt carried out at a facility
recognised by us as part of that network or under  the care of a specialist or other practitioner
recognised by us as part of that network we will not pay for your treatment
And so because Aviva could have offered Ms L treatment under its approved  network, but 
she chose not to access it, then Aviva  is not liable to cover  any of the treatment costs she 
occurred. I find this a fair and reasonable outcome, not least, because Ms L was given all the 
relevant information  and knew Aviva  had not approved treatment at the hospital  of her 
choice. She understood this and still went ahead  with her preferred  hospital. So I believe she 
made an informed choice in the awareness  this was not covered by her policy.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1332356