K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  his home insurer Allianz  Insurance Plc because  it has declined  a 
claim he made for his tools  which  were  stolen from a car.
background
Mr L was using a works  car. After having  done some  work for his daughter he parked the car 
and left it overnight. The car was broken into and his personal tools  were  stolen. Mr L made  
a claim and Allianz initially asked for validation for the items. However, it then noted that the 
circumstances of the loss fell outside of the definitions  applicable  on the policy.  Allianz told 
Mr L that his claim was declined and apologised  for having caused him to think it was 
accepted and being validated.
Mr L complained, pointing out to Allianz that his policy  schedule  showed cover had been  
selected for personal possessions. Allianz sent Mr L £50 compensation for the mistake  it had 
made but confirmed  the policy definitions meant there was no cover  available and the claim 
would remain declined.  
Our investigator noted the policy definitions and as a result, thought  Allianz had acted fairly 
and reasonably in declining  the claim. In some later correspondence  with Mr L she noted  the 
mistake Allianz had made and the compensation  it had paid as a result.  Mr L asked for an 
ombudsmans consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret  for any further  upset  this causes Mr L, Im not going  to 
uphold his complaint. I think  Allianz has declined the claim in line with the policy  terms. It 
should have identified this at the outset, rather than asking for claim validation  details but 
I see its acknowledged this and paid compensation. I think  thats reasonable. 
Mr L is quite right in pointing out that his policy includes  cover  for personal possessions.  And 
I see that Allianz did consider whether this section of cover  would  apply but it concluded it 
did not. Ive reviewed the applicable policy wording below.
Contents in the policy  are defined as household goods. And there  is cover  for theft of 
contents items but this applies where  they are stolen from the home or from within  the 
boundaries of the home. That wasnt the case for Mr L.
There is cover for contents  temporarily away from home. But this excludes theft except in 
certain circumstances.  None of which apply here.
The policy includes  cover for personal possessions. But the policy  defines what  is meant by 
this term. It says personal possessions are items  that are designed to be worn or normally  
carried. That isnt the case  with tools. But the definition  goes on to say that certain things are 
specifically not considered to be personal  possessions (even  if they are designed  to be worn  
or normally carried). 
Ref: DRN10965042One of those specific exclusions is household goods . The policy doesnt further define that 
term but I think its a broad generalised term that doesnt seem inappropriate in the context 
here. There also arent any other definitions that apply within  the policy  that might  fit better.  
The tools  cant fairly be described as clothing or valuables for example. And they are items 
bought for use in and by the household.   So I think Allianz conclusion that Mr Ls tools are 
fairly classified as household goods is fair and reasonable. The personal  possessions cover 
that Mr L has then doesnt  offer him cover for this loss.
I realise this is frustrating for Mr L. Unfortunately insurance policies dont offer cover  for 
everything or for every  eventuality that might occur. I know  Mr L thinks  Allianz didnt like the 
fact he had little validation for his items  and so has used the policy  small print to get out of 
the claim.  I dont think this is the case. From what Ive seen I think  the nature of the tools 
was initially overlooked. That is poor claim  handling  but I note Allianz has accepted that. 
Mr L hasnt been  put in any worse  positon  because of Allianz failure as his claim wasnt  
covered in the first place. He has suffered a loss of expectation because he was led to 
believe that Allianz was going to process his claim  but Im satisfied that the £50 Allianz  
paid is fair and reasonable compensation for the upset that was caused. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1096504