K820x#14complaint
Miss W and Mr E complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) is acting 
unfairly and unreasonably  by refusing to let them transfer (port) a mortgage  product to a 
property that they already own. They want the port to be allowed or a refund of the early 
repayment charge  (ERC) claimed.
background
Miss W and Mr E had a mortgage  product with Halifax, which  if repaid early  would  mean that 
theyd have to pay an ERC. Miss W and Mr E wanted to move to another  property that they 
already owned  (the second property), and sell the property secured by the mortgage.  They  
asked Halifax to port the mortgage  to the second  property.  It said that it wasnt  possible as 
its lending policies did not allow existing mortgage  products  to be ported to properties that 
the consumer  already  owned. Miss W and Mr E said this wasnt explained  to them  when 
they took out the product  they were just told that it was portable  (without  the benefit of the 
discount given  to staff). 
Miss W and Mr E complained to Halifax, saying that its position  wasnt fair and other lenders 
were much clearer  about this policy. Halifax said that Miss W and Mr E didnt tell it when 
taking out the product that they may want to port the product to a property that they already 
owned; it said that if it had been  told this, it wouldve told Miss W and Mr E then that this 
wouldnt be allowed. Halifax also pointed out that the first property was put on the market  for 
sale while  the mortgage product was being taken  out, but it wasnt  told about this significant 
change in circumstances. And it noted  that porting applications were  always subject to the 
lending policies in place at the time of application.
Miss W and Mr E complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Halifax wasnt at fault. 
He noted that Miss W was employed  by Halifax and the lending policy didnt permit a 
mortgage product  to be ported to a property already owned by the consumer. The 
adjudicator said that Halifaxs  information  made  it clear that porting  was dependent on the 
lending policies in place at the time.  He thought that Miss W and Mr E hadnt told Halifax  that 
they were moving  to a property that they owned when talking to Halifax about the ability  to 
port the product.  He said Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably  in applying its policies. 
Miss W and Mr E disagreed. They  said that Halifax told them  that the mortgage product was 
portable and when they applied, they didnt intend to move  into a property that they already 
owned. Miss W and Mr E felt that the position  should be made clearer to consumers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W and Mr E accept that the ERC was known to them and havent challenged whether 
its a genuine  pre-estimate  of the cost to Halifax if the mortgage  product is repaid early. Their 
complaint is that either the policy preventing porting to a property already owned by them  
shouldve been  disclosed earlier or that it shouldnt be applied  at all to them.
Ref: DRN18154762Lenders are able to set their own lending policies and use their commercial judgement, 
providing that they apply the policy fairly and reasonably. Lending  policies can be 
confidential and change often. While some lenders may choose to publish this particular 
policy, it isnt unfair  or unreasonable  not to do so. The most common industry position is to 
simply say that porting  applications will be considered on the basis of the lending policies in 
place at the time.
In relation to Miss W and Mr Es specific case, having considered all the evidence available  
to me about their discussions with Halifax when taking out the product, they never asked 
about being able to port the mortgage  to a property that they already  owned. And I cant see 
that at any point Miss W and Mr E mentioned this as a possibility. Even Miss W and Mr E 
say that they didnt  intend to do this when applying for the product.  
It wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Halifax not to mention the policy  when the application  for 
the product was made. And as lending policies do change often, its possible that Halifax  
mayve changed  this policy so I wouldnt expect it to be mentioned unless the consumers 
said that this was a possibility  for the future. I also note that Miss W and Mr E didnt tell 
Halifax that they were  about to place the first property on the market while  applying  to 
borrow more money  secured on that property, despite this being  a significant change.
Miss W and Mr E have complained that the policy has been applied  to them. But as its a 
policy applied to all consumers, I cant say thats unfair or unreasonable.  And given that 
Halifax wasnt told originally that Miss W and Mr E might want  to port to a property already 
owned by them, I cant say that its unfair or unreasonable to apply  the policy to them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W and Mr E to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1815476