K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from Aldermore Bank Plc (Aldermore)  
following his request to transfer an ISA from Virgin Money (Virgin). He feels  there  was a 
delay in completing the transfer which has led to him losing out financially.
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mr K and Aldermore so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Mr K had an ISA with Virgin which matured on the 24 December 2018. On the 
15 December 2018 Mr K completed  an application, online, with Aldermore to transfer that 
ISA. Aldermore made the transfer request to Virgin on the 17 December, although Mr K says 
Aldermore told him it was the 15 December. Upon receipt of the transfer instructions, Virgin  
placed the request on hold until the 24 December  when the ISA matured. 
On the 24 December, Virgin told Aldermore that the request had been accepted, and on the 
27 December Aldermore  replied that they were ready to receive the funds. The funds were 
then transferred that day.
Aldermore do not consider  that they have done anything wrong, and have rejected Mr Ks 
complaint. They did tell Mr K in their final response letter  that they sent an Accept and 
Ready message  electronically to Virgin on the 24 December  at 11.44am, and then received 
the funds on the 27 December. However they now accept that they actually  sent the 
Accept and Ready  message on the 27 December.
Mr K was unhappy with Aldermores  response  and so the adjudicator looked into the 
complaint but didnt  think Aldermore had acted unfairly. As Mr K didnt  agree,  the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. I do not perform  the role of the industry 
regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make rules for financial businesses, punish them, 
or direct that they change their processes.  That falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  
Authority. 
I need to consider whether Aldermore  acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr K. I 
take into account both their view and that of Mr K. My aim is to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the evidence before me. Where that evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive  
or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities   in other 
words, I consider what is more likely to have  happened in the light of the available  evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  
Ref: DRN11893182The adjudicator looked at the HMRC guidelines  and noted that transfers between cash  ISAs 
should not take longer  than 15 working days.  As far as I can see, irrespective of whether the 
transfer took place on the 24 or the 27 December, it was nevertheless  completed  within  that 
period. So I cant  say Aldermore acted unfairly in this respect  since  the transaction was 
carried out in accordance  with the guidelines.
Mr K is understandably concerned that he was given a different date for the actual transfer  
by Aldermore in their final response  letter.  He characterises that as a lie. Im afraid  I dont 
agree, and I think on the balance of probabilities it was a simple error on Aldermores part. 
They have explained what has happened  here to our adjudicator, that being  that because  
the BACS system only works Monday  to Friday, the funds  were not transferred until the 
Monday the 27 December. That is a reasonable explanation and I accept it. So whilst I 
accept that there has been an inconsistency as Mr K points out, I do not consider that it 
amounts to unfairness.
Mr K has also asked  for an official policy statement on when the 15 day transfer  period  
should run from, be it the date he made  the request for transfer, or the date of the ISA 
maturity. I can confirm  that I cannot give any official  policy  statement on behalf of this 
service. My own view, in the circumstances of this case, is that it ran from the date of 
maturity.
So, I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. So I cant  say Aldermore have acted 
unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Aldermore Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1189318