K821x#15Complaint
Mrs L complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) failed to fully settle her claim 
for accident damage to the water  supply pipes to her property,  leaving  her with pipes that 
were still leaking.
Background
Mrs L had building  insurance for her property with RSA. She was contacted  by her water 
supplier making her aware  of an escape of water from the supply pipes she was responsible  
for. Mrs L made a claim against her building  insurance for accident damage to the leaking 
pipes.
RSA sent contractors to look at the leak. The pipes were underground,  and the contractors 
dug down to the pipes  and found them to be a type of plastic pipe. They identified a leak that 
was described as stone  damage.  This leak was repaired, and RSA paid for the repair  works. 
Mrs L paid her £100 excess on the claim.
This repair didnt solve  the problem though, as there was a further leak in another part of the 
underground pipe.  RSA wouldnt fix the other leaks. RSA said the damage was excluded by 
the wear  and tear condition of Mrs Ls policy.
Mrs L wasnt happy with RSAs response so brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered  the evidence and thought that RSA didnt  have the evidence  to show 
that the pipe was leaking because of wear and tear, so upheld the complaint.
RSA didnt agree with our investigators  view,  so this has been referred for an ombudsman 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will be upholding this complaint for similar  reasons to our investigator.  I understand this will 
be disappointing for RSA, but I will explain why I think this is fair.
Mrs L initially made a claim for damage to the pipes in question. RSA accepted that the leak 
to the area they repaired was due to stone damage  and so was covered. At that point it was 
accepted that the leak was because of an insured peril and so they repaired the leaking  part 
of the pipe.
The repair that RSAs  contractors made  didnt  entirely fix the problem. A further leak was 
identified in another part of the pipe on neighbouring property. RSA rejected the rest of the 
claim. RSA told Mrs L You are not covered for loss or damage  caused by wear  and tear or 
reduction in value . This is an exclusion in Mrs Ls insurance policy,  and was the thing RSA 
relied on in declining this claim. Because RSA chose to use the exclusion for wear and tear 
to decline this claim, the onus is on them to prove that was the reason the pipes failed.
Ive looked at the evidence they relied  on to reach that conclusion. No survey was done  to 
locate the remaining leak or leaks. So RSA havent presented any evidence  of the actual 
cause of the leak. RSA had evidence  of an excavated area of pipe on Mrs Ls driveway 
which was the section they repaired.  The contractor report  stated that after they repaired a 
Ref: DRN15153412nine-metre section of that pipe  which was the leak they found - their testing revealed  a 
further leak. The report said, this will be the third leak on this supply which  will be down  to 
the poor condition  of the black poly pipe. Theres no additional explanation for me to be able 
to determine what is meant by poor  condition. RSAs presumption is that a leak elsewhere 
in the pipe must be because of its condition.
RSA sought clarification from their contractor  who then explained that on a further  return  
visit, we hand  excavated  a further  16m of pipework to find further issues  with the condition  of 
the pipework,  although not leaking within this section. Whilst this would tend to provide  
further clarification that they had concerns about  the quality of the plastic  pipe it again  lacked 
detail. The second area excavated had no leaks. So doesnt really help explain why the pipe 
was leaking elsewhere.
RSA havent provided  detail  to explain in what way the existing pipe was worn.  There  was no 
explanation provided into what had specifically  caused the leaks  in the area of pipe that RSA 
replaced. That isnt by itself a problem but would be useful now in assessing whether it was 
fair to assume that the rest of the pipe was obviously  worn  out. The insurance claim 
accepted that the damage to the replaced  section was stone damage too, which  doesnt  
imply the replaced part of the pipe failed because of wear. The contractors report that RSA 
relied on doesnt provide enough  detail to convince me that the pipes  are worn to the point 
that any other leaks along their length  must be due to wear  and tear. So I dont  think it was 
fair or reasonable  of RSA to decline Mrs Ls claim for the reason they did.
I can see from the location of the pipe in the neighbouring property that access was 
problematic. I dont  think that the fact that obtaining access  rights was difficult was a reason  
not to have properly investigated  this claim. RSA have also said that this was not a factor in 
their decision.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont think that RSA dealt with Mrs Ls claim in a fair or 
reasonable way. The reasons that RSA have relied  on to decline Mrs Ls claim cannot fairly 
be supported. In order to put this right RSA should  settle Mrs Ls claim for the remaining 
leak.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to settle the remaining 
part of Mrs Ls existing  claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy, bearing  in 
mind my finding that they cannot exclude  the claim for the reason they did.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1515341