K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Allianz  Insurance Plc refused to pay his pet insurance  claim or to refund 
him the policy premium  in full.
background
In March 2018, Mr Ts late father took out a pet insurance policy with Allianz to cover  his 
dog. The policy was later transferred  to Mr T. In September  2018,  Mr T made a claim against 
the policy for the investigations and treatment  of his dogs illness in July and August 2018. 
Allianz refused  to pay these claims as these included home visits which  werent covered by 
the policy. They also refused to pay a claim for cystitis as this fell under an exclusion  for 
Urinary System  Disorders. Allianz  added this specific  exclusion to the policy  as it related to 
previous treatment the dog had before the policy was taken out. As Allianz had refused to 
pay Mr Ts claims, he asked them to refund all the premiums he had paid since  the policy 
began in March  2018. 
Allianz didnt agree  to refunding all the premiums, but they did recognise that in June 2018, 
Mr T made them aware of home visits but wasnt told about relevant  policy  terms. So, Allianz  
agreed to refund the premiums  from June 2018 and pay £50 compensation. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome. He feels Allianz should refund all premiums since  the 
policy was taken out in March 2018.  An agreement couldnt be reached  so Mr T brought his 
complaint to this service.
The investigator at this service didnt  think  Allianz had done anything  wrong  and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
house visits
House visits were made by the vet in July and August 2019. Mr T tried to claim for these,  but 
Allianz refused  to pay out as they werent covered  under  the policy terms and conditions. 
The terms say, we will not cover any costs if the house visit was needed because of your 
personal circumstances. I understand from the information you provided  us that these home  
visits were needed  because Mr T was housebound and unable to take the dog to the vet. 
Whilst I appreciate that this was a situation  outside Mr Ts control, the terms and conditions 
are clear  that home  visits wouldnt be covered for personal circumstances. So, I dont  think 
Allianz have done anything  wrong in declining this element of the claim.
policy exclusions
Allianz refused  Mr Ts claim in August 2018 because the claim fell under an exclusion for 
Urinary System  Disorders. The policy  booklet says:-
Please read your Terms and Conditions for full details.
Ref: DRN19055882Exclusions and clauses,  additional to those contained in your Terms and Conditions  
are listed  below:
Excluding claims resulting from or connected to Urinary System Disorders from 
16/03/18This animal is added to the policy from 16/03/18
Your insurance does  not cover any illness  which  starts  in the first 14 days of your 
pet's first policy year or any pre-existing conditions. If your pet was ill or injured at 
any time before the cover for this pet started, we will not cover any claim relating to 
that illness or injury.
Cystitis was the diagnosis given by the vet and this is mentioned in the veterinary notes 
previously in 2017 and 2018  so it would be considered a pre-existing condition.  As Allianz 
were informed of this, they specifically excluded it from the beginning of the policy  in 
March 2018. It isnt unusual for a business to do this and would have to be included in the 
policy terms. I can see that this was included in Urinary System Disorders and is noted  on 
the Certificate of Insurance  on page 6 under Exclusions and Clauses. The exclusions are 
clearly listed, so I dont think Allianz  did anything wrong by refusing to pay the second claim 
under this exclusion. 
refund of premiums
I havent seen  any evidence for why Allianz  should  refund the three premiums paid between  
March and May 2018. Allianz did insure  the dog and the first claim Mr T made was covered 
under the policy.  I know Mr T feels that because no payment was made, he is entitled to a 
refund. But no payment  was made  because  the £58.51 balance that could be claimed  was 
subject to the excess payable on the policy, which was £95 per year.  The policy  terms say, 
Veterinary Fees  you will pay the first £95 of veterinary treatment for each unrelated illness  
or injury.  This is listed in the Certificate of Insurance on page 5 under Your Excesses. 
No balance was payable to Mr T, but this situation  was insured and covered under the policy 
regardless of whether any payment was made to Mr T. Allianz also continued to insure 
against other matters  that werent excluded.  So, Im not persuaded that Mr T should  be 
entitled to a refund of the policy  from the start. 
The policy was taken  out online in March 2018, but Mr T didnt speak to Allianz until 
June 2018. He told them in that call that he required home visits so Allianz should have 
advised him of the relevant terms and conditions excluding this. This didnt happen so 
Allianz offered  to refund all premiums  on the policy from June 2018  and award  Mr T £50 for 
distress and inconvenience. I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint 
and wont be asking  Allianz to do more than to honour this offer.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Ts situation, our role here is not to tell a business  how it should 
operate. We act as an independent body  to put things right when  things go wrong. I know 
Mr T will be disappointed with the outcome of this decision but if he remains unhappy with 
the way that Allianz have operated, I would suggest he contact the regulator,  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
Ref: DRN19055883my final decision
My final decision is that Allianz Insurance Plc should  settle  this complaint as they have 
already proposed to do, by refunding  Mr T the premiums from June 2018 onwards and 
paying £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1905588