K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about the sale of her State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme 
(SERPS) policy which she took out in 1989. 
background
Mrs A started a SERPS policy in 1989. At the time she was 22 years  old and employed with 
an annual income  of £5,000. The paperwork completed at the time of the sale confirmed that 
her employer didnt  provide  any pension provision. 
In 2018, Mrs A complained to Phoenix  about the sale of the plan. She said that she felt 
pressured into taking  it out and she was told that there wouldnt be a state pension by the 
time she came to retirement.  She  also complained that she wasnt  given any information to 
explain the risks of the policy, or the fees and charges that applied. 
Phoenix reviewed the complaint but it didnt think it had done anything  wrong.  It said that the 
advice to contract out of SERPS was suitable  for Mrs A at that time.  And it hadnt  found any 
evidence that Mrs A was told that the state pension wouldnt exist by the time she came to 
retire.   
Mrs A was unhappy with the response  so she referred her complaint to this service for 
consideration.  One of our investigators  reviewed matters but didnt  think Phoenix had done 
anything wrong. As Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the
conclusion the investigator reached, for mostly the same reasons.
I understand that Mrs A feels she was pressured into taking this plan out and that she was 
led to believe that the state pension wouldnt exist by the time she came to retire.  
I wasnt present at the sale of the plan so its difficult to say with any certainty,  nearly 30 
years later, whether any pressure was applied to Mrs A during the meeting with the Phoenix  
representative in 1989. And exactly what information  she was given about the plan and the 
availability of the state pension when  Mrs A retired. Thats not to say that I doubt  Mrs As 
testimony, but rather that Im unable to make a finding on this aspect now, in the absence of 
any other evidence  and given the passage of time.  
This services approach  in these circumstances is to look at whether the advice to start the 
pension was suitable at the time.  Having  considered  the relevant facts in Mrs As case, I 
agree with the investigators view that in 1989 Mrs A met the criteria in order to be eligible to 
contract-out of SERPS. 
Ref: DRN15751472When the Government decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS by way of an 
Appropriate Personal Pension (APP) policy, no advice was given as to which  individuals 
should be advised to remain in SERPS and those for whom it was expected  that contracting-
out would  be beneficial. Pension providers  actuaries carried out comparisons of the 
projected benefits from SERPS with those from the APP policy.  These calculations were  
based on what were  felt to be conservative assumptions of likely future investment returns.  
The rebates  paid by the Government were  set in such  a way that it was more  attractive  for 
younger individuals to contract-out  than those who were older and who were advised  to 
remain in SERPS.  The ages, where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out  or not 
changed, were called pivotal  ages.
The main  factors that were used to determine whether someone was likely to be better  off 
contracting-out of SERPS were  someones  age (and therefore the length of the period to 
retirement date) and their earnings. Mrs A was under the pivotal age at the time that she 
contracted-out. Further, her earnings were sufficient to offset  the effect of the plans charges. 
On the conservative  assumptions used at the time of the advice, it was therefore anticipated 
that Mrs A would be better off on retirement having  contracted-out of SERPS.  
In 1989 Mrs A contracted-out with effect  from the previous tax year  so 1987 - and her 
complaint should  be considered in the light of what was considered reasonable at the time. I 
can understand that Mrs A may be disappointed that the actual investment returns  from her 
contracted-out pension  plan have been lower than expected. But, given Mrs As 
circumstances, and on the basis that the assumptions were  considered  to be reasonable at 
the time,  contracting-out  of SERPS would  have appeared  to provide a reasonable prospect 
of providing better benefits at retirement.  
Accordingly, having carefully  considered all the circumstances at the time, Ive not been 
persuaded that the advice  to contract-out was unsuitable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1575147