K820x#14complaint
Mr D acquired  household fixtures, partly using his Nationwide  Building Society credit card.  
He complains that these  fixtures  were  mis-represented to him, and that they were not 
satisfactorily installed. He says that remedial works are required to the fixture,  and he wants  
Nationwide to pay for these works.
background
Mr D said:
The fixtures needed  to be designed,  supplied and installed
An important factor influencing his choice of provider was that he wanted a one stop 
shop service, combining these three functions   the provider he chose offered such 
a service  
The provider directly  designed and supplied the fixtures (including some  installation 
materials), but it used a sub-contractor  to install them 
He made  an initial  payment  to the provider  using his Nationwide  credit card
Subsequent  payments, including payments made directly to the sub-contractor,  were  
not made using  this credit card
He wanted  a particular design solution  for one of the fixtures,  which the provider 
initially offered to achieve
But, when installation  was beginning,  the provider changed its mind and said his 
preferred solution could not be achieved
The provider offered an alternative  solution,  which was not as good as his preferred 
design, but which he accepted
After the installation had been  completed, he became aware  that his preferred 
solution could  have been achieved, by using a particular component part
He complained to the provider, asking it why it had not made him aware  of this 
component, which would have enabled  his preferred solution to be delivered
The provider responded saying that it had not used  this component for several  years  
 the component had been found to be unsatisfactory, and was no longer offered by 
the provider
He also complained about the quality of work done by the installer
He was unable  to resolve his complaint, and so he referred it to Nationwide
Nationwide responded to Mr D, saying it did not uphold his complaint:
It was unable to conclude that the provider had mis-represented  the particular design 
solution to Mr D.
The provider and the installer were  not the same merchant, and were not associated 
in any way, according to Companies House records 
And so it did not accept that it had any responsibility for the installers work, because  
Mr D had not made any payments to the installer  using his Nationwide credit card
Mr D then referred his complaint to us. Our investigator agreed with Nationwides response. 
And so, at Mr Ds request, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN16319712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Nationwide has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied  in certain circumstances. These  
arise where there is a financial transaction directly linking a Debtor (Mr D, in this case), a 
Creditor (Nationwide) and a Supplier (Mr Ds chosen  provider and/or the installer)   called a 
DCS relationship.  
quality of work  done by installer
There is clearly  a DCS relationship between Mr D, Nationwide and the provider. (Mr D used 
his Nationwide  credit  card to make  a payment to the provider.)  And Mr D chose the provider, 
because he wanted  a one stop shop relationship, which he understood it offered.  
On the one hand (favoured by Mr D), it can be argued that the above DCS relationship 
includes the installer, because:
The installer is the providers sub-contractor
Mr Ds initial payment  to the provider  could be taken  as relating to the whole design, 
supply and install job
On the other hand (favoured  by Nationwide), it can be argued:
The provider and its sub-contractor are separate merchants  
The sub-contractor relationship in itself is not sufficient to establish  a DCS 
relationship
Mr Ds initial payment  to the provider  related  only to the design and supply of his 
household fixtures
Mr D made payments directly  to the installer  (but not using his Nationwide credit 
card), relating to the installation of these  fixtures
The above DCS relationship does not include  the installer  and no DCS relationship  
exists involving Mr D, Nationwide and the installer
On balance, I find the weight of argument  favours Nationwide.  And so I am unable to agree 
with Mr D that a DCS relationship exists, which would make Nationwide responsible for the 
quality of work done by the installer.
mis-representation by provider
The provider appears to have made a mistake in agreeing a design solution with Mr D that it 
could not achieve, using  its range of components.  
I understand Mr D was not aware  (at the time this mistake was realised)  that a component  
existed (albeit not in the providers range), which  would have enabled  his preferred solution 
to be achieved. And the provider did not tell him about that component. So he accepted a 
second best solution.  
Ref: DRN16319713I also understand that Mr D recently  agreed with another provider  to acquire different 
household fixtures.  This second provider told him about the component  needed for his 
preferred solution,  and he has asked  it to install that solution (replacing the second best  
solution implemented  by the first provider).  
Mr D wants Nationwide to pay for these remedial works (costing  £9,000).  I have to decide 
whether or not this constitutes a fair and reasonable outcome, in these circumstances.
If the provider had not realised its mistake, and had attempted to achieve the initially agreed 
solution, then I think Mr D would be able to argue that the fixtures  were not of satisfactory 
quality. Alternatively,  if the provider (having realised  its mistake) had not explained the 
situation to Mr D and agreed the alternative  solution  with him, then I think Mr D would be 
able to argue that the fixtures  had been  mis-represented.
But neither  of the above scenarios occurred. And Mr D appears  to be arguing,  in effect, that 
the provider intentionally deceived him: it mis-represented what  it could do  because it 
mistakenly offered  to achieve his preferred solution with its range of components, and then it 
failed to tell him that his preferred solution  could  be achieved by using components not in its 
range. 
 
The counter-argument is that the provider made  a genuine mistake, which it then tried to 
make good,  as best it could using its range of resources. And it implemented  an alternative  
solution with Mr Ds agreement. 
I sympathise with Mr D and, if I thought there was enough evidence  indicating that the 
provider had intentionally deceived him, then I would find in his favour. But, on balance, I am 
unable to do so  which means  that I have come  to the same  conclusion as our investigator.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1631971