K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC hasnt given him the money he has asked  for in two 
savings accounts.
background
Mr H complains that Lloyds has lost his TESSA and a mini cash ISA. He says he has 
provided Lloyds  with a copy  of a statement which covered both accounts dated April 2005,  
but Lloyds still cant find the accounts.  Mr H thinks he still has more than £1,100 in the 
accounts. He wants  that money returned to him with interest.
Mr H asked about the accounts in branch. He was advised to contact  TSB Bank  plc about 
them as the adviser he spoke to couldnt  trace the accounts, and a number of accounts  were 
transferred to TSB following a European Commission  ruling. He was also given information  
about how to locate dormant accounts using a service called My Lost Account.
Later Lloyds  told Mr H that the TESSA was made  dormant in November 2017 with a balance 
of £0.04. It has provided evidence  to show that it wrote to Mr H in July 2017  saying it was 
going to do this as the account had been inactive for more than 15 years.   The letter told him 
how he could reclaim the money. Mr H wasnt happy about this. He said this account wasnt  
one of the two accounts hed asked Lloyds to look for. He thinks  it was a joint account  he 
held with his wife. 
In May 2019  My Lost Account told Mr H that potentially an account had been  located and 
that he should contact Lloyds. When he did this, Lloyds told him that the account  in question 
was the account it had written to him about  in July 2017.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She understood why 
Mr H remained  unhappy, but she was satisfied that Lloyds  has checked its records. She 
could see that the only dormant account  found was the one it had already told him about.  
Lloyds records indicate that this account was a TESSA.  As no other information could be 
found about the accounts Mr H wanted  to know about, she didnt think Lloyds acted 
unreasonably when it told him that it didnt have  any more information to give him. She said 
that banks arent required  to keep records of an account closure for an indefinite period of 
time. And most records of this type are normally destroyed after six years.  So she wouldnt 
expect Lloyds to be able to say what happened to the money in the accounts. 
Our investigator also noted that Lloyds had paid Mr H £75 for the poor customer  service  it 
provided Mr H on the phone in March 2019.  Mr H accepted this. Our investigator  also 
thought that was reasonable  amount  of compensation in the circumstances.
Mr H remained  unhappy and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed. He thinks Lloyds must 
have more information about his accounts.  And he thinks its odd that the account  Lloyds 
found has a sort code,  when he understands that TESSAs dont have sort codes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I dont think Mr Hs complaint should 
be upheld either.
Ref: DRN12694212I understand why Mr H is frustrated by whats happened here. Its clear hes been trying to 
understand what happened to his money for some  time. He cant  recall withdrawing the 
money from the accounts, or closing them. He also thinks its odd that the account Lloyds 
has found has a sort code, and he understands that TESSAs  dont have sort codes.
Lloyds has provided  us with records of the searches it has carried  out for the accounts. It 
was pointed out that when  it receives queries about lost accounts, it searches its system for 
accounts using  all the data provided - not sort codes and account number.
So Im satisfied Lloyds  has searched its files and given this service  all the information it has. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for me to require it to do more  to find out 
what happened. Banks arent required to keep  records of closed accounts indefinitely, and 
will generally retain records  for only six years. So Im not surprised it doesnt  have more 
information about exactly what happened in this case.
I think its most unlikely  on balance  that Lloyds wouldve released the money in the 
accounts and closed them without taking reasonable steps to satisfy  itself that it was doing  
so on Mr Hs instructions. I accept I cant be sure about what  happened.  But Im not satisfied 
that Lloyds made a mistake in this case.  So I dont think it would be fair for me to require it to 
give Mr H the money  he thinks is still in the accounts.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1269421