K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide  Building Society  has charged him overdraft  fees on his 
accounts despite him having an agreed  overdraft in place on both.
background
Mr D says he opened his first Nationwide account in the late 1980s with an agreed overdraft 
facility. He says Nationwide asked him if he wanted  to upgrade  the account which he agreed  
to do. Mr D says he discovered that a new account  had in fact been  opened  and he had 
been charged for being overdrawn on both. Mr D would like all of the fees and charges 
refunded to him and has provided a letter from Nationwide which he says confirms he had 
an agreed overdraft facility.
Nationwide says the first account was opened in 1988 without an overdraft facility and says 
Mr D received regular statements which showed  that there wasnt  an overdraft facility. It 
says the second account  was opened by Mr D online and he didnt apply for an overdraft 
facility when he made that application. Nationwide has agreed to refund about £60 of 
charges and has cancelled future charges of £100  as a gesture of goodwill.  But says the 
charges were correctly  applied in line with account terms and conditions. It also says Mr D 
accessed internet  banking  regularly  and it wouldve been clear that his accounts  didnt  have 
an overdraft facility. It doesnt have a record of any call with Mr D around the time the 
second account was opened  in 2013.
Mr D brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it and thought Nationwide 
had dealt fairly with it. She thought Mr D had applied online for the second account and 
hadnt selected the overdraft option  and couldnt  see any evidence on Nationwides records  
about a phone call at that time. The adjudicator didnt  think  either account had an agreed  
overdraft facility and thought that was clear  from the account statements. So she thought the 
charges were correctly  applied in line with account terms and conditions. And thought  the 
letter that Mr D was sent was also sent to all customers and made  clear  that overdrafts 
were subject to status.
Mr D asks how a personally addressed letter  to him be regarded  as a circular  to all 
Nationwide customers.  He says Nationwide should  settle this matter out of court and would 
like a full investigation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr D will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds accounts which I think  he wouldve agreed 
to when the accounts were opened.  And Im satisfied that Nationwide is entitled to charge for 
any unauthorised  overdraft use. So Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt made  a mistake here 
if it can show that both accounts didnt have  agreed overdraft facilities.
The first account was opened in 1988  and so its not possible to look at the account  opening  
documents. But Ive seen  Mr Ds account statements for the last five years or so as well as 
the information he would have seen  when accessing  online banking.  And I can see that 
there isnt any evidence of an overdraft on that account. I can also see that Mr D has 
Ref: DRN15194842incurred overdraft fees which were highlighted on the statements. So as far as the first 
account is concerned  I dont think Nationwide made  a mistake or acted unfairly by charging 
Mr D for being overdrawn.
I appreciate Mr D says Nationwide asked him if he wished  to upgrade  his account. Ive not 
seen any record of a call to or from Mr D about this on Nationwides  records.  But Im 
satisfied that having  looked at the second  account application, it was made online by Mr D. 
And Im also satisfied that this was a new application for a new account and that Mr D 
completed the application and selected the option that he didnt wish to have  an overdraft 
facility. I accept that may have been  a mistake by Mr D and that he thought he had selected 
the overdraft option.  But I cant fairly hold Nationwide  responsible for that. And I wouldve 
expected Mr D to have noticed that he didnt have an overdraft facility,  as it would have been 
clear from his statements  or when he used  online  banking. So I dont think  the overdraft 
charges were unfairly applied on the second account as Im satisfied there wasnt  an 
overdraft facility on this account either.
Ive looked at the letter Mr D has given us that was sent to him by Nationwide.  I think  its 
about an account fee increase and Im satisfied it clearly says that overdrafts are subject to 
status. So I cant fairly conclude that letter said that Mr D had an overdraft and I think it 
applied to those  customers that did.
Overall Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt made a mistake here or acted unfairly.  I have set out 
why I dont think there was an overdraft  on either  account. I also think that Nationwide has 
acted fairly  by making the gesture of goodwill in refunding  charges and by cancelling  
pending charges.  I appreciate Mr D would like this matter settled but I cant  reasonably ask 
Nationwide to do anything  further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also make  it clear  to Mr D that we operate under  a set of rules which say that we can only 
look at a complaint  that was brought in time. I am not able to look at a complaint if its 
brought to us more than six years after the event took place or three  years  after a customer 
would have known  or ought to have known they had cause to complain. So that means  for 
Mr Ds complaint I can only look at the charges that have taken place over the last six years  
in any event, as I think  Mr D would or ought  to have known about the charges before that 
time as he was receiving  regular account  statements. I appreciate that in the light of my 
findings, as I dont think Nationwide has made a mistake,  the time limit point doesnt really  
matter here.  But I make  it clear  to Mr D so he understands the approach  we take. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1519484