K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about the charges that have  been  made by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance,  for excess  mileage and damage to 
a car that was returned at the end of his hire purchase agreement. Hes being helped  with 
his complaint by his partner. 
background
Mr I signed a hire purchase agreement  with Mercedes-Benz Finance in August  2016 for a 
new car to be supplied to him for his partner to use. The agreement was for two years. When  
it was ending there were  discussions about extending the agreement but Mr I then said that 
he wanted to buy the car and was going to make the optional purchase payment. He didnt 
do so and the agreement ended. He returned the car to the dealer in September  2018 and it 
was inspected. The inspection report identified damage to the car and excess  mileage. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance charged  him £2,423.19 for the damage and additional rental and 
£550.80 for the excess mileage. 
A complaint was made  to Mercedes-Benz Finance and it agreed to reduce the damage  
charges by £250 to £2,173.19 as a gesture of goodwill.  That offer wasnt  accepted and Mr I 
complained to this service. The adjudicator  didnt  recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. He concluded that he hadnt seen evidence to suggest that Mercedes-Benz  Finance 
had done anything wrong.
Mr Is partner, on his behalf,  has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. She says, in summary, that she was under the impression that the agreement 
had been extended and shed have arranged for the damage to be repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I signed the hire purchase agreement in August 2018. By signing  the agreement  he 
confirmed that the terms and conditions were attached to the agreement and immediately 
above his signature  it said:
This is a Hire Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
The agreement included the vehicle return standards and said:  
You are required to keep  the vehicle in good  repair and condition at all times  you 
are responsible for making good any damage or loss to the vehicle and you shall 
indemnify ie compensate us for any loss arsing as a result of your use of the vehicle.
There were clearly discussions about  extending  the agreement and an agreement modifying 
a hire purchase agreement was prepared by Mercedes-Benz Finance in September 2018  
but Ive not been provided with any evidence to show  that the modification agreement  was 
signed by Mr I.
Ref: DRN14595112Mercedes-Benz Finance says that Mr I decided not to extend the agreement and was going  
to buy the car and had said that he was making  the optional  purchase payment. But it says 
that it didnt receive  the payment and Mr I e-mailed it to say that hed accepted a deal for a 
new car from his dealer  and he asked what should happen to his current car. It says that it 
sent him an e-mail  a week later to say that his details  had been  sent to the third party  and it 
would arrange  for the car to be collected  from him and inspected  but that Mr I replied to say 
that he was returning the car to the dealer.
Mr Is partner says that she was under the impression that the agreement had been 
extended. But Ive seen no evidence to show that the agreement had been extended and Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mercedes-Benz  Finance acted 
incorrectly when it ended  the agreement.
The dealer  prepared an inspection report which identified 24 items of damage  to the car and 
included photos  of the damage. The cars mileage was recorded as being 21,995 miles at 
the time of inspection.  Mercedes-Benz Finance charged Mr I £2,423.19 for the damage and 
additional rental and £550.80 for the excess mileage. 
Having considered the photos and descriptions  of the damage and the vehicle  return  
standards, Im not persuaded that the damage  would  reasonably  be considered  to be fair 
wear and tear and I consider  that its fair and reasonable  for Mercedes-Benz  Finance to 
charge Mr I for that damage and the additional rental. But its offered  to reduce the charges 
by £250 to £2,173.19  as a gesture of goodwill and I consider that to be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Mr Is partner says that shed have arranged for the damage to be repaired if the agreement 
had been extended. But the car was returned to the dealer with the damage  and I dont 
consider that there was any requirement  for the dealer or Mercedes-Benz Finance to return 
the car to Mr I for the damage to be repaired.
The agreement said:
If you return  the vehicle to us and have exceeded the total permitted mileage, which 
is based on an annual  permitted mileage of 7,000 miles an excess  mileage charge of 
6.00p excluding  VAT for each mile will be payable by you for each additional  mile.
The cars mileage when it was returned to the dealer  was 21,995  miles and Mr I was 
charged £550.80 for the excess mileage. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to 
show that the excess mileage charge has been calculated  incorrectly  or that its unfair or 
unreasonable in these  circumstances  for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge Mr I for the 
excess mileage.
I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance has acted  incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr I 
and his partner.  So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require  it to reduce 
(or waive) the charges  that its made  or to take any other  action in response to his 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Ref: DRN14595113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1459511