K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Witan Investment Services Limited (Witan) mishandled the transfer  of 
their shares to the Witan/Witan Pacific  share  register  (the share  register).
background
Events began  with a letter  from Witan to Mr and Mrs R dated  14 January 2019. The letter  
explained that it had reviewed its savings  scheme service and had decided to transfer  it to a 
specialist investment platform provided  by a third party  firm. It confirmed that it would  no 
longer be offering the Witan Wisdom and Jump  Savings Schemes and it offered them a 
choice between four options (with  different reply  deadlines  applicable  to the options). 
The options  were  to transfer  their account to the new provider, to transfer their account to 
another provider  of their choice, to request a transfer to the share  register or to liquidate  their 
investment and withdraw the proceeds.
On 31 January Mr and Mrs R responded in writing to Witan.  They  say they were  informed 
prior to that, over the telephone, that their instruction had to be in writing. They say they 
confirmed, in the telephone conversation,  that they would opt for the third option (transfer of 
their shares to the share  register) but would like this to happen  after maturity of the savings 
scheme.
Their letter  of 31 January said, in the main, as follows:
That they wish to use the third option  and have their account transferred to the share 
register.
That Witan should confirm that their instruction  has been actioned  at [Witans] 
earliest convenience.
That their perception was that Witans letter was leading them towards the new 
provider.
That they were unhappy  with poor telephone service they received at the time.
Witan executed Mr and Mrs Rs instruction in February. They then complained  about  that 
because the transfer had taken place without waiting for maturity of the savings scheme, as 
they wanted. Witan  disputes the complaint. It says it executed  their instruction as presented 
by them  and that it could not reinstate their account because the scheme had closed.  
The matter  was referred to this service. One of our investigators looked into it and agreed  
that Witan had executed Mr and Mrs Rs instruction as they had presented  it. She noted their 
unhappiness about the telephone service they received at the time but concluded  that their 
calls had to be escalated  due to the subject(s) raised and whilst  that consumed  more time it 
was not unreasonable for Witan to have done  so.
Mr R disagreed with this outcome and made the following  points:
The process Witan  applied to the event was fundamentally flawed as it put clients  to 
unnecessary work, lacked  a standard nature and, because  of the existence of a 
default option, put pressure upon  clients.
The poor telephone service and lack of information about what, precisely,  to put in 
their instruction compounded the problem.
The irrevocable nature of Witans action also compounds  the problem.
Ref: DRN18493742He accepts that their instruction letter could have  been clearer  but that was impacted 
by the issues  mentioned above.
Witan should  have sought clarification  of their instruction  letter.
Witan should  be able to redress the matter by obtaining the shares in the secondary 
market.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint.
Available documentary  evidence provides the following:
Witans letter of 14 January included an explanation about the third option.  It said the 
deadline to select  this option  was 15 March and it said upon receipt of Mr and Mrs 
Rs instruction it  will arrange for the re-registration to take place  and the 
Registrar of the trusts  will send a share certificate to [their]  account address.
Mr and Mrs Rs instruction  letter  confirmed  their wish for the third option  and asked  
Witan for confirmation of its execution of the instruction at its earliest convenience. 
The letter makes no mention of a desire  or instruction to await maturity of the scheme 
before executing the transfer.
In straightforward terms, Witan executed the instruction  given by Mr and Mrs R and I do not 
consider that there is evidence to suggest  that it did otherwise. There appears  to be nothing  
within the instruction  for which Witan ought  to have sought clarification and I am not 
persuaded that the process was fundamentally flawed as alleged  or that this allegation is 
relevant to the complaint.  It is not uncommon for transfer exercises to have a default  option 
in the event that a client does not respond  by a relevant deadline. Furthermore, I do not 
consider that a client exercising the right to select an option in such an exercise  (and doing 
so in writing) amounts to unnecessary work.
In their complaint  submissions Mr and Mrs R conceded that their letter   could have been 
clearer  and that their letter could  have been  misinterpreted as action instructions 
immediately rather than confirm  the instructions have been lodged  so that is what  will 
happen when  the scheme ends   Based on their present assertion, their letter could  
indeed have been clearer. 
However, I do not accept  that there  was a misunderstanding on Witans part. I have not 
identified anything in the letter that suggested Mr and Mrs R wanted, only, confirmation that 
the instruction  had been lodged and that the transfer  will happen when the scheme  ends. 
There was no basis, within the instruction  letter, for Witan to know  or even assume this. 
Reference to the explanation of the third option in Witans letter  also defeats the argument 
that this could reasonably have been expected. That explanation said execution of the third 
option, if selected, will take place following receipt  of the instruction.
Mr and Mrs R appear  to argue that this expectation  was mentioned in the telephone 
conversation with Witan  prior to their instruction  letter. However, they accept that they were 
told in that conversation to confirm their instruction in writing, so it follows that if their 
Ref: DRN18493743instruction was to execute the transfer  after maturity of the scheme  that is precisely what 
they should have said in the instruction letter  but they did not.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Witan did anything wrong in executing  Mr 
and Mrs Rs instruction, the instruction was executed  as they requested  and I note that their 
request even asked  for confirmation  of execution,  essentially, as soon as possible  which  
conflicts with the notion  of suspending  execution until after maturity of the scheme. As Mr 
and Mrs R appear to concede, this conveyed a message to action instructions immediately. 
In the absence of any wrongdoing by Witan in this matter, the issue of redress  is redundant.
With regards to the telephone service issue, I agree with the investigators conclusion.  I have 
listened to the telephone calls and I understand the strength  of feeling and frustration that 
was expressed by Mr R during those calls, but it is equally  evident that Witan sought to give 
the issues he raised due attention and had to escalate the calls for that reason. I am not 
persuaded that there is a ground to award compensation in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my 
decision before  16 January  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1849374