K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about the way Legal  and General  Assurance  Society  Limited has 
handled the pension plans he holds with them.
background
Mr D holds three pension  plans with Legal and General. The complaint mainly relates to one 
of those plans  which was created to compensate him for pension  mis-selling. Ill refer to this 
plan as UP16*****.
Mr D will be 65 later this year.  Two of his plans feature a normal  retirement date (NRD) of 
65. UP16***** had a NRD of 63 which fell in 2018.
Mr D is unhappy because  Legal and General failed to change  the NRD of UP16***** to 65 
when he asked them to. This has meant that the funds have not been invested since 2018 
and the only growth  has been interest  from a deposit account.
Mr D wrote to Legal and General in April 2017.  He said that he no longer intended to retire  at 
62 and wanted  his retirement date to be age 65 for all his pensions. He also said that he was 
aware that pensions  may be switched to lower  performance investments in the later years 
and that he wanted the guarantee to work  fully so the extra  three years should  grow such  a 
pot
Legal and General responded in May 2017. Its letter only addresses plan UP16*****  (the 
other plans  already had NRDs at 65) and said that this plan could not be extended by less 
than three  years as it was invested in a with-profits plan. It said that Mr D could switch 
investments if he wanted to extend  by only three years.
Mr D says that he didnt  receive this letter  and so he didnt  respond  to it. No changes  were 
made to the NRD or to the investment.
In May 2018  Legal and General wrote to Mr D in advance of the NRD which was set for later 
that year. This set out his retirement  options and asked for a response from him with his 
intentions. There  was no response. 
In December 2018 Legal and General  wrote  to Mr D telling him that his funds had been 
moved from with-profits to a deposit account  after the NRD had been reached.
Mr D complained to Legal  and General. It didnt  uphold the complaint. It explained that it had 
responded to his request  to change the NRD on UP16***** and explained why it couldnt  
without a change  in investment. It went on to offer reinvestment into the with-profits fund 
from 2018.
Mr D didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. It was considered by an 
investigator but she didnt think it should be upheld. She accepted  that Mr D had made  a 
clear request  to change  the NRD to 65. But she was satisfied that Legal and General had 
responded and set out what needed  to be done  to achieve this. Its letter had been correctly 
addressed and it was unfortunate if it hadnt been  received.  Mr D had not been sent any 
other confirmation that the NRD had been  changed  to 65. The investigator noted  Mr Ds 
criticism of the copy letter from May 2017 and his suspicions  that it wasnt  genuine. But she 
didnt conclude that the letter was other  than genuine.
Ref: DRN14755542Mr D didnt agree and the case  has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and with her reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint. Its 
unfortunate that Mr D didnt receive the letter from Legal and General in May 2017. But in 
order to uphold a complaint I need to be satisfied that it has done something wrong. It is 
clear that in 2017 Mr D asked to extend his NRD to age 65 in 2020,  however, I am satisfied 
that it responded in May 2017 setting out how this could be achieved  and explaining that this 
would require moving out of the with-profits fund. It received no response  and so it didnt 
have any authority to make any changes.
I note that Mr D didnt receive anything  from Legal  and General which suggested that the 
NRD for UP16***** had been changed  as he had requested.
I think its also relevant to note that Mr Ds letter  of April 2017 makes clear  that he 
understood the NRD for UP16***** was earlier than 65 and that he was aware of the concept 
of life-styling  moving funds to less volatile  investments as the NRD approached.
In May 2018  Legal and General sent further  correspondence to Mr D in advance  of the 
imminent NRD. The date of the NRD, later in 2018 (and not 2020),  was clearly set out in this 
letter. This was its warm-up letter.
Mr D has said that he didnt receive  a warm-up  letter but he has also said he did receive  
correspondence referring him to Money  Wise and said that he was expecting  a payment 
pack.
Having considered the evidence Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr D did receive the letter  of 
May 2018. This was the letter which referred  to Money Wise and made reference to the 
payment pack.  But the letter required action from Mr D before the payment pack  would  be 
sent and he doesnt seem to have taken any action.
So before May 2018, Mr D had received no confirmation that the NRD on UP16*****  had 
been changed. And then in May 2018  he was told that the NRD was in 2018 (and not 2020). 
At that point there was potentially  still time to consider extending the NRD (but not whilst 
invested in the with-profits fund) or deciding  how the funds would be invested after a 2018 
NRD.
In December 2018, Legal and General  confirmed  the funds had been switched to a deposit 
account after the NRD had been  reached.
I do note Mr Ds concerns, but Im satisfied that Legal  and General responded to his request 
to change the NRD on UP16*****. It explained how this could be achieved. He says that he 
didnt receive the letter  of May 2017  and questions the authenticity  of the copy. I dont have 
any reason other than Mr Ds suspicions to doubt  the authenticity of the letter  from May 
2017. But its also the case that he didnt  receive  any confirmation that the change had been 
made and I think he could have followed this up and checked.
Ref: DRN14755543Im also satisfied that Mr D did receive the warm-up letter  in May 2018. This made it 
reasonably clear that the NRD hadnt  been changed  as he had requested  and was still 2018.  
Action could have been taken then to change the NRD or avoid investment in the deposit  
account.
And I am satisfied that moving the funds into deposit  was consistent with what Legal and 
General had said would happen to funds moved from the with-profits  fund at NRD. In any 
event, I think Mr D was sufficiently  informed  to avoid this happening if he wished to.
So for the reasons given above,  I dont uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1475554