K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited trading as Satsuma charged him an 
excessive amount of interest on his loan. Mr T is unhappy that the interest was pre-
calculated and doesnt think that Satsuma  explained  this to him. 
background
Mr T took out a loan with Satsuma in July 2017.  Mr T borrowed £750 with interest  that he 
was due to repay by 12 monthly payments of £124.50.
Mr T wasnt happy when Satsuma told him that the interest on the loan had been added  at 
the start so he couldnt save money  by repaying it early. 
Mr T asked  Satsuma  to refund half the interest  that it had applied  to the loan. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint  be upheld. She explained that she 
was only looking at Mr Ts complaint  about the interest on the loan. This was because  Mr T 
hadnt previously  complained to Satsuma that the loan was unaffordable.
The adjudicator told Mr T that the loan agreement set out the total amount  that Mr T had to 
repay. The adjudicator  was satisfied that Satsuma  included the rate of interest on the loan 
agreement and that Mr T accepted the agreement  knowing the rate was. The adjudicator 
didnt think that Satsuma needed to do anything in response to Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T isnt happy with the adjudicators recommendation. He says that Satsuma previously 
said that hed never  raised concerns about the terms of the loan not being  properly 
explained to him. Mr T thinks  the rate of interest  is extortionate.
Mr T says that he asked at the point of sale whether repaying the loan more quickly  would 
reduce the interest and Satsuma said it would.  Mr T says he wouldnt have taken out the 
loan if hed known  that the interest rate was fixed.
Mr T says he didnt  have any letter in the post detailing the terms of the agreement. Mr T 
asks whether Satsuma  can provide proof of posting. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In cases like this, where the evidence is 
inconclusive, I reach  my decision on the balance of probabilities. That means Ill look at all 
the available  evidence and decide what  I think  is most likely to have happened.
Im satisfied that Satsuma  presented the information about the terms of the loan agreement 
to Mr T as part of the online application  process.  Satsuma then sent Mr T a copy  of the 
agreement that hed signed  electronically.  
The agreement says that a flat rate of interest  applies to the loan and that this will apply for 
the duration of the credit  agreement. The agreement says that the interest has been pre-
calculated and applied  at the commencement of the credit agreement.
Ref: DRN12871572I appreciate that Mr T says he asked Satsuma at the point of sale whether paying  the loan 
off more quickly would reduce  the interest.  Satsumas  records dont indicate that Mr T raised 
this when he took out the loan  particularly as Mr T applied for the loan online.
I can see that Mr T discussed the interest on the loan with Satsuma in early November 2017. 
Mr T asked  Satsuma  whether he would  pay less interest on the loan if he repaid it early.  
The representative for Satsuma explained what rebate Mr T would be entitled to if he repaid 
the loan early and in full.
Mr T told Satsuma that he wouldnt have taken the loan out had he known that the amount of 
interest he had to pay was fixed. However, this conversation took place more  than four 
months after Mr T had entered in to the loan agreement. So I cant  say that Satsuma made a 
mistake or misled  Mr T at the point that he took the loan out. 
Although Mr T doesnt recall receiving the agreement, Satsumas records show that it sent it. 
I cant blame Satsuma for any failure  in the postal service and it wasnt  obliged  to send the 
agreement in a way that wouldve required Mr T to sign for it. I also take account of the fact 
that I cant see any evidence of Mr T querying  the lack of a loan agreement  with Satsuma.  
I understand that Mr T is unhappy with the level of interest that Satsuma has charged but as 
it appears to be in line with the terms of his loan agreement, I cant  require Satsuma to 
refund anything to Mr T.
Ive not considered Mr Ts complaint about  Satsuma not carrying  out adequate  affordability 
checks as this didnt  form part of his original complaint.  I gather that Mr T has now raised  his 
concerns with Satsuma.  If Mr T remains  unhappy after receiving  Satsumas final response 
on the question  of affordability then he will of course  be able to bring that aspect of his 
complaint to this service  in the future.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1287157