K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued last month. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr Lender has said 
that it has nothing  further to add. Mr G has provided us with some additional comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Mr G has said,  I have considered  his entire  
response carefully before writing this decision.
Mr G has said that given  the time that has passed  since taking this loan he has no further 
evidence he can give us. But he is disappointed  that although I have found Mr Lender didnt 
do sufficient checks I havent upheld the complaint. He says he was borrowing off a number 
of lenders to repay other loans and eventually this led to him needing to enter a debt 
management programme.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  about the position that Mr G found himself in at the time he took this loan. But 
although I dont  think the checks Mr Lender  did were  sufficient, that in itself doesnt  mean  
that Mr Gs complaint should  succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that what I consider to 
be proportionate checks would have shown Mr Lender that Mr G couldnt sustainably  repay  
the loan.
As I explained in my provisional decision I dont think the information Mr Lender  should have 
gathered from Mr G would  have been  sufficient to show the lending was unsustainable. Its 
checks didnt show the extent of Mr Gs other borrowing, or the problems he was having 
repaying that borrowing. And Mr G didnt  tell Mr Lender about  those problems  either. So 
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong  to give this loan to Mr G.
Ref: DRN19285672my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19285673EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mr G was given one loan by Mr Lender. He borrowed £300 in late October 2011 and agreed to repay  
the loan in a single instalment the following month.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  Mr Lender should  
have agreed  to give this loan to Mr G. So he asked Mr Lender to pay Mr G some compensation. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr G could  repay the 
loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr Lender has told us about  the checks it did before  lending to Mr G. It asked  him for details of his 
normal income. And it checked some aspects of his finances  with a credit reference agency. 
Mr Lender has provided us with a summary of the results of that check, and confirmed that they didnt 
show any signs  of financial  problems such as accounts registered in delinquent or default status up to 
three years prior to the application or evidence  of any IVAs or Bankruptcy. Mr Lender says that Mr Gs 
credit score was average compared to its other customers around that time.
Ref: DRN19285674This was the first, and only, loan that Mr G took from Mr Lender. But the amount  that Mr G needed  to 
repay on this loan formed a relatively  large proportion of the income  that hed declared to Mr Lender. 
So I dont think the checks Mr Lender did here were  sufficient. Although I think  it was reasonable for 
Mr Lender to base its affordability assessment on information that Mr G provided, I think it should  
have gathered details about his expenditure  including  asking him some very specific questions about  
any other short term loans that he was already  committed to repaying.
As I said earlier, the credit check Mr Lender performed didnt show evidence of any accounts  in 
delinquent or default status. But that wasnt a true reflection of Mr Gs situation. Hed taken a short  
term loan from another lender in July 2011 and agreed to repay it in two instalments  at the end of 
August and September. But Mr G failed  to make either of those repayments and at the start of 
October he was charged a late fee by the lender. I think at that point,  given that he doesnt appear to 
have made  any contact  at all with the other lender about the missed payments, Mr G had effectively 
given up on repaying this loan.
So, taking account  of that situation, I dont think Mr G would have told Mr Lender at the time he asked 
for the loan that he needed to make a repayment to the other lender. And it isnt reasonable  to hold 
Mr Lender responsible for information that didnt  appear on its credit check. In 2011 there was often a 
considerable time lag in events being added to a credit file. And in many cases  lenders didnt  report to 
every credit reference agency or, in some cases, to any of the credit reference  agencies.
Given the amount  Mr G needed to repay on this loan, what was apparent about his circumstances  at 
the time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to 
start verifying  what he was saying. And I dont  think the information  Mr Lender should have gathered 
from Mr G would have been sufficient to show the lending was unsustainable. So I dont currently 
think Mr Lender  was wrong to give this loan to Mr G.
Ref: DRN1928567