K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that CarCashPoint Limited repossessed his car, and about related  issues.
background
In January 2016 Mr F took out a logbook loan with CarCashPoint (CCP). In April 2018,  his 
car was repossessed.  Mr F has complained about this, and about a number of other issues  
concerning his loan. He says:
CCP failed to contact  him to warn  him that his car would be repossessed.
CCP failed to send  him any information  about  his account after September  2017.
CCP sold his car at auction for less than it was worth. In particular, CCP had sold it at 
trade price instead of retail price. Also, the car included two upgrades  which he had 
added, a media unit and a personalised number plate, which should have increased 
the value of the car.
Prior to the repossession, he had been  trying to sell the car privately for £3,250.
The car contained personal possessions  which have  not been  returned to him.
He was charged for the storage of the car until it was sold.
CCP said it had been entitled to repossess the car, and had given him plenty of warning. It 
was standard  industry practice to sell a car at trade  value, and it had valued the car in 
accordance with a trade guide.  The upgrades did not necessarily increase the value of the 
car. It had offered to post Mr Fs belongings to him, or alternatively  he could collect  them, but 
he had not agreed  to either course of action. The loan agreement,  which Mr F had signed,  
provided for storage charges in the event of repossession.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that CCP  had been sending Mr F 
statements until February 2018, and had told him several times that it would repossess the 
car. CCP had also tried to contact Mr F several  times by phone and email.  The loan 
agreement clearly set out the charges. She accepted that the value of the car had been 
properly determined.
Mr F asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Our investigator set out detailed findings in her two decision  letters, which  I agree with, and 
so I do not propose  to go into the same level of detail here. I will simply summarise  my view.
Before I do that, I will explain one issue about  which Mr F has expressed his strong  
dissatisfaction. As well as the complaint issues I have  summarised  above,  Mr F also 
complained about some  other issues which were ruled by the investigator to be out of our 
jurisdiction, because Mr F had not complained to us about them  within our time limits.  Mr F 
did not ask for an ombudsman to review that decision (which  was dealt with separately to 
this complaint), and so I will not reconsider the jurisdiction issue  here. But in the course  of 
considering Mr Fs complaint about  how the late payment fees were calculated  (which is 
within our jurisdiction), the investigator  commented on some matters which had occurred 
more than six months ago. I intend to do the same. Mr F says that is unfair  and 
Ref: DRN14314712contradictory, because  some of his complaints  had been ruled out of our jurisdiction 
precisely because  he had waited longer than six months to complain about  them.  So I will 
explain why I can still refer to those matters, and why it is fair and reasonable to do so.
Firstly, the Financial Ombudsman Service does not have  rules of evidence,  so nothing is 
inadmissible. I can consider any evidence which I think is relevant to an issue  which is within  
my jurisdiction, even if that evidence  is also relevant  to some other issue which I do not have 
jurisdiction to look into. As long as I do not make findings about the issue  which is out of 
jurisdiction, I can still take into account evidence which is relevant to both issues,  and 
evaluate it, in order to make findings  about  the issue  I am considering.
Secondly, if I did not consider all of the relevant evidence,  I might  be precluded from 
reaching a decision  which is fair and reasonable. And if I ignored all evidence  relevant to an 
issue within my jurisdiction, just because it was also relevant  to a matter  out of my 
jurisdiction, then I would be curtailing my power  to consider a complaint in circumstances in 
which the rules did not require  me to refrain from considering  it.
I will now turn to the issues raised in this complaint.
I cannot agree that CCP was wrong  to repossess  the car, or that it did not give proper notice. 
Mr F was in arrears, and the loan agreement and the bill of sale both provide that the car 
may be repossessed  if repayments are not made  on time. Mr F was in arrears  at the time, 
and had been in arrears  for quite some  time,  in fact for almost  the entire duration of the loan 
agreement. CCP had warned him that he was in arrears, and that the car could be 
repossessed if the arrears  were not cleared.  CCP had sent him a notice of arrears,  and a 
default notice,  both dated 6 July 2016.  Loan  statements were sent to him until February  
2018. CCP had written  to him in October  2017  to tell him that it was going to instruct 
recovery agents unless  the arrears were cleared. Alternatives to repossession  putting his 
account on hold,  agreeing  repayment  plans, and recommending voluntary surrender  had 
been tried,  but without success. I find that CCP exercised significant forbearance before it 
finally resorted to repossession.  I cant see what other remedy  it had left.
I do not think it matters if Mr F was trying  to sell the car himself before it was repossessed.  
There is no evidence of that, but even  if it is true, and he wasnt allowed to sell the car 
anyway, because that was prohibited by both the loan agreement and the bill of sale.  Selling 
the car would have  been a breach of both sets of terms and conditions.  He didnt tell CCP  
that he had been planning to sell the car until after it was repossessed,  so CCP couldnt 
have known that, but if it had known then I think it would just have been another reason to 
repossess the car, and to do so as a matter  of urgency.
The car was sold at one of the recommended trade  prices, which  is normal  practice.  A 
personalised number plate is not necessarily worth  anything to a person other than the 
person who got it, so I would not expect  that to increase  the value of the car. A media unit 
might, but not necessarily either. In any case, there  is no evidence  that CCP failed to sell the 
car for what it was worth.
The loan agreement  provides for storage fees, and the car was in storage  between 
repossession and sale, so I cant find that CCP  is wrong to charge for storage.
I have seen correspondence in which CCP offered to return Mr Fs personal belongings to 
him, either by posting them to him or by him collecting  them, so I dont agree that they have 
Ref: DRN14314713been withheld from him. However, to bring  an end to this matter  I recommend that CCP now 
sends them to Mr F by post to the address it has on file for him.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019. However, it is not necessary for him to reply.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1431471