K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Equiniti Financial Services Limited (trading as Selftrade) cancelled 
a number of trailing  stop loss orders he placed in his share  dealing  account.
background
Mr H had a share dealing account  with Selftrade. In September  2018 Mr H contacted  
Selftrade to advise that it had cancelled a number of trailing stop loss orders  which  had 
caused him a loss.
In October  2018 Mr H complained as he hadnt  received any explanation and that orders  
continued to be cancelled. Mr H said the cancelled orders werent authorised  by him and the 
messages he received  about the orders didnt allow him to identify which had been  
cancelled. He also complained that complaint  records held in Selftrades secure messaging 
system were being deleted despite  him marking them as do not delete.
Selftrade told Mr H on 1 November 2018  that it had identified a defect with trailing stop loss 
orders. It said such orders would likely continue to be cancelled  and suggested  Mr H set 
stop losses instead of trailing  stop losses in the meantime. Mr H continued to update  
Selftrade as to the number of orders cancelled and that he intended to seek damages. 
Selftrade advised its investigations  into the issue were continuing.
In January 2019 Selftrade provided its final response to Mr Hs complaint. It said a change in 
the format of the price provided by its price feed supplier had caused the issue  this had 
affected limit orders between 11 September 2018 and 6 November 2018.  Selftrade said it 
had reviewed the orders Mr H placed during this period  and had identified  two that may have 
been executed had the trailing stop loss orders not been cancelled. It calculated  Mr Hs loss 
to be £182.52.  It also addressed  the issues Mr H had raised  about his messages kept in the 
secure messaging system and the issues  he had viewing  contract  notes and cancellation 
notices. Selftrade  offered  Mr H a total of £622.52 compensation covering the losses  and the 
trouble and upset  caused. It also offered him the opportunity to leave  Selftrade  without 
paying any associated  fees.
Mr H didnt accept this and referred  his complaint  to our service. He added  that he believed 
the problem with the cancelled orders started  before September  2018. He also said 
Selftrade hadnt kept to the standards set out in its complaint  handling process. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. He acknowledged Mr Hs belief that his 
losses were greater, but he was satisfied that Selftrade had demonstrated Mr Hs loss only 
amounted to £182.52. He also thought the additional compensation offered and the option  to 
exit the service without  any fees was reasonable for the trouble and upset caused. In the 
absence of further evidence from Mr H, the investigator  thought Selftrades total offer was 
fair. The investigator also explained  that we couldnt  consider the concerns  Mr H had raised 
about Selftrades complaint handling  as it wasnt a regulated activity.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view because he didnt believe Selftrades  explanation 
for the error.  He said hed identified 344 cancelled trailing stop loss orders  between 
10 November 2014 and 3 March 2019  which hadnt  been explained.  Mr H thought he should 
be compensated at the same rate (which hed calculated as £4 per cancelled  order) for all of 
the cancelled  orders between these dates. He said because cancelled  order notifications  
didnt trigger a transaction email or identify  the affected trades,  hed needed to log on several 
Ref: DRN17440812times a day to find out what had happened. Overall, he believed  he should  receive  additional 
compensation of around £4,000. He added that he expected his wife to be compensated 
similarly as shed experienced the same  issues with her account.
The investigator contacted Selftrade  to ask whether any orders placed  before 
11 September 2018 couldve  been  affected by the IT error. He also asked why the earlier  
trailing stop loss orders had been  cancelled if they hadnt been caused by an IT error.
Selftrade advised that it had reviewed all trailing stop loss orders  that were  active  after 
11 September 2018 (including those placed  before this date) in its initial review. So it said 
Mr H had been compensated for all affected  orders. It explained that when a trailing  stop 
loss order is cancelled it doesn't necessarily  mean  it's caused by an IT error  or issue.  It 
referred to the terms and conditions of the service, which state under section 12 titled 'Limit 
Orders, Stop Orders, US Securities and Complex Instruments' that it doesnt guarantee that 
any orders placed will be executed, even if the price  is met.
The investigator explained the above  to Mr H, but he didnt accept it. He said there wasnt 
any evidence to show the problem started on 11 September 2018 and hed supplied 
evidence showing it started before then. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it as 
I think Selftrade has already offered fair compensation to put things right.  I realise Mr H will 
be disappointed  with this so Id like to explain why.
cancelled trailing  stop loss orders
Selftrade has explained why the orders were cancelled between September and 
November 2018;  I dont intend  to repeat this here as its well known to both parties. Mr H 
disputes this is the actual  cause of the problem. But I dont believe that the reason for the 
error is important, instead it is the impact of the error on Mr Hs account that needs to be 
considered.
Selftrade has carried out an audit of the trailing  stop loss orders that were active during  the 
period from 11 September 2018  to 6 November 2018. In this period it said 126 orders were 
cancelled, but it only identified two orders that wouldve likely been executed if they hadnt 
been cancelled.  This was confirmed by comparing all orders  which hit the trigger range to 
manual trades.  Selftrade provided  evidence  of all of the affected  orders, showing that Mr H 
experienced a total loss of £182.52.
I appreciate that Mr H disputes this, but he hasnt  provided evidence showing Selftrades  
calculations are incorrect. So, in the absence of any evidence  to the contrary,  Im satisfied 
that Selftrade has identified the losses Mr H experienced as a result of the IT error. And 
I think the £182.52 adequately compensates  him for these losses.  I also think  its offer to 
allow Mr H to leave Selftrade  without paying any associated fees is reasonable in the 
circumstances. I will address the trouble and upset caused by the IT error  separately.
Mr H believes  the IT error started much earlier than September  2018.  He says the fact that 
numerous trailing stop loss orders were cancelled between 10 November 2014 and 
Ref: DRN174408133 March 2019 is evidence of this. He says Selftrade hasnt explained why these orders were 
cancelled.
Selftrade said it migrated  to Equiniti Financial Services Limited on 26 January 2015.  So, it 
cant provide any information  relating to orders placed prior to migration. I also wont be 
commenting on the orders cancelled before this date as it isnt an issue  I can consider under 
this complaint against Equiniti.
I dont think the fact that Mr H has had trailing stop loss orders cancelled in the past is 
evidence of errors on Selftrades part. Selftrade  has confirmed there werent  any known 
errors with the software during the period identified by Mr H  apart  from the period from 
September to November  2018. So, it says the orders identified  by Mr H were most likely 
cancelled because of market conditions, other clients having made similar orders or other  
factors outside of its control. It says cancellation of orders in these circumstances is 
consistent the terms and conditions  of Mr Hs share dealing account.  Section 12 says:
12.1 If you decide  to place a Limit Order or a Stop Order (which  includes any type of Limit  or 
Stop Order, including a Trailing  Stop Order)  with us you accept  that:

b)we do not promise that Limit Orders or Stop Orders will be executed even if the price 
is met
d)special risks apply to Limit Orders such as Stop  Loss, Stop Buy and Trailing 
Stop Orders and these orders are placed entirely at your own risk.
In the absence of any evidence demonstrating  fault on Selftrades part, I dont think  it needs 
to carry out any further investigation of the other  cancelled orders. As per the terms and 
conditions, it is an inherent risk of the type of orders placed by Mr H that they wont 
necessarily be executed, even if the price is met. So, I dont think  Mr H is owed any further 
compensation for losses he says he experienced as a result of the cancelled  orders.
compensation for trouble  and upset
Mr H believes  he should be paid additional  compensation in light of the issues he 
experienced. Clearly  the service provided  by Selftrade fell short  of what I would expect. 
Selftrade has paid Mr H around £440 for the trouble  and upset caused by the cancelled 
trailing stop loss orders.
Overall I think  this sum fairly compensates Mr H. Although  Mr H says he needed to check  his 
accounts several times a day, I can see Selftrade  acknowledged his complaint quickly,  
apologised for the inconvenience and told him his concerns were  being investigated. 
Selftrade also told Mr H it didnt require  further  contact unless he considered  the information 
would assist with their enquiries. So even  though  Mr H may have felt he needed to check  his 
account frequently and update Selftrade  as to number of orders  affected, I dont think  he 
necessarily needed  to do this.
I also think Selftrade kept Mr H updated  regarding the investigation,  and note it was able to 
provide an interim explanation on 1 November  2018. I think the sum awarded  by Selftrade 
shows it took Mr Hs concerns seriously  and recognised the impact of its error in terms of the 
time Mr H spent  on it and the frustration  caused. For this reason, I dont think it needs to do 
any more to put things right.
Ref: DRN17440814my final decision
I am aware  that Equiniti  Financial Services Limited has made an offer to pay Mr H £622.52.  
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that Equiniti Financial Services Limited should pay Mr H £622.52 (if it hasnt already done 
so).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1744081