K820x#14Complaint
Mr S, who is represented by his wife, complains that Secure Trust Bank  Plc (SBT)  refused to 
let him reject  a car.
Background
In May 2018  Mr S acquired a second  hand  car costing £5,145  which was funded by a hire 
purchase agreement.  It was some eight years old and had done 83,377 miles. In the 
following months Mr S encountered problems with the car and had to replace tyres  and later 
an inner tie rod and control arm. Some six months  later he had a problem with the 
turbocharger and he was advised  this would cost in the region of £1,600  to repair.  Mr S was 
also concerned  that the car might  have been  involved in an accident as there was evidence 
it had been resprayed in places. 
Mr S let the broker know he had had the car repaired and that a friend had diagnosed other 
problems which would  cost some £2,500 to repair. The broker informed STB that the repairs  
had been carried  out without its approval  and it also suggested that the faults were due to 
wear and tear. It refused  to pay for the work.  
In November 2018 Mr S contacted SBT and said he had incurred expenditure on repairs and 
raised his concerns about the state of the car. STB said the state  of the bodywork  would 
have been apparent to Mr S when he bought the car. It arranged for an independent 
inspection to be carried out. 
The inspector confirmed there was a clear problem  with the turbo charger, but also noted it 
had done 7,000 miles since the point of sale. He concluded that it was generally in good  
condition and the replacement of the turbo  charger was part of routine  maintenance.  He 
thought the car had been fit for purpose at the point of sale.
Mr S brought a complaint  to this service and it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted the age and mileage  of the car and said that it 
was to be expected that repairs would be required from time to time. As for the bodywork he 
thought Mr S would  have  had the opportunity to inspect the car before acquiring it. He said 
no warranties were  made at the point of supply  as to the cars history.  He said that he hadnt 
seen any evidence about the state  of the bodywork and he noted there were no problems 
shown on the cars  MOT certificate.  
As for the exhaust  manifold he didnt think there was enough evidence  to suggest the faults 
were present  at point  of sale. Furthermore, he noted the independent  inspection  hadnt 
identified any up any issues with the exhaust manifold.
Mr S didnt agree and said the car had suffered further problems and he had since  lost his 
job, due not having a car. He also pointed out that the address  on the independent  report 
hadnt been totally accurate and it referred  to a different  model of car. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13422982In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
STB is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr S, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
The car was quite elderly and had done a fairly  high mileage and so it is to be expected that 
some of the mechanical  parts  will begin  to fail. The issue I have to consider is whether there 
is evidence to show these  faults were present  at the point of sale.
As far as the bodywork is concerned I consider it reasonable to conclude that Mr S had the 
opportunity to inspect  the car before acquiring it. It was up to him to be satisfied that it was of 
an acceptable standard bearing in mind  the cars age, mileage and price.  
Mr S acquired the car using hire purchase  and this means the car didnt belong  to him until,  
he had paid off the debt.  He should have sought STBs approval before  carrying out any 
work. Consumer law also entitles the seller  to an opportunity to fix any fault deemed to have 
been present  at the point  of sale, but Mr S didnt allow it to do so. That makes it difficult  to 
say that STB should be held responsible for those repairs. 
Since one fault was repaired it is difficult  to establish the cause and whether it was present 
at the point of sale. However, the car was subjected to an independent inspection and the 
inspector concluded that it had been fit for purpose at the point of sale.  I note he recorded  
the wrong model and made  a minor  error in the address, but I dont believe these invalidate  
his conclusions. It is regrettable that Mr S has encountered  various  issues  with the car after 
he acquired it, but I have  not seen sufficient evidence that would allow  me to conclude that it 
had been faulty at the point of sale.  This means  I am unable to uphold his complaint. 
Ref: DRN13422983My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 14 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1342298