K820x#14complaint
Mr A is the sole director of a limited  company, which  Ill call S. His complaint is that 
Cavendish Munro Professional Risks Limited mis-sold the company a Professional  
Indemnity insurance  policy that Mr A says wasnt  suitable.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 27 January 2020 setting out the detail behind  the 
complaint as follows;
Mr A bought the policy for his limited company S through Cavendish,  an insurance broker,  in 
January 2015.  The policy was underwritten  by an insurer, which  Ill call L. There came  a 
time where  Mr A needed to prove to a client that S had suitable insurance cover in place. It 
was at this point Mr A became aware  that the policy sold wasnt  suitable for his business  
needs. The issue seemed to be cover  for joint ventures,  which the policy  excluded.  Mr A had 
initiated a potential claim and was in communication with Cavendish  to confirm  if he was 
covered. But he felt Cavendish didnt clarify the issue quickly enough and so he cancelled  
the insurance policy and bought new cover through a different insurance provider starting on 
17 July 2018.  What Mr A was clear on was that he wasnt  pursuing a claim and indeed  had 
written to Cavendish in an email There  is no claim.  We resolved the situation and there is 
no case to answer.
In further correspondence with Cavendish,  Mr A confirmed the he wished to withdraw 
notification of a potential claim, that he wasnt impressed with Cavendishs  speed but 
thanked them for closing  the matter. Mr A had been  informed that Cavendish didnt 
recommend cancellation and because  the policy was a claims made one, any future claims 
would be excluded. Details  of the potential claim werent given  such that any assessment of 
the claim could be given. Within a few weeks of the policy being  cancelled on 24 July 2018,  
Mr A wrote again to Cavendish explaining that the claim hadnt  been averted and S wanted 
to defend the case against them. 
One of our investigators  explained his view that Cavendish had mis-sold the policy.  This was 
because the sale was on an advised  basis and even though  the main type of business  had 
been made clear, the policy didnt cover this type of business.  To put things right, he said 
Cavendish should;
Have a loss adjuster  assess Ss claim in line with the new policy  Mr A had bought
If the claim would  be successful then the claim should be paid
Pay £200 for the incovenienced caused  to S.
Mr A, on behalf of S, accepted the investigators  opinion. Cavendish  disagreed  and said it 
would be instructing a solicitor. But in the interim it was unaware  that a loss adjuster had 
been in touch with Mr A, as he had said had happened. Cavendish  said a law firm had been  
appointed by the insurer to handle the claim and as far as Cavendish  was aware the reason 
why a claim wouldnt proceed was because the policy had been cancelled  and no insurance 
was in place when the claim  was made.
Solicitors for Cavendish  sent us correspondence  in November 2019. They concluded  that 
the claim,  while falling within the scope of the policy, would fail because  S was involved in a 
joint venture with the business now claiming against  S and also that the claim was made 
after the policy had been cancelled. 
Ref: DRN17578482The solicitors reply  is detailed but the main points it raises are as follows;
The policy covers claims related to Technology Services, which  are defined.
The policy excludes claims  arising from a joint venture, which S was engaged in.
Mr A knew there was a potential  claim and that he was in a joint venture (with 
different businesses)  before he cancelled the policy  as hed notified Cavendish  of this 
on 9 July 2018.
Cavendish replied  the same day by email confirming the joint venture issue had been 
referred to the insurer and the potential claim had been referred to the Claims 
Department.
It was confirmed to Mr A that the insurer would consider  some  of the joint venture 
work if further details  were provided  and requests  for information were sent to Mr A.
Days after this Mr A informed Cavendish to cancel the policy as hed got cover 
elsewhere and had a joint venture clause writen  in.
Mr A hadnt informed the new insure of the potential claim and notified  Cavendish 
that the the claim has not transpired,  we agreed terms with the client.
Some details of the claim were provided by Mr A including the fact that the joint 
venture was an informal one and S liability was in the region  of £96,000.
The law firm looking  at the claim said it wouldnt be covered as the policy  had been 
cancelled.
Cavendishs solicitors  say the policy was suitable for S and appears  to have covered 
the services that form the basis of the claim against S  it refers to the definition  of 
Technology Services  in the policy.
While  Mr A said a loss adjuster  opined  that a clause would defeat the claim, 
Cavendish has not seen such a report.
Even if the policy didnt cover  the claim this didnt matter  because;
othe policy excluded  joint ventures  and didnt disclose this at renewal
oS cancelled the policy having been  made aware of the consequences
Unfortunately, the solicitors didnt really address the crux of the mis-sale point.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint;
The crux of Ss complaint as conveyed by Mr A is that Cavendish mis-sold  the policy. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I am not looking at the claim issue; Mr A specifically withdrew  his claim 
and cancelled the policy. Any issue he has with the claim decision is one he must take to the 
insurer first before we can issue a determination on that matter.
There were two main points of sale at issue in this complaint; the initial  sale in January 2015  
and the changes and renewal in January 2018.  The relevant rules and guidance applicable 
to Cavendish at these times are contained  in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  Handbook 
(Insurance: Conduct of Business ICOBS).
The main  issues relevant to the advised sale (and later renewal) for Cavendish  and its 
responsibilities are;
ensuring the contract of insurance  proposed  was consistent with S insurance
demands and needs
taking reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice
take reasonable  steps to ensure  a customer is given appropriate information about a 
policy in good  time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer  can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Ref: DRN17578483What happened  in 2015 sale?
S had current professional indemnity  insurance  through a different insurance  broker.  On the 
back of a discussion, which I dont have details  of, Cavendish sent S a proposal form for 
completion, which Mr A did. In describing  the business activities, Mr A confirmed it was 
translation (70%), Technology sales (20%) and Production (10%).  He also confirmed  the 
business provided localisation of files for print and software selling as part of the production  
and technology  sales. In my view S as a commercial entity was best placed to know its 
business and the types of commercial relationships it would be engaged  in. From the 
proposal form in 2015 I see nothing that should reasonably  have put Cavendish on notice 
about the types of relationship outside of the usual direct ones such as the agreement with 
an end user. 
The policy sold had a covering letter, which stated Although the information in the 
documents has been checked for errors,  I would  urge you to examine them yourself, paying 
particular attention to the conditions, endorsements and exclusions. Listed as an extension 
to the indemnity provision included cover for any claim or circumstance arising  from the 
professional business carried out by or in the name of any joint venture but only in respect  of 
the acts or omissions of the insured. And listed as a specific  exclusion were commercial 
disputes between  the insured and a business partner/associate, which included a joint 
venture partner to the extent that the claim was based on specified matters.
Based on the above Im minded to find that Cavendish  met its obligations  and couldnt  
reasonably have been expected to know the vagaries of the commercial  relationships  S was 
or would be involved  in. 
What happened  at the January 2018 renewal?
Around July 2016 Mr A completed another proposal  form and the insurance quotation said 
that a summary  of cover was To provide protection for costs and damages  you become 
legally liable  to pay in respect of claims arising out of the conduct of your business.
But like every insurance policy there are limits  and conditions on this and reference was 
made to the policy wording. Looking at the documentation and process from that time there  
was, in my view, no changes in substance  from 2015 that should have put Cavendish on 
notice to explore  the issue of joint ventures. The policy addressed  this as Ive already 
mentioned.
In November 2017 and coming up to the 2018 renewal Mr A contacted  Cavendish  to say that 
S was no longer just a technology  consultancy but also sold translation services and 
technology with 90% of the activity being  translation and transcreation Id (sic) marketing 
material with tech. Cavendish sent S a new proposal form for completion stating it would 
take the matter  out to the (insurance) market. There were various  emails  between Mr A and 
Cavendish in which Mr A gave information,  which included how business work was 
undertaken on a fixed basis, the type of business and specific  activities  it no longer  
undertook. There was no suggestion that S was involved in joint ventures with other 
commercial entities. Mr A signed  and returned  the renewal documentation around  18 
December 2017,  and accepted the quotation confirming several assumptions including  that 
there were no material changes to the business since  2016.
The policy sold insured  S against several events  with indemnity for all loss resulting from any 
claim against S which gives rise to a civil liability of S incurred solely in the performance of 
technology services  and from technology product failure. The policy defines various words 
Ref: DRN17578484including Data and Technology Services which are, in my view broad in nature capable of 
covering a wide-range of technology related services and information.  Under  the policy;
Data means electronically stored digital or digitised information  or media.
Technology Product Failure means  any actual or alleged  breach of duty, act, error, 
misstatements, misleading statements or omissions, by the Insured, in connection  
with any Technology Product. 
Technology Product means any computer hardware  or firmware: sold,  leased or 
otherwise supplied; or licensed; or installed,  modified or serviced;  by any Insured.
Technology Services  means any: software  services; or Data services;
And as with all insurance policies it laid out several  exclusions including loss arising  out of 
work done by S in a joint venture. 
 
One of Mr As main  points  is that Cavendish set up a policy  without checking it was fit for 
purpose and S needs based on the application. While Cavendish has various obligations,  as 
outlined earlier and which  Im satisfied they met, Mr A was best placed to know  how he 
operated his business and the commercial  relationships of S. As part of the renewal process 
and documentation  Cavendish wrote to Mr A urging him to examine the policy  
documentation paying particular attention to the conditions, endorsements and 
exclusions. In an email  to the insurers complaints department in January 2019 Mr A 
accepted that he did not check  the policy details.
Mr A says the policy wasnt fit for purpose, or in other words suitable. Cavendish  has 
provided information from S website, which shows that technology was a fundamental part 
of the services S provided. Some references  are as follows;
Our innovative technology  is easy to use and enables you to have full control 
throughout the transcreation process
Log in and edit directly on to the page
Our technology is a user friendly  as it is cutting edge
Using innovative technology  to streamline transcreation
While Mr A makes  the point that translation services  were  not covered by the policy that isnt 
correct. Where done through or with the aid of technology services  or technology products 
such activity is covered. And indeed, this is the type of activity  apparent  from S website.
It was only in July 2018,  some  six months after renewal, that Mr A asked Cavendish if joint 
ventures were covered. This was because a client of S had asked Mr A in May 2018 to 
prove evidence  of professional indemnity insurance  for joint ventures. Cavendish  looked to 
the insurer to see if that could  be accommodated but before getting an answer  Mr A 
cancelled the policy. The fact that he was able to get a policy  elsewhere that apparently 
covered S joint ventures  doesnt mean,  as a corollary, that Cavendish mis-sold the policy.  
Mr A was able to articulate to the new insurance  broker that he specifically needed cover for 
joint ventures, something he didnt  explain  to Cavendish as part of S business activity.
Taking everything into account  Im not persuaded that Cavendish mis-sold  the policy to S. It 
seems to me the insurers  stated reason to decline S claim was because the policy had 
been cancelled  and notification came after that point. The policy was a claims made one 
meaning it was a condition of the policy that any claim be notified during the life of the policy.  
If Mr A is unhappy with what the insurers have done, then hell need  to make that complaint 
to them.
Ref: DRN17578485replies to my provisional  decision
Cavendish accepted my provisional decision,  but S did not and in summary made the 
following points;
Cavendish owed  S a duty of care to ensure the policy covered the types of claims for 
which S had sought to insure by the policy.
S has never been involved  in a joint venture.
Its irrelevant that Mr A cancelled the policy, it didnt cover the types of claims for 
which S had sought insurance.
When Mr A had asked for the claim to be reinstated, the loss adjuster appointed  by 
Cavendish believed  S wasnt covered, regardless of the cancellation. This supports 
the position that the policy was mis-sold.
Cavendish didnt  meet  its obligations  in failing to consider  S types  of business 
relationships and claims it required insurance for.
Cavendish failed  to consider that the majority  of S business related to translation 
services.
S website is irrelevant to the issues.
My observation that the policy defines  various wordswhich are, in my view broad 
in nature capable  of covering a wide-range of technology related services  and 
information. is irrelevant and entirely  unsupportable since  the policy didnt cover the 
types of claims for which S had bought the policy to cover.
Im required to consider the suitability of the policy and Cavendish  didnt meet  its 
obligations.
The policy wasnt consistent with S demands.
Cavendishs loss adjuster confirmed that even if the policy hadnt been cancelled  it 
would not have covered the claim.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The response from S solicitor doesnt  bring  new information or, in real terms, expand 
arguments previously  made. 
One of the challenges  in this this case  is that Mr A withdrew his claim notification,  and so it 
wasnt investigated. Notwithstanding what the solicitors have said about  Cavendishs loss 
adjuster Ive not seen documentation  that shows the insurer considered the claim and 
rejected it. And indeed,  its not my role in this decision to decide about  whether the 
withdrawn claim  should be paid or not. My determination concerns the question of whether 
the policy was mis-sold.
It hasnt been  contested  that the main issues relevant to Cavendish are;
ensuring the contract of insurance  proposed  was consistent with S insurance
demands and needs
taking reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice
take reasonable  steps to ensure  a customer is given appropriate information about a 
policy in good  time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer  can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Ref: DRN17578486The duty on Cavendish,  in my view, isnt one without limits. Thats  to say I think  it would  be 
unreasonable to expect  Cavendish to have considered every possible eventuality, no matter 
how small or seemingly insignificant, to ensure the policy covered every claim S might  make 
in the future. Mr A had described the nature  of his business and the policy covered, in my 
view, risks and perils relevant to S business.  As Ive said,  Im not persuaded that the 
potential claim has been investigated or that it would or wouldnt succeed. Thats usually a 
matter for the insurer to determine, although the only documented aspect to this is that joint 
ventures are excluded.  I appreciate the solicitor says Mr A has never been involved in a joint 
venture but thats contrary to what Mr A wrote to Cavendish around July 2018,  we are in a 
JV [joint venture]  with a business who we deliver  translations services under their brand.
Its on the joint venture  issue  though that Im now reaching a different conclusion to that in 
my provisional decision. Ive written to both parties explaining why, and Ill summarise their 
responses in turn;
On behalf of S
As S main business was translation  Cavendish should have ascertained the types of 
claims for which  S needed cover related to translation services
As the policy wasnt consistent with S main  business activities  Cavendish cant  be 
said to have taken  reasonable  care to ensure that its advice in providing  the policy it 
did was suitable  for S.
Cavendish didnt  point  out that the policy did not cover  translation services, only 
technology services  so it cant be said that Cavendish took reasonable steps to 
ensure S was given appropriate  information  about the policy.
Its clear that Cavendish mis-sold the policy
On behalf of Cavendish
Cavendish has commented both on the decision to uphold and the proposed  redress.
Liability/decision to uphold
At no point did Mr A, when renewing the policy, advise Cavendish  that S was 
engaged in a joint venture.
Mr A did specify  that S had a large  contract, with a firm Ill call W, but not that it was a 
joint venture.
The proposal form asked for details  of any other  trading titles for which  cover was 
required and a firm Ill call M was stated.  But it still wasnt specified that there was a 
joint venture with any other party.
Mr A signed a declaration that hed disclosed accurately every material circumstance 
which is known or ought to be known by senior  management. The fact that S was in 
a joint venture with W was, in Cavendishs view, clearly a material  circumstance that 
ought to have been disclosed.
What constitutes material circumstances was described in the terms of business.
It was material because the joint venture increased the risk to insurers  by exposing 
them to the acts / omissions  of another commercial entity, which  S could have been 
liable for as a result  of the arrangement.
Cavendish accepts  that it didnt draw specific attention  to the joint venture exclusion 
but did make it clear that Mr A should  carefully  review the policy, with emphasis on 
the conditions,  endorsements and exclusions (which included  the joint venture).
Mr A didnt  read through the policy to check its suitability as he was requested to do, 
and he was best placed to check that it met his companys needs.
Ref: DRN17578487Redress
Mr A raised assistance queries on two issues  in July 2018;
 
1)S had a joint venture  agreement with W whereby S delivered  translation 
services under Ws brand. No claim or notification has been raised in relation 
to this joint venture.
2)A firm Ill call J had advised  S that it had suffered a financial loss as a result of 
S translation services  and this became a notification of claim.
Cavendish says that the J arrangement  was not a joint venture and possibly this was 
the reason why S solicitors  had said there  was no joint venture relationship.
Cavendish says Mr A was simply seeking cover for the joint venture arrangement 
with W. And while  it was making  enquiries  with the insurer  about an extension of 
cover, Mr A withdrew  the claim notification  about  J, cancelled the policy  and went 
elsewhere for insurance.
Cavendishs summary
Mr A withdrew the claim and thats why it wasnt paid by the insurer,  but he had been  
advised of the risks of withdrawing the claim, but he did so anyway.
Its not fair that Cavendish should  compensate S as Mr A made no mention  of joint 
ventures either as required or as a material fact
If I uphold the complaint notwithstanding  its representations, Cavendish says any 
amount payable to J is a matter of commercial negotiation,  not for a loss adjuster. 
Junior counsel should be required to report on liability  and a loss adjuster on 
quantum.
And further information  would be required such as whether a formal  claim was made 
by J, if so whether  it was settled between the parties or, indeed, discontinued  by J.
If the claim is by W, again more information  would be required.
Premium refunds  and any increased premium  for joint venture cover should  be 
considered in any payment, as should policy excesses
On reconsidering  the information again  Ive taken  into account the policy that was originally 
sold to S. In that policy it says, and I summarise,  the insured is indemnified for any claim or 
circumstance arising  from the professional business carried out by or in the name of any 
joint venture but only in respect of the acts or omissions of the insured.
The events that led to this complaint were that Mr A queried with Cavendish if he had 
indemnity in relation to a joint venture with W and that there was a potential claim from J. 
When he found out that he didnt  have joint venture cover, he cancelled the policy, withdrew 
claim notification  and obtained insurance  cover  elsewhere. 
When the 2018 renewal was upcoming Cavendish recommended renewing the policy but 
went out to the market  and found a policy  at a reduced price. I cant see that Cavendish 
pointed out to Mr A any material  differences in the policies, but there  was indeed a difference 
in the coverage  of joint ventures. I note in correspondence from the 2018 policy  underwriter 
to Cavendish Please  review documentation  carefully to ensure  that this meets  with your 
clients (sic) requirements. In recommending this policy  to Mr A Im satisfied Cavendish,  in 
taking reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice, should have pointed out the 
complete restriction in cover for joint ventures given it was a broad aspect of cover that was 
not covered by the new policy.
Ref: DRN17578488I dont agree with Cavendish  that its always enough just to rely on the declarations within  its 
terms and that Mr A should  have realised a joint venture  was a material  circumstance. If it 
were as simple as that then what part does Cavendish play in the advised sale? Cavendishs  
own argument can be flipped to say its own acceptance that a joint venture is a material  
circumstance makes  it even more important for Cavendish to have specifically drawn Mr As 
attention to the fact that the policy it recommended had a significant element of cover 
missing from the previous  policy. And therefore,  Im satisfied its reasonable to have 
expected Cavendish to have pointed  this out. On this alone Im satisfied the policy was mis-
sold and so I dont  intend to explore the other  points  raised.
The next part in considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances is to 
consider what difference this would have  made.  Given  Mr A knew he was involved in a joint 
venture, I think its more likely than not he wouldnt  have accepted the policy  proposed and 
stayed with the original  policy.  In these circumstances  the claim relating to the contract with 
J would  have been considered under the previous policy by the previous insurer. Thats  not 
to say it would have been paid but it would have  been considered to see if it was covered.
To put things right  
Cavendish makes some relevant point about  the redress.  Cavendish is aware that the 
contract J apparently lost was worth between £50,000 and £60,000. And weve  previously 
explained to Cavendish that the losses claimed  by Mr A amount  to £46,859.87 and are 
broken down as follows;
£25,159.87 of billing  which was written off 
£3,500 of legal costs  
£18,000 worth of costs that had to be paid out with no income to suppliers. 
I think the option for commercial negotiation has passed. So, a decision on liability, that is 
whether the claim  regarding the lost contract would be covered  by the 2016 policy,  needs  to 
be made. And by this, I mean  would  the insurer have accepted liability  such  that it would 
have covered the claim from J against S? If it wouldnt have so accepted,  such as a policy  
exclusion for example,  then the amount of the claim is irrelevant as the policy wouldnt cover 
S against J. And so, its necessary to have the liability issue looked at first. 
Cavendish has asked  that liability be considered by junior counsel,  rather  than a loss 
adjuster, who is better placed to determine contractual  wording. Mr A has agreed to this 
subject to Cavendish  declaring any potential conflict with named counsel such  as whether 
Cavendish has instructed them previously. Cavendish says if counsel  concludes that cover 
would have been provided  under the policy then a loss adjuster will be instructed to assess  
quantum  the amount  of the claim.  
And it must necessarily follow that S would need  to engage with Cavendish to provide copies 
of relevant correspondence and documentation underlying the claim and supporting the 
existence of the contract at issue and evidence  of the losses claimed. The 2016 policy 
requires the insured to give all such information  and assistance as may be required and 
provide full co-operation. Im satisfied this is necessary  for counsel to consider liability and 
for the loss adjuster to consider quantum. 
Im satisfied if counsel concludes that the policy would have covered Js claim against S, and 
a loss adjuster  confirms  quantum  then Cavendish must pay compensation to S, equivalent to 
the amount of the claim that the loss adjuster  concludes the policy  would cover.
Ref: DRN17578489Cavendish has made representations on deductibles if I maintain my decision to uphold  the 
complaint. I had explained in an email to both parties that the loss adjuster should deduct 
any applicable  policy excess  and apply any other  policy limits, as thats what would have 
happened under  the policy. And Im satisfied that should remain.
But there is the issue of the premium difference had the policy remained with the previous 
insurer and the refund paid to S when the policy was cancelled.  The renewal price for the 
previous policy  was £930 and so any amount less than this paid for the mis-sold policy  
(taking into account any refund) can also be deducted from the settlement*.
And S has been  inconvenienced in having to arrange alternative insurance and deal with a 
potentially litigious situation where  the insurance  policy may well have taken this 
inconvenience away. Im satisfied £250 is a fair compensatory award.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Cavendish Munro Professional Risks Limited to do the 
following;
a.Provide Mr A with three  biographies of independent junior counsel (cant be 
in-house counsel)
i.Cavendish must  be transparent  and declare to Mr A whether 
Cavendish has used  the services of each  named counsel  and briefly  
the context (e.g. contract dispute; professional indemnity issue).
ii.Cavendish should be cognisant of PRIN 2.1 (8) in the FCA Handbook 
that it must manage conflicts of interest  fairly
iii.Mr A to notify Cavendish which junior  counsel he wishes to proceed 
with. 
b.Instruct said junior counsel to consider whether the claim against  S by J 
would be covered by the 2016 policy,
i.Instructions should reflect that given this is a retrospective  
consideration of liability certain  policy terms and conditions may well 
not be appropriate to consider (such as but not limited to; if a claim 
must be reported within a certain  timeframe; incurring costs or 
expenses connected with a claim without the insurers written 
consent). 
ii.Instructions must be shared with Mr A.
c.Pay junior counsels fee.
d.If junior counsel considers there  is policy coverage for Js claim against S, 
then Cavendish must instruct and pay for a loss adjuster  to consider the 
amount payable. This will necessarily consider policy excesses and limits as 
well as the amount  to reflect the difference in premium*.
i.Cavendish must  pay the remaining claim amount to S. 
e.Pay S £250 compensation for inconvenience  (whether the claim is covered or 
not).
i.Cavendish must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, 
it must  also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf  of 
S, to accept or reject  my decision before 13 April 2020.
Ref: DRN175784810Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman.
Ref: DRN1757848