K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a used car he got with a hire purchase agreement  from BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (trading as Alphera  Financial Services) is of unsatisfactory  quality.  
Mr S is represented by a relative but Ill refer to everything thats  been  said on his behalf as if 
Mr S had said it himself, to keep things  simple. 
background
Mr S got this car in September 2015. He had some trouble with it in 2016 and the dealer  
carried out repairs under  the manufacturers warranty. The car broke down in May last year 
and Mr S has been told it will cost more than £30,000 to repair.  
Mr S says the car is not fit for purpose and Alphera  hasnt tried to sort things out. Mr S left 
the car with the dealership and hes been  told that he will be charged  for storage. Mr S wants 
Alphera to get the car fixed, reimburse his financial losses and pay compensation. 
Alphera says Mr S had this car for nearly three years and didnt tell it about any issues until 
2018. Alphera acknowledges some repairs were  done in 2016  - at no cost to Mr S - but 
considers the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Our adjudicator says the car was three years old with over 24,000  on the clock when it was 
supplied. He notes  Mr S was able to drive it about  another 37,000 miles before it broke down  
in 2018. He accepts the car needed  repairs in 2016 but hes not satisfied that was due to the 
same issue  as the breakdown in 2018. He notes Mr S told Alphera that the dealership said 
the problem could've been  due to oil that he put in the car. On balance,  he doesnt  think  Mr 
S would have been able to drive the car as far as he did if it had an inherent fault when he 
first got it. And he doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S disagrees. He says the car was serviced properly. He thinks the breakdown was 
caused by a known fault and the car was unfit for purpose from the outset. He says any 
modern car, especially a prestige brand such as this, should reasonably be expected to 
cover over 65,000 miles without this sort of problem. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Alphera was obliged (under legislation in place  when  Mr S got this car) to ensure that the car 
was of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. What amounts to satisfactory quality varies 
according to individual circumstances. But, its generally considered  reasonable to take the 
age, cost and mileage of a car - at the point  of supply - into account.  
This car was about 3 years old with over 24,000 miles  on the clock and cost over £40,000.  I 
wouldnt expect a car of this age and mileage to meet the same  quality standards as a brand 
new vehicle. I think a reasonable  person would appreciate some parts are probably going  to 
Ref: DRN15888282be worn and would need to be repaired or replaced sooner or later - and recognise that 
general wear and tear is reflected in the lower price paid for a used vehicle. 
Theres no dispute that Mr S had some trouble with the car in 2016. Paperwork Ive seen  
says the manufacturer accepted the car was underperforming and repairs  were carried out 
at no cost to Mr S under the manufacturers  warranty. This seems to have resolved matters 
to the satisfaction  of Mr S at that time.  
I have somewhat limited  information about what went wrong in 2018. I understand the car 
went into limp mode, kept revving (even  after Mr S took the key out of the ignition) and the 
engine block  was damaged. But, I havent  got enough evidence  to safely conclude  that an 
inherent defect was the likely cause. 
I understand Mr S feels strongly that the 2016  issue is related to the problems he had in 
2018 - he says the car has never been  right and theres a known fault with this model. But, I 
havent got enough evidence to fairly  find its likely this car has a recurring or inherent fault.  
I discussed this with Mr Ss representative.  I asked if he could provide more information  - or 
if he wanted to consider  getting an independent  expert to look at the car and provide  an 
opinion. I gave Mr S additional time to make further  submissions if he wanted to. The time 
limit I set for any further submissions has now passed and Mr S hasnt sent us anything  else 
- or indicated that he needs more time to do so. 
Given the age and mileage of this car at the point of supply - and the distance  Mr S was able 
to cover over the three years after that - I am not satisfied its likely to have been faulty at the 
point of supply.  On balance, I think the issues Mr S experienced in 2018 were probably  
caused by wear and tear. Im unable to hold Alphera responsible for that. And I cant  
reasonably require Alphera to pay for repairs or do anything further in these  circumstances. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr S wanted.  I have  sympathy for the situation he finds  
himself in now. And I understand my decision is likely to come  as a disappointment.  Mr S 
isnt obliged to accept what Ive said - in which case, it remains open  to him to pursue this 
matter by other means, should  he wish to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1588828