K820x#14complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about a property  insurance  policy she holds  with Society  of Lloyds 
(SoL). She has been told by two different mortgage  lenders that their surveyors have 
identified signs of movement in her property, but SoL wont accept a claim and wont 
complete any repairs  to her property.  Miss M is unhappy about this as she believes that until 
SoL repairs her property, she cant refinance  it.
background
In late 2014 Miss M took out a property insurance  policy for a property she owns  and rents  
out. It covered the property for a number of specific perils or events, which included 
subsidence. 
In early 2019 Miss M applied via a broker to re-mortgage her property. The lender surveyed 
the property and commented that there was evidence of structural movement. The lender 
asked Miss M to arranged  for a suitably  qualified professional to produce a report  on the 
structural integrity of the property. 
Miss M contacted SoL and asked  that it investigate the problems  in the property  identified  by 
the lenders surveyor. SoL arranged  for the property to be inspected in February  2019.  It was 
concluded that there were no signs of current subsidence in the property and the internal 
cracking was likely due to thermal movement or vibration from passing traffic.  SoLs  expert 
also concluded the damage  to the property was longstanding and likely had occurred before 
the insurance policy existed. However, SoL was willing to consider any evidence from Miss 
M that its conclusions were wrong and her property was suffering  from current subsidence.
In light of SoLs conclusions, Miss M returned  to her mortgage broker and paid another  fee 
to the broker for a further re-mortgage application. The property  was surveyed again and the 
result was that the surveyor  found there were signs of structural  movement and before 
confirming the property was suitable to lend on, Miss M needed to get a structural  integrity  
report produced on the property.
Miss M went back to SoL as shed decided its conclusions about the property were wrong. 
When it again declined  to complete any repairs to the property she complained.  SoL  
considered Miss Ms complaint, but didnt alter its conclusions or decision  there wasnt a 
valid claim under the insurance policy. Miss M wasnt happy with this response and referred 
her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld.  
Miss M didnt accept the investigators conclusion. She highlighted that two surveyors had 
said there was subsidence/structural movement, so SoL needed to investigate further and 
rectify the faults.  Miss M said she felt it unfair  if the customer has to pay for an investigation.  
She asked  if that is the case, what is insurance  for? She asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a second review.
Whilst the complaint  was waiting to be considered by an ombudsman  Miss M arranged for 
an engineer to assess her property  and complete some  site investigations. The report 
produced detailed the various evidence of movement in the property and the engineer  said:  
the property has suffered  from longstanding movement with a general slope of the property 
being downwards towards the right and to the front. The pattern of cracking would  suggest  
Ref: DRN17817742 that further ongoing movement may well be occurring to the front and side wall, party wall 
and internal walls. In addition, it was detailed  Sloping of the front wall and particularly with 
the cracking beneath the cill and opening  up of the joint to the stonework to the bay would  
tend to suggest that further movement particularly to the front is ongoing.
The site investigations  identified the property was built on what is called made  ground,  
where soil and other materials are brought to a building site.  The borehole  taken indicated  
the made ground was possibly over 2m deep.  Below  the made ground there was peat with 
sand and sandstone gravel  mixed  in. The engineer explained that both these  types of 
ground were weak and this was likely  the cause of the movement  the property had suffered. 
He said that in order to avoid further  movement the property needed to be underpinned.  
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  her opinion on the outcome of the complaint. 
The complaint was passed  to me to consider  and I asked SoL for its comments on the 
reports. 
SoL confirmed it had already reviewed the reports and provided a copy of its final 
assessment of the claim,  which had been sent to Miss M in October 2020. This stated the 
tenants in the property  had confirmed the internal cracking had been  there  throughout their 
ten-year tenancy  and had reappeared every time they decorated, but it didnt appear to have 
become noticeably worse.  SoL also included a photograph of the exterior  of the property 
taken in 2009, which showed  cracking above  the front door.  The cracking was in the same 
place when compared with a 2019 photo  it had taken, and showed the cracking hadnt 
worsened. 
SoL continued by confirming  that having seen  the site investigations, it agreed the likely  
cause of the movement the property had suffered was due to the poor load-bearing  capacity 
of the ground. However, given the comments of the tenant and the photographic evidence,  it 
remained satisfied there had been historic  settlement of the building.  It said any further,  
more recent  movement whether ongoing or now arrested, commenced  prior to the start 
[renewal] of this insurance policy in December 2018. It also said the property could be level 
monitored to confirm whether the property  was stable or currently  moving.  
However, SoL decided  not to monitor the property as it concluded that when Miss M applied  
for the policy, she hadnt answered the question about cracking to the property correctly. 
Had she done so, it would  likely have asked for a structural engineering report  before 
agreeing to insure the property for subsidence.  Had that happened, it is satisfied the report 
would have said the same  thing as Miss Ms engineer did in August 2019. At which point, it 
would have declined  to offer subsidence cover  on the policy. In light of this, it amended  the 
policy from inception and removed the subsidence  cover. Given the change, SoL said that 
when Miss M made her claim,  there  wouldnt have been any cover in place that could have 
covered it. Therefore, it maintained its rejection  of her claim.
I asked SoL for more  information  in light of the change to its position on the claim. It provided 
further information about its underwriting  of the policy.  It also confirmed that when Miss M 
originally applied for the policy she had been  asked Is the property free from cracking or any 
other signs of damage, heave  or landslip? Miss M said Yes. The question  and Miss Ms 
answer were  included in the statement of facts, which she was sent in 2014 and asked to 
check. SoL said a further copy had been  provided at each of the policy renewals since  then 
with a request  to check the information  contained  in it. At no point  had Miss M said any of 
the information was incorrect.
Ref: DRN17817743On 15 January 2021 I issued a provisional  decision  explaining my conclusions  in this case 
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt.
The circumstances of this complaint  has changed  materially since it was referred to this 
service. At the time there  was a dispute about  whether  the property was currently suffering 
from subsidence. However, following new evidence from Miss Ms engineer, which  said the 
property was likely to be currently moving,  SoL completely reassessed  the claim. That is 
what I would  have  expected it to do when  receiving new expert evidence.
Before I consider the detail of the current situation  with the claim and complaint,  I will 
comment on a concern Miss M had early in the process. Miss Ms prospective mortgage 
lender had a valuation  done on the property.  The surveyor identified  that there was evidence  
the property had suffered from some form of movement. Due to this, the lender asked 
Miss M to obtain a report  on the structural integrity  of the property. The lender would have 
been expecting  Miss M to have approached a structural engineer  or other similar expert to 
have the property assessed and reported on (as she did in 2020 after her claim had been 
declined). 
Miss M had been told by the prospective  lender what she needed to do to have her 
application considered further. She hadnt done  what shed been asked to do and so the 
outcome of the new application was the same as the first. Whilst SoL said the property 
wasnt suffering from current subsidence, lenders in this type of situation would want more  
information than that. It wouldnt be the role of an insurer to provide the type of report Miss M 
needed to use with a mortgage  application.  So, I cant find SoL was responsible for the costs 
Miss M incurred for her second  re-mortgage  application.
In this case, whilst  SoL appears to have now accepted Miss Ms property  may be suffering 
from ongoing subsidence, it has looked  further into the circumstances of the claim and policy 
application. When a claim for subsidence  is made  and there is evidence of longstanding 
movement, it is quite  normal  for an insurer to look at what  it was told about the property 
when the policy was taken out. That is what SoL has done.
SoL has provided evidence that Miss M was asked whether there  was any cracking to the 
property in 2014. She said no, that there  was not. However, the evidence  it has obtained 
shows that was not the case. The photograph  SoL provided from 2009 shows  a significant 
crack to the outside wall above the front door.  That crack was still there when Miss M made 
her claim in 2019, so would have been  there when she applied  for the policy. Miss Ms 
tenants also said that the internal cracking  has been  present for throughout the ten years 
theyve been living in the property. In light of this information, I am satisfied that SoL is right 
in saying Miss M didnt  answer the question she was asked  correctly.  
When a policyholder hasnt disclosed information  they should,  we will establish, as best we 
can, what the position would have been  if the correct information  had been given to the 
insurer. In this case it is a case of what the insurer  would have done, had it been told about  
the cracking. Many insurers  would  have declined to offer a policy  without further 
consideration, however, SoL has explained the policy  Miss M applied for accepts  some  
non-.standard risks, so it doesnt take that type of position. Its underwriter has said that, if 
the cracking had been declared, it would  have asked  for more information about  it. Miss M 
would have been asked to obtain  a structural engineering report  on the condition  of the 
property (much as her prospective mortgage  lenders did in 2019).  SoL said it would still have 
offered her a policy, but whether it would have included cover  for subsidence would have  
depended on what the structural engineer said about the cracking.  
Ref: DRN17817744It is not possible to know  for certain  what would have been said in 2014 if a structural 
engineering report  had been commissioned. SoL has said it has assumed that had a 
structural engineer  investigated the cracking  in 2014 the same conclusions would have been  
reached as were in 2020. I dont think that is an unreasonable assumption. The underwriter 
has said that had it been told the property had progressive subsidence, cover for subsidence 
wouldnt have been included in the policy  it offered. I see no reason to question this, as it 
would be highly unusual  for an insurer to offer cover  for damage  that already exists.
In the situation  where there  has been  a misrepresentation of facts  on a commercial  policy  
application, an insurer is allowed to put itself back in the position it would have been in, but 
for that misrepresentation. In this case,  the policy Miss M had wouldnt have included 
subsidence cover, and so SoL has removed  that cover from her policy from inception. That 
is not unreasonable. Therefore, there would have been no cover in place for the claim 
Miss M made in 2019 and so I dont think SoL has done anything wrong in again declining to 
accept her claim.
SoL confirmed it had received my provisional  decision, but made  no further comment.
Miss M didnt accept my conclusions. She made various comments about  the condition  of 
the property at the time of the claim and how she believes it evidenced the property was 
subsiding at that time. In addition, she considered that as subsidence  cover  was included  in 
the policy when  it was taken out, the claim should be covered. 
Miss M highlighted that since the first surveyors visit to the property she had always  
declared to SoL that there was cracking at the property. SoL told them this was acceptable 
at the time of notifying it of the claim and said it was quite  normal for a property of that age. 
She said shes lost a lot of money because SoL didnt settle the claim and she still cant 
re-mortgage the property as the lender still feels there is structural movement in the 
property. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, along with 
Miss Ms further comments, to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Whilst I have noted  Miss Ms further  comments in this case,  as I explained in my provisional 
decision, the issues in this case changed  notably during the course  of her complaint. SoL is 
no longer declining the claim  because there  is no movement in the property, but rather  it is 
saying that had Miss M declared the cracking to it before she took out the policy,  it would 
never have  given her subsidence cover and so a claim could  never have been made. 
I have looked  at the evidence again and I remain satisfied that if Miss M had given SoL an 
accurate answer  when  she took the policy out, she would never have had subsidence cover 
on her policy.  Given  the misrepresentation was a mistake on Miss Ms part, SoL is entitled to 
retrospectively alter the policy to what it should have been  a policy  without cover  for 
subsidence. As such, I cant find that SoL did anything wrong in not settling Miss Ms claim.
Ref: DRN17817745my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 17 
March 2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1781774