K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) Agria  turned down her pet 
insurance claim. 
Ms E will notice  that the financial business name  has changed. This is because  Agria is the 
insurer for the policy and is the correct business for this complaint to be against. The 
company that Ms E has been corresponding with is acting as Agrias agent. The change  in 
name doesnt affect the outcome of her complaint.   
background
In February 2018  Ms E adopted a cat. On 14 March 2018 she took out a lifetime pet 
insurance policy with Agria.  In April 2018  she made a claim to Agria  for her cats 
lumbosacral disease, which causes her cat pain in the back. Her vet says this is a chronic 
condition, which sadly will affect the cat for life.  
Agria turned  down the claim. It said Ms E had noticed signs  and symptoms  of the cats 
illness within  10 days of taking out the policy. This meant that under the policys  terms the 
claim wasnt covered. 
Ms E disagreed and said the vet had been  wrong to send in the claim when they did. The vet 
sent a letter  to Agria explaining the background to the cats illness.  Agria  considered  the 
vets comments but said they didnt change  its position. Ms E came  to us.
Our investigator thought Agria had fairly rejected the claim,  so she didnt  uphold  the 
complaint. Ms E didnt agree so the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Agria has fairly turned  down Ms Es claim. Ive been sorry to learn 
of her cats illness and Im sure it has caused  a lot of distress.  But having reviewed all the 
evidence I think Agria did make a fair claims decision, so I dont uphold  this complaint. Ill 
explain my reasons. In doing so I realise  that Im repeating some information thats already 
been explained to Ms E. But I need to do this to explain the basis  for my final decision.
The policy terms say theres no cover for pre-existing conditions,  or for an illness that shows  
signs within 10 days of the policy starting.  Terms  like these arent unusual in pet insurance  
policies and we dont consider them unreasonable. The terms are clearly set out in the policy  
document including in the key features section. 
Ms Es vet has explained  to Agria that the cats condition is likely a chronic one that was only 
noticed in her new home when she was being  observed more  closely.  The vet said This sort 
of condition can have  waxing and waning clinical signs, which may have been why it was not 
noticed prior to adoption, even though most  likely  the injury was already present.
So theres no question  here that Ms E took out the policy  in good faith. She didnt realise that 
there was anything wrong with her cat when  she adopted her. 
Ref: DRN15661082But the difficulty I have  is that the evidence shows that the clinical signs of the cats illness 
did appear within the first 10 days of the policys start or inception date of 14 March 2018;  
the clinical signs did show by 24 March 2018.  
The vets clinical notes  say that on 31 March 2018 Ms E took the cat to the vet as she was 
worried she was in pain.  The vet couldnt positively identify where  the pain was coming from 
and suggested  further tests. The relevant parts of the vets notes for this consultation say 
Ms E was concerned that the cat had had 3 episodes over the last 10 days  of making a 
horrible crying/wailing  and U+ [urinating] herself  also then reclusive and withdrawn  for about 
24-48 hours afterwards.  O [owner]  concerned in pain. DUDE [defecating, urinating, drinking 
and eating] otherwise normal at home.
The vet made some  additional notes including that the cat was reluctant to jump on things 
or do the stairs. The vet advised carrying out some  tests  including  a urine sample to rule out 
urinary issues and said may need  back and HL [hind leg] xrays to see if ortho [orthopaedic] 
pain. The vet also queried dental  pain. 
When submitting the claim  form the vet said that the policyholder had first noticed signs  or 
symptoms of the illness on 22 March 2018.  The vet later corrected this saying there was no 
mention of back pain until 31 March 2018,  and that before this the cat had had only over the 
counter medication  to help calm  her. 
But it doesnt matter  that the first mention of back pain was 31 March  2018. This is because 
Ms E had noticed  the clinical  signs within 10 days of the policys start date; that is, the three  
episodes of the horrible crying and wailing  over the last 10 days. If we include the date of 
the vet consultation on 31 March 2018  that takes us back to 22 March 2018. And that date 
was within  10 days of the policys start date of 14 March 2018. 
I appreciate the diagnosis  wasnt  made until April 2018. But the important issue  here is that 
Ms E first noticed signs of the cats illness within 10 days of the policy starting.  I know  she 
considers this an injustice but I think Agria has made a fair decision to turn down her claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1566108