K821x#15complaint
Ms S says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  which Ms S took out to protect her mortgage in 1993. 
The policy paid a monthly benefit  in the event of accident or sickness or unexpected 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ss complaint.  Mainly  she said that given Ms Ss circumstances 
and the benefits she had through  her employment  at the time,  she didnt need the policy 
enough to make its benefits  worth the cost for her. 
Santander disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that when Ms S first 
complained she wasnt sure what her employment was when she took out the PPI. It also 
said that other insurance she had at the time didnt offer like for like mortgage protection.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I have decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended  Ms S to take out a PPI policy  which would cover her if she was 
unable to work because she was sick or had an accident, or if she lost her job. Ms S 
accepted Santanders recommendation. Because Santander made  this recommendation, it 
needed to make sure the PPI was suitable  for Ms S. This means that Id expect Santander   
to have asked  appropriate questions to check if Ms S was likely to be able to benefit 
sufficiently overall from paying to have the PPI. 
I dont know what was said about the PPI or exactly how any questions about  it were put to 
Ms S. Santander shouldve made  enquiries to find out what  Ms Ss job benefits were, to be 
able to advise  her on the suitability of the PPI.   
Santander wouldve  already known what Ms Ss job was as this information wouldve likely 
been provided in her mortgage application.  And I think  it ought  reasonably  to have been 
aware that Ms Ss employment  offered  her very good job security and employee  benefits. 
So I think its fair and reasonable to expect that Santander shouldve enquired carefully into 
her likely work benefits before personally  recommending the PPI to Ms S. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest if or how this happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Santander has said, including that the policy  wouldve  paid 
out a benefit for up to 24 months  for any one claim.  But Ms S couldve relied on continuing to 
get her full pay for as long as she was off work sick. And if she had eventually  been unable 
to continue working for medical reasons then its likely she wouldve had enhanced pension  
arrangements. Ive no reason not to rely on the information Ms S provided  to our adjudicator 
about what her employment  was at the point  of sale once  the date that Santander sold her 
the PPI was confirmed  to her.
Ref: DRN11568952So, on balance, I dont  think Ms S had a need  for the policy and it wasnt  suitable for her. If 
shed become unexpectedly unemployed or was off work for a long time sick, I think  she 
already had enough cover in place to meet  her mortgage repayments for quite a long time 
without the PPI policy. And I think its unlikely that Ms S wouldve taken out the policy  if 
Santander hadnt recommended it or if Santander  had advised  her that it might not be 
suitable for her and helped her to understand  the limited benefit that the policy  offered her. 
And if it had given Ms S good  enough  information about its cost and benefits,  in her 
particular circumstances  I dont think she wouldve  wanted it. 
I think it was mis-sold for this reason. So I dont need to deal with other issues  Ms S raised 
about the sale.
 
putting things right 
Santander should put Ms S in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the policy.  
I understand the policy is already cancelled.  So Santander should:
Pay Ms S the amount  she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Ms S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Santander UK Plc should pay Ms S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1156895