K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  unfairly  turned down his claim when  
he had to cancel  his holiday.
background
Mr C holds a travel insurance policy with Aviva  via his packaged bank account. 
At the beginning  of October 2018, Mr C booked  a holiday  abroad for himself and his partner  
and they were due to travel at the end of that same month. 
Mr C said prior to booking the holiday, his partners close relative, Miss B, suffered a seizure 
and was taken  to hospital in August 2018.  He said Miss B wasnt kept in hospital overnight,  
and was referred for an appointment  with a consultant due for the end of October 2018. Mr C 
said the doctor had said the seizure could  have been caused by something  minor and didnt 
necessarily indicate  a more serious  condition. 
In mid October, Miss B suffered a second seizure. Mr C said she was taken into hospital  for 
several days, and once  discharged, the doctor  had advised she couldnt be left alone, so she 
moved in to Mr C and his partners home.  
Mr C called Aviva to find out about  what would happen if he needed to cancel  his holiday. 
Aviva said,  based on Miss Bs first seizure having  occurred before Mr C booked his holiday, 
it didnt think it would  be able to cover his cancellation costs. Mr C was unhappy with this 
outcome and complained. 
Aviva wrote to Mr C advising  it was declining his claim. It referred Mr C to the cancellation 
terms of his policy and said his claim wasnt covered.
Within the section of the policy headed  What is not covered the terms are set out as 
follows:
Any claim where you knew at the time of opening  your [bank account] or booking  
your trip (whichever is later) that you or your travelling companion may be unable to 
travel or may need to come home  early.
Aviva said it thought that Miss Bs illness in August 2018 had been  significant enough that it 
should have been taken  into account when Mr C booked his holiday.  It said it considered any 
undiagnosed seizure as being significant  and noted  that she had a referral booked  with 
a specialist. 
Unhappy with Avivas  response,  Mr C brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr C said he was unhappy that Aviva processed a claim  as a result  of a call which he said 
was to make  enquiries only. He said there  had been  flooding in the area where he was due 
to travel,  so he could  have later cancelled for that reason. 
Aviva said it would like to obtain a medical  report regarding  Miss Bs condition and said it 
would pay the costs of this. 
Ref: DRN12891362my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Mr C raised several points around whether or not Miss Bs condition  following her first 
seizure should be considered serious. And I noted Aviva stated for example where a close 
relative is seriously ill or the event has already happened in its final response letter to Mr C. 
However, I said the terms of the policy around cancellation didnt  contain  the additional 
wording Aviva used. Rather it seemed Aviva  was giving an example in its letter. I recognised 
that this likely caused Mr C some confusion and I thought  Aviva  should have set this out 
more clearly. 
Based on the correct  wording of the policy terms around what  is not covered  Any claim 
where you knew at the time of [] booking your trip [] that you or your travelling 
companion may be unable to travel or may need to come home  early.   I thought it was 
clear from the evidence Mr C provided  about  Miss Bs first seizure, that he was aware  of 
a potential reason  he may be unable to travel, prior to booking his holiday. 
I said whilst  I appreciated  that at the time of booking the holiday, the seriousness of Miss Bs 
condition was unknown,  Mr C was aware that she was under investigation  in relation to a 
seizure. And I noted that the date of Miss Bs consultant referral was scheduled  for the day 
before Mr C and his partner were  due to go on holiday. So I thought Mr C booked his holiday 
in the knowledge that Miss B was under investigation for a medical condition,  which  could 
possibly have led to him needing to cancel his holiday. And because  of this, I didnt think  
Aviva declined the claim unfairly based  on the information it had. 
Mr C questioned Avivas  right to request details of Miss Bs medical condition. And he 
pointed out the terms of his policy detailing medical  conditions are in relation to those 
insured under the policy only. I said this is true; however  an insurer has the right to seek  
reasonable validation of any claim. And in this case,  I didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to request  further details of Miss Bs medical  condition, considering this was the basis 
of Mr Cs cancellation claim. However,  I thought  if Aviva thought  it was necessary to obtain 
this information,  it would have been  helpful for it to have requested it at the outset, before 
declining the claim.  
Aviva offered to pay for a medical report,  and Miss B agreed to this. I said its open to Mr C 
to arrange to obtain this report if he wishes. And he can send it to Aviva so it can consider 
the claim again. However, based on the evidence Id seen to date, I didnt think Aviva  had 
acted unfairly. I said that because Mr C had been clear and consistent in his testimony about 
what he knew of Miss Bs medical  condition prior to him booking his holiday. And I had no 
reason to doubt the information  he provided  about  this.  
Mr C is also unhappy with the way Aviva dealt with his call and processed  a claim 
immediately. I said it seemed Mr C had called Avivas claim line, and Aviva assumed he 
wanted to make a claim. I hadnt been provided  with the call, but I accepted what Mr C said 
about this. I thought perhaps Aviva could  have been clearer  in its communication  to Mr C 
about its intention  to process  a claim.  However, I didnt think  this was likely to have made  
a difference to the situation Mr C found himself in, as ultimately he did need to cancel his 
holiday due to Miss Bs medical condition. And the flooding Mr C mentioned in the area he 
was travelling to may not have been  a valid reason for cancelling  the trip under his policy. 
Ref: DRN12891363In summary,  I didnt think Aviva had done  anything materially wrong. And, based on the 
information Id seen, I didnt think it had declined  Mr Cs claim unfairly. 
the responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C responded and said he disagreed with my provisional decision. Ive summarised his 
points as follows: 
at the time of booking the holiday, Mr C didnt know Miss B would need to stay with 
him and his partner  and this only happened  because Miss B was visiting  them  at the 
time of her second seizure;
had Miss B been where she usually lived when  she experienced her second seizure,  
she could have  stayed  with other  family  members. And it wouldnt  have  been  
necessary for Mr C to cancel his holiday;
the date of Miss Bs consultant appointment coincided with Mr Cs booked holiday,  
however this was a standard  referral due to take place where Miss B lived at the 
time;
Aviva  used the wording "for example where a close relative  is seriously ill" in its FRL 
and Mr C thinks I shouldnt discount  this; and
Miss B was not seriously ill to Mr Cs knowledge.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mr Cs points about  where  Miss B usually resided, and that other family 
members could have  taken care of her had she been there,  I dont this makes a difference.  
When Miss B might have  had a further  seizure  and where she might have been at the time 
were all unknown factors. And I accept Mr C didnt know Miss B was seriously ill, and the 
outcome of the consultant  appointment was unknown  to him when he booked his holiday.  
What Ive focussed on is the information  which was known to Mr C at the time he booked his 
holiday, and the terms and conditions  of his policy. Ive not considered  the different wording 
used by Aviva in its final response  letter  to Mr C, as this doesnt form part of the contract. 
The policy terms exclude claims  for cancellation  as follows. 
Any claim where you knew at the time of [] booking your trip [] that you or your 
travelling companion may be unable to travel or may need to come  home  early.  
Ref: DRN12891364And as Mr C was aware that his partners close relative was under investigation for a 
medical condition,  Im still of the opinion that he knew of a potential reason he might be 
unable to travel, prior to booking  his holiday. 
As the points Mr C has raised  havent changed  my mind, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And 
I make  no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289136