K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr N says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 2002. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr N aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  the 
policy to his card. FICL has told us the PPI was added to Mr Ns card during a phone call 
after he took out his card. So I think he would have known he didnt have to take the policy  
and chose to have it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr N so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr N got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of making his 
repayments which included sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mr Ns 
sick pay, and for longer than he would  have received full pay. 
Mr N has told us he had a medical  condition when he took the policy,  but that this didnt 
affect him day to day and he didnt take time off work because of it. So although the policy  
wouldnt have covered the condition  I dont think this would have changed Mr Ns decision to 
take it out.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ns circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
Ive thought about everything Mr N has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN18586792Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1858679