K821x#15Complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about four high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to Mr B. 
Sunny provided  Mr B with his first loan in March 2018 and his last one in May 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided  
with loan four. Sunny  disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr B was unlikely  to have been  able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided loan four. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr B already had three outstanding loans with Sunny. And 
given hed repaid very little of the capital on his existing loans at this stage, I cant  see how 
Sunny could reasonably have believed that Mr B would be able to sustainably  repay  a fourth  
loan.
Ref: DRN15742532Mr B paid interest and charges on a loan that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. So I 
think that he lost out and Sunny should put things  right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about loan 4 should  be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1574253