K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc didnt agree to remove  Mr S from their 
mortgage account. They also complain about  Santanders change  of borrower process, 
which they say is intrusive.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a joint mortgage  with Santander.  In 2018 they asked Santander to remove  
Mr S from the mortgage account as this fits better with their plans for retirement. Mr S was 
prepared to sign a deed saying he doesnt  have an interest in the property. Santander  
declined the request. Mr and Mrs S say this is unfair. And Mrs S is unhappy about  the way 
Santanders advisers spoke to her. She says she was asked questions  which  were intrusive 
and intimidating.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Santander says Mr S has an interest  in the property as its a matrimonial asset. If he was 
taken off the mortgage account,  there would be a third party  someone other than 
Santander and the borrower  with an interest in the property. This would change  
Santanders risk. Santander  is entitled  to decide  whether  to agree to this. She couldnt 
say its decision was unfair.
Santander asked  for information to understand the circumstances around Mr and Mrs Ss 
request. Mrs S found  some of this upsetting.  After listening to the call recordings,  the 
investigator didnt  think  Santander  had spoken  to Mrs S inappropriately. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. Mrs S said she understood Santander has to assess  the risk. But 
she didnt think the personal and intrusive  questions were warranted.  She says shes  a long 
standing customer of Santander. She asked whether Santander  would have asked the same 
questions if shed been a man.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S have  a joint mortgage  with Santander.  They are jointly and severally liable  for 
the mortgage debt and Santander can ask either of them to pay it. If the mortgage was in 
Mrs Ss sole name she would be solely liable for the debt. 
I think its right for Santander to consider the consequences of agreeing  to Mr and Mrs Ss 
request. Its entitled to consider how this would affect its own risk, including if it needed to 
enforce its security. And it had to consider whether the mortgage  repayments were 
affordable for Mrs S.
Santander said the request didnt meet its lending criteria. It said Mr S has a potential claim 
on the property  as its a matrimonial asset.  It considered Mr Ss offer to sign a deed saying 
he has no interest in the property. But it said this wasnt sufficient to protect its security in the 
Ref: DRN12812512unlikely event it needed to take possession of the property. It said it wasnt  prepared to 
accept this risk.
Ive listened to the call recordings provided by Santander. Santander said its process  would 
require it to complete  a change of borrower application, which would  include checking  
affordability. It said Mr and Mrs S would  have to pay an administration  fee and solicitors  
fees. It asked Mrs S to confirm that Mr S had left the property. It said it would carry out a 
credit search and this would appear  on Mrs Ss credit file. 
Mrs S says some of the questions Santander asked  were personal and intrusive. Santander 
asked why Mr and Mrs S wanted to make the change. It also asked who was living at the 
property and whether  Mr S would sometimes stay there. Mrs S didnt want  to provide this 
information, which she said was personal.  But understanding  the reason for the change  is 
part of Santanders  process. And whether Mr S sometimes stayed at the property with his 
spouse was relevant to Santanders assessment about whether he might have a claim on 
the property. I think it was reasonable for Santander  to ask these questions. Having listened 
to the calls, I think the advisers who spoke to Mrs S were professional and sympathetic.
Santander asked  Mrs S for information about her income, outgoings and financial 
commitments to assess whether the mortgage  repayments were affordable.  I understand 
Mrs S had been a Santander customer for many  years and is financially independent. But 
the change shed requested would mean she was solely responsible  for repaying  the 
mortgage and Santander had to check that this was affordable. I dont think  the process 
would have been different  if Mr and Mrs S had asked for the account to be in Mr Ss sole 
name  it would still have  had to check the application met its lending  criteria and Mr S could  
afford the repayments.  
Santander explained why it declined Mr and Mrs Ss request: it wasnt prepared  to accept 
the risk to its security. Overall, I dont  think Santander treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1281251