K821x#15Complaint
Mrs N complains that Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited has unfairly declined  
a claim under her pet insurance  policy. 
Background
Mrs N holds a non-lifetime policy with Red Sands under which  cover is only available  for 
each condition for 365 days from its onset.  Theres  also an annual  cover limit of £4,000 for 
each condition. 
In October  2018, when  Mrs N took her dog to be spayed, her vet identified a heart murmur. 
The vet referred the dog for further investigations, and it was later confirmed  that it had a 
peritoneal-pericardial diaphragmatic  hernia (PPDH) and pulmonic stenosis, which are both 
heart defects. 
Red Sands  initially  accepted Mrs Ns claim for the cost of treating these conditions and made 
payments of £3,245,41 and £591.36 in early 2019. However, upon a further  review  of the 
veterinary notes it concluded that these  issues were likely first present in November 2017.  
Red Sands  pointed to a note whereby the dog had presented with mucous membrane pallor, 
and the vet had considered carrying out blood tests and monitoring specific  to the heart. 
Red Sands  relied  on this to decline a claim for £270.05, saying that the 365 day limit for 
cover had already  expired. Mrs N challenged the decision, and both her vet and the treating 
vet wrote to Red Sands  to clarify that the episode of mucous membrane pallor was unrelated 
to the heart defects  identified in October 2018.  Red Sands also sought a consultant vets 
opinion, who said there wasnt  enough  evidence to use November 2017 as the onset date. 
It therefore overturned  its decision  and agreed to pay the more  recent  claim.  But it 
interpreted from its consultant vets comments that the two defects were connected in cause. 
As a result of that, it felt only one condition limit should apply. So, once it had paid the claim 
for £270.05 it explained to Mrs N that the annual cover limit for her dogs heart conditions 
had now been  reached and no further claims would be accepted. This was distressing for 
Mrs N, who had booked her dog in for a valvuloplasty to correct  the pulmonic stenosis. 
Mrs N complained to Red Sands, but it didnt change its stance. She was therefore forced to 
cancel the valvuloplasty and medicate her dog instead.  Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and thought it should be upheld. She didnt think  it was clear  from the report that 
Red Sands  had relied on that the two conditions were connected, so she thought Red Sands 
should apply separate  condition limits. She also thought Red Sands should  pay £150 
compensation for the way it had handled the claim.  Red Sands continued to feel it was 
entitled to rely on the report from its consultant vet, so I need to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN11589972For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think it was fair for Red Sands to take the onset date for 
either condition  from November 2017.  Mrs Ns vet has explained that the dog was clinically  
well at that point,  and the treating vet has also commented that the pattern of the mucous 
membrane pallor  isnt consistent with it being related to the heart defects identified later on. 
And Red Sands  consultant vet commented  that it would be unusual for the PPDH to have 
caused pale gums in isolation. 
Further, we generally  think  its fair that the 365 days should only start from when the 
policyholder could actually have made a claim on their policy. As no treatment was required 
in November 2017, I dont think Red Sands reasonably could have used that as the date of 
onset even if it had been able to show that the mucous membrane pallor was a symptom  of 
either heart defect. 
Turning to whether  the conditions are connected  in cause, I can see that the policy defines a 
condition as any manifestation of an illness having  the same  diagnostic classification or 
resulting from the same  disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of 
your pets  body affected. So, if Red Sands wants to impose one condition limit, I think it 
needs to show  that both heart defects are manifestations of one underlying issue.  
As I understand it, both defects are congenital, and can exist independently  of each other.  
Looking through  the veterinary notes, there isnt anything which  indicates  to me that theres 
a causal relationship between them in this case.  The only comment  which  suggests  any 
interplay between the two defects is the treating  vets comment  that the existence of one 
made assessment of the other more difficult.  And I can see that although both defects were 
identified at the same time, each was due to be treated separately and at different times. 
Furthermore, since Mrs N brought  the complaint to us, the treating vet has written a letter 
confirming that the two defects are completely separate and unrelated. Im mindful  that it 
was the treating vet who diagnosed both defects, and has since corrected the PPDH, so is 
likely best placed  to comment authoritatively on any link between the two diagnoses. 
Red Sands  is relying on a comment made  in the consultant vets report  that said,  I think  
most likely the conditions are linked,  based on what we have, though the treating vets were 
battling to say themselves it seems.  But the consultant vet hasnt qualified this statement or 
pointed to any evidence  in the veterinary  notes to illustrate their findings. They also havent  
carried out any physical  assessment of the dog, so I find their comments  less persuasive. 
I agree  with our investigator that it isnt actually clear which conditions the consultant vet is 
referring to. The statement follows a paragraph  in which the vet explains that although the 
PPDH would have  been present when the dog presented with mucous membrane pallor, 
there wasnt enough evidence for Red Sands to rely on there being a link between the two. 
Its therefore unclear  whether the vet is still talking about a potential connection between  the 
PPDH and the mucous membrane pallor  in the statement that follows, or a potential  
connection between  the PPDH and pulmonic stenosis. I note that there  isnt actually any 
reference made to pulmonic stenosis in the report, so I think  the latter  is less likely.  
Ref: DRN11589973On balance, Im not satisfied Red Sands  has been  able to fairly show  that the PPDH and 
pulmonic stenosis are both manifestations of the same underlying issue, or causally linked. I 
therefore think it should apply a separate condition limit for each. Im mindful that Mrs N 
wishes to claim  for the cost of a valvuloplasty. But since  the complaint has been with us the 
365 day time limit for pulmonic stenosis has expired. I think it would be unfair for Red Sands 
to now rely on this time limit to decline the claim given that the valvuloplasty  was originally 
booked in for February 2019, which was well within the time limit. 
Our investigator also thought Red Sands should  pay Mrs N £150 compensation. I think  that 
fairly reflects the moderate amount  of trouble  and upset Red Sands caused to Mrs N by what  
it did wrong here. I dont  feel that Red Sands has provided sufficient evidence  to justify its 
decision not to accept further claims  relating  to pulmonic stenosis. Meanwhile, Mrs N has 
been left in uncertainty and experienced unnecessary additional worry regarding her dogs 
state of health.  And, shell now be put to the inconvenience of re-booking  the valvuloplasty, 
when this ought reasonably to have gone  ahead early last year.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance  
Company (Europe) Limited  to do the following:
Apply a separate condition limit for Mrs Ns dogs pulmonic stenosis;
Accept Mrs Ns claim for a valvuloplasty in line with the remaining policy terms, 
setting aside the 365 day limit on treatment for this particular condition;
Compensate Mrs N by paying her £150  in reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1158997