K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Active Securities Limited (trading as 247 Moneybox) gave him loans 
he couldnt afford to repay.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. A copy is attached  and 
forms part of this decision. In summary I said I couldnt uphold Mr Hs complaint without 
more information  from him. I also asked  247 Moneybox to provide some more information  
about things it had checked  before lending money  to Mr H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any more information. Its disappointing that 247 Moneybox has 
chosen to not respond. Because  of that Ive concluded  that it should  have carried out more 
checks than it did before agreeing to provide any of Mr Hs loans.
However, with no new information  from Mr H I cant fairly say that this error led to 247 
Moneybox acting irresponsibly when it lent to him. That means  theres no reason for me to 
change my provisional conclusions and I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18853532complaint
Mr H complains that Active Securities  Limited  (trading as 247 Moneybox) gave him loans
he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr H took out five loans  with 247 Moneybox in 2016.  These are summarised  below. Ive
rounded the amounts to the nearest pound for ease of reading.
Loan
numberDate
takenDate
repaidAmount
borrowedAmount
repaidNotes
1 8/4/2016 28/4/2016 £80 £93
2 28/4/2016 27/5/2016 £150 £186
3 27/5/2016 28/6/2016 £225 £284
4 28/6/2016 28/7/2016 £395 £493
5 29/7/2016 - £385 Payment schedule 
agreed
Mr H has repaid all the loans except the last. He agreed a repayment schedule  on this loan
and I understand  there might still be a balance  outstanding.
Mr H complained to 247 Moneybox, saying he thought it had been irresponsible  when  it lent
to him. 247 Moneybox  didnt agree, so Mr H brought his complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think 247 Moneybox  had carried out sufficient checks before it agreed
loans three,  four and five. She thought if it had carried out proportionate checks it would
have seen Mr H couldnt afford these  loans. She recommended  247 Moneybox  pay some
compensation as well as removing  information from Mr Hs credit file.
247 Moneybox hasnt responded to our adjudicators  assessment. So the complaint has
been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having done this Ive come  to a different conclusion from our adjudicator,  and Ill explain 
why.
247 Moneybox was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether
Mr H could afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, and his lending  history,  but
there was no set list of checks 247 Moneybox had to do.
247 Moneybox was regulated by Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) when it lent to Mr H. Its
guidance was clear about the responsibility of the lender to take reasonable steps to assess
whether a borrower could repay  their loans. The FCA lending Handbook (CONC)  gives  ways
of doing this, but in summary  it says assessing affordability is a borrower-focussed  test
Ref: DRN18853533which involves a creditor assessing a borrowers  ability to undertake  a specific credit
commitment, or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable  manner, without the
borrower incurring  financial  difficulties.
The handbook also says credit should be able to be repaid from income  and/or available
savings, whilst also meeting other  debt repayments  and normal/reasonable outgoings and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
That means I cant assume that because Mr H managed to repay most of his loans that he
was able to do so out of his normal means without having to borrow further. And it appears
Mr H couldnt afford  loan five  because he wasnt able to repay it on time.
We have limited information on the checks  247 Moneybox carried out. It says it asked Mr H
about his income  and expenditure. It recorded  Mr Hs income as £1,688, and his expenditure
as £640 for his first loan and £865 for his later loans. The expenditure figure includes £200
towards Mr Hs other credit commitments  each time.
247 Moneybox hasnt said how it actually assessed Mr Hs information other than that it
looked his income  and expenditure and limited his loans to a proportion  of the money he had
left after meeting his declared outgoings.  It has said Mr H passed a minimum scorecard
threshold each time he borrowed.
Ive seen Mr Hs credit file from the time and it shows he was having problems financially. He
had some defaults on loans and credit  cards, and was in arrears  on his mortgage, amongst
other things.  That in itself might not have stopped 247 Moneybox  from lending, but it should
have prompted  it to make some additional enquiries to satisfy itself he could afford  the loans
he asked for.
247 Moneybox hasnt said if it checked Mr Hs credit  file each time it lent. Theres no
requirement for lenders to check credit  files, although 247 Moneybox says it does this
normally. Id ask Moneybox to tell us whether it did that or not for these particular loans, and
whether any information  it collected was part of the scorecard  calculation.
At the moment Im going to work on the basis that 247 Moneybox  did see Mr Hs credit  file,
as that was its normal practise.
That means I think 247 Moneybox should have been  collecting more  information from Mr H
than it did for loan one. From loan two onwards I think 247 Moneybox should have got a full
picture of Mr Hs financial situation  and verified that information by whatever independent
means it chose to use. Thats  because he asked for loan two on the same day he repaid
loan one, it was for nearly twice as much, and it doesnt look as though his overall financial
position was improving.
I cant see that 247 Moneybox carried out any additional checks  for any of the loans.
For Mr Hs first loan,  I think that if 247 Moneybox  had carried out appropriate checks,  it
would have likely asked  Mr H directly if he had any other short term debt. By that I mean  it
would have asked  him for specific details of any short term loans  including repayments
due in the near future.  Instead it seems  247 Moneybox relied on a general declaration about
whether Mr H had such loans, which Mr H might have thought hed already accounted for
elsewhere. I dont think 247 Moneybox  made  sufficient enquiries  here.
For all the subsequent loans  as I said above   I think 247 Moneybox should  have verified
Ref: DRN18853534the information Mr H provided. We often  look at historic bank statements to confirm  what
247 Moneybox would have seen at the time, although it was free to verify information
however it chose.
For loans four and five, our adjudicator looked at bank statements to get details of Mr Hs
financial circumstances. I think thats a fair approach, and I think  we should do that for loans
two and three as well.
Ive looked at the statements Mr H sent in. They show an account number thats on Mr Hs
credit file, so it seems it is his account. But the statements  were  ordered by Ms P. So they
might be statements for a joint account. If they were, we need to check  which  items were  for
Mr H only  and whether he shared expenses etc. We asked Mr H to confirm the statements
were for his account   and if it is a joint account  with Ms P.
We also asked Mr H for statements for any other bank  accounts. That was for two reasons.
First, because the statements we had received didnt seem to fully reflect his circumstances.
For example, some  of the statements we do have dont show the income wed expect to see,
and there  were lots of transfers to other  bank accounts that werent explained. Second,  it
appears from Mr Hs credit file he had at least one other bank account.
Unfortunately Mr H hasnt responded to our enquiries. That means  I cant  use the
information in the statements to say what 247 Moneybox would have seen  if it had
independently verified information  Mr H provided  for loan two onwards.
Id encourage  Mr H to provide the information  weve asked for if he wants  me to take it into
account. For clarity thats statements  for any bank accounts he held,  either jointly or alone,
for the months February to August 2016. Mr H is of course free to send  me any other
information he wants me to take into account.
Without more information  from both 247 Moneybox  and/or  Mr H, Im not intending  to uphold
this complaint.
my provisional decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1885353