K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he couldnt access his bank statements through Lloyds Bank plcs app, 
and the inconvenience this caused.
background
Lloyds had technical difficulties with its banking  app during the early  hours  of 2 December 
2018, and Mr M couldnt access  his bank statements. He said this was distressing because  
he had a number  of direct debits  leaving  his account that he wanted to monitor.
Lloyds accepted there had been  a problem with the app, and apologised  to Mr M. But it said 
he couldve  accessed the account details  through its phone  banking service. So Lloyds didnt 
offer any compensation.
Our investigator thought this was fair. The account terms meant  Lloyds wasnt  responsible  
for any loss suffered when its internet services werent available.  Thats  because  it offered 
alternative means of obtaining the information.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has accepted that the banking app wasnt working properly at the time Mr M wanted 
to review his account details. 
Mr M says he couldnt use the banks  phone service because it wasnt available  at the time 
he needed it. But Lloyds  has said its phone service is available  twenty four hours a day. I 
think its likely that the system provides automated details, so that customers  can monitor 
their accounts whenever they need to.
As the investigator  has explained, the account  terms mean that Lloyds isnt responsible for 
any loss suffered when  its internet services arent  available   because it offers other  means 
of checking account details. 
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied thats the case.  So Im not persuaded that Lloyds needs to 
do anything else.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1413420