K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says that she was mis-sold a training course she purchased  with a fixed sum loan with 
TTR PT Limited  (TTR PT). 
Mrs K and Mr K were  both on the credit agreement, but the course was only for the benefit of 
Mrs K. 
background 
In September  2016, Mrs K and Mr K entered into a fixed sum loan agreement  with TTR PT 
to pay for a Web Design  and Development E-Learning Course for Mrs K. The total amount 
borrowed was £2,795.00 with a monthly instalment of £77.63 repayable over 36 months.  
Mrs K says she only signed up to the course because she was misled about  the help she 
would get with a career placement. She says that after completing the course  in 
January 2018,  she found out it wasnt linked to any specific  job vacancies. She is unhappy 
that the course support  has been limited and has not helped  her find a job. Mrs K says all 
that TTR PT have done is distributed  her CV and provided her links to unsuitable roles. 
In October  2018, TTR PT wrote  to Mrs K and said that they disagreed that the course was 
mis-sold to her. They  said that based on all the information provided to Mrs K, prior to her 
registering onto the course, she wouldve been aware that this was a course  with career 
support. And they said that they did provide Mrs K with support from their career  advice 
team. 
Mrs K was not happy with this so she referred  her complaint to our service.
Our investigator was of the opinion that, based  on the information provided, and the initial  
call Mrs K had with TTR PT, the course  was not misrepresented to her.  
Mrs K disagreed with the investigator. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K says she only signed up to the course because she was told TTR PT would help her 
with career placement  and she thought the course  was linked to specific  jobs,  but she says 
these were only advertisements for the course. She says that TTR PT told her there are 156 
jobs advertised in her area. She says the jobs advertised on a third party  website were  fake 
and they were just an advert for the course. She says that TTR PT told her that they had 10 
job interviews lined up for students that were  near completion. So overall  she says that she 
was misled in regards to the careers element of the course.  
To make a finding  of misrepresentation I would need  to be satisfied  that Mrs K was told a
false statement of fact that caused  her to enter a contract she would not have entered
into otherwise.
Ref: DRN14979042Before she entered  into the contract for the Web Development  Course,  Mrs K had a sales 
call with TTR PT. So Ive listened  to this call to see what was explained. During  the call, 
Mrs K asked what she would get at the end of the course, and the agent explains what  the 
course covers, and what qualifications she would receive once  the course is completed. He 
goes on to say they cant  guarantee to get her into work,  but they do provide  their students 
three years of ongoing careers  support.  He explains that someone from their careers  team 
would be assigned to help her with her CV and interview techniques. 
The adviser goes  on and tells Mrs K about the 156 jobs advertised, but he explains that the 
third party website he is looking  on is just to get a rough idea of what is available in the area. 
He also explains that the way they can help is by contacting the vacancies on Mrs Ks 
behalf, send off her CV, and then look to book interviews with them  but that is something 
that they cant guarantee. 
I know that Mrs K thinks that the adviser  on the call told her that they have 10 jobs interviews 
lined up for students  that were near completion, but during the call he actually talks about  
how one specific company is looking for 10 developers and that some of their students have 
interviews for those  roles.
Overall the adviser  on a couple of different occasions tells Mrs K that a job or an interview is 
not guaranteed, and he doesnt  promise  that she definitely would be offered one of the jobs 
advertised. He explains  the qualifications  she will receive and gives examples of career help 
that she would have access to. So I dont think the adviser on the call misrepresented  what 
was on offer to her.
Ive also looked  at the loan agreement Mrs K signed. Nothing in the agreement makes  
reference to a guaranteed  job or a job interview.  The terms and conditions say that upon a 
successful completion  of the Web Design and Development E-Learning Course  the 
participant will receive Certificates of Qualification.  And that the participant  will also be 
entitled to access  the Student  Services. But Mrs K says that she feels she didnt have an 
acceptable amount  of assistance with her CV and that her CV was not put forward for any 
available jobs. So Ive looked at whether Mrs K had access to the student services once she 
completed the course.
I can see from the emails between Mrs K and TTR PT that the career  support officer  has 
offered advice and assistance to Mrs K including  reviewing  her CV, providing feedback and 
also provided links to job vacancies. TTR PT have also forwarded her CV to third party  
organisations. These are all examples of the help and support Mrs K was told about during 
the call with the adviser. Taking everything  into consideration Im satisfied that TTR PT has 
fulfilled this part of its contractual  obligation  by providing her access  to their student services, 
and that the services offered were  not misrepresented  by the adviser  during the call.
I sympathise with Mrs K for the difficulties that shes experiencing   but taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account Im unable to say that TTR PT has mis-sold the 
course or breached its contract with Mrs K. So it is not fair or reasonable for me to require 
TTR PT to take any action in response  to Mrs Ks complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN14979043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1497904