K820x#14complaint
Mr P says MCE  Insurance  Company Limited  and its solicitors gave him poor service  after he 
made a claim on his motorcycle insurance  policy. Mr P is represented by his mother,  Mrs P. 
 
background
On 18 November 2017, after Mr P entered a main road from a side road, his bike was 
involved in a collision with a car. MCE thought the accident was likely  to be Mr Ps fault. But 
it started to investigate and instructed a firm of solicitors (firm F) in February 2018. Firm F 
told Mr P and MCE at the start of October  2018 that it was no longer able to act for him. It 
said that was because hed misled it. Firm F also said it thought  the prospects of success in 
defending the car drivers  claim were low.
Shortly afterwards, MCE instructed its own legal team  to act for Mr P. The legal team  told 
him on 31 October 2018 that it thought full liability should be accepted. But it thought the 
sum claimed  by the other party should  be challenged, so it continued  to act for him. 
Meanwhile, Mr P had complained to us. He said MCE wasnt  sympathetic to him at the 
outset and didnt  give him due care and attention when he called  to report the incident. He 
said he wanted his personal injury claim to be dealt with. He was unhappy with MCEs delay 
in telling him what the outcome of the liability claim was.  In January 2019 MCE told Mr P he 
could ask this service to consider his concerns. We later told MCE the issues  we were  
investigating and asked it for further  details. 
In May 2019  MCE told us that liability was still disputed and that it had filed a defence at 
court. It said it had been trying to take a witness statement from Mr P. It also said it had told 
him that dashcam footage  of the incident meant that the prospects of defending the claim 
were low. It said it would  settle the claim on the best terms possible. It said the time taken to 
deal with a claim depended on factors such as the co-operation and communication between 
the parties.    
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ps complaint. He didnt  think MCE had acted 
unreasonably. In his view MCE hadnt  caused  any undue delays and had continued to 
support Mr P. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
initial assistance and firm Fs involvement
We asked Mr P to clarify what he thought the initial lack of support from MCE was. He didnt 
give us any further  details in response  to our request.  Based on whats in the file, I cant  be 
sure what  MCE  did that caused  Mr P distress. Mrs P told us that when he called  MCE to 
report the claim, he was in hospital (or just out of hospital). She said he was on strong 
medication and wasnt  well enough  to speak to a solicitor. She said MCE forced him to 
speak to firm F. But as far as I can see, MCE didnt ask him to do that straight away.  And I 
think Mr P (or Mrs P on his behalf) could have asked for a delay if he still wasnt  up to it. In 
Ref: DRN19413102my opinion, MCE wasnt wrong in asking  firm F to assist Mr P early on, as that was in his 
interests. It was then for firm F to assess whether Mr P was in a fit state to proceed.   
MCE thought  from the start that liability  for the accident was likely  to be decided  in the car 
drivers favour as it didnt think it would be able to defend his claim. But it paid for firm F to 
act for Mr P anyway. It isnt clear what happened  between February 2018 and October 2018, 
when firm F said it was no longer  prepared  to act for Mr P. There may have been  some 
undue delay during that period. Firm F told MCE that Mr P had misled  it. If there  was any 
confusion, I think  that was bound to cause a delay.  Whatever happened,  by April 2018 MCE 
had advised Mr P that the claim should  be settled. I assume that decision  was guided by 
advice from firm F. By then the dashcam footage  of the collision had been  viewed - and it 
didnt support Mr Ps version of events  - but he still wanted to dispute  liability. 
When firm F was instructed, it advised  Mr P that it was regulated  by the Solicitors Regulation 
Authority. Although it seems Mr P wasnt happy  with the way firm F dealt with him, it doesnt 
look as though he used that route  to complain.  He would also have  been  able to complain 
about firm F to the Legal Ombudsman  service.  Mr P may still be able to use the legal 
complaints route. But we cant consider  firm Fs conduct, as it falls outside our remit.  
MCE and its legal team 
MCE reviewed  Mr Ps claim  in October  2018, after he told it hed received  court  
correspondence that would normally have been  dealt  with by firm F. Shortly  afterwards MCE 
instructed its own legal team to act for him. But in the meantime, Mr P had complained to us. 
He was unhappy with progress in general  up to October 2018 and didnt fully follow what 
was happening.  He and Mrs P said after he sent the court  documents  to MCE, he got no 
response. There was only a short  delay  between firm F withdrawing and MCEs legal team  
taking over. It seems  MCE passed on the court papers to the legal team.  But in the 
meantime, as far as I can see, it didnt tell Mr P or Mrs P what was happening. In my opinion,  
MCE should have  replied to their emails and kept them updated. So I can see why they were 
confused and unsure what to do next.  
events from January 2019 onwards
I think it would be helpful to summarise what happened over the next few months, although  I 
cant review it as part of this complaint. The file shows that the legal team chased Mr P for 
the form of authority it needed to act for him from October 2018 onwards. It also chased him 
for a statement  and for an accident  report form. Mr P told MCE he hadnt been contacted by 
the legal  team. He said that he and Mrs P had tried to call it but couldnt  get through. But in 
April 2019 the legal  team put Mr Ps defence  to the court.  As it didnt  know the full details of 
his defence, the document just protected his position and challenged  the car drivers  high 
credit hire costs. It seems  from the file that the legal team  tried to get a statement from Mr P 
until August 2019.  At that point, after a long discussion between  him, Mrs P and the legal 
team, he agreed to accept liability, so the claim was settled.     
summary of the major issues  
The policy gives MCE the right to settle any claim  as it sees  fit. I think  MCE has shown why it 
didnt think it could  defend the car drivers claim in court from the start. But it got legal advice 
anyway. The legal  advice  confirmed that there were no prospects of success  in court,  so 
liability should be accepted. In my view, it was reasonable for MCE to try to get Mr P to 
accept from the outset that it would have to settle the claim.  
Ref: DRN19413103When Mr P first contacted  us in October 2018,  he said he hadnt been  told the outcome of 
the claim.  When liability for an accident is disputed, often a claim can take many months to 
resolve. I think MCE took reasonable steps  to ensure that Mr Ps claim was progressed. I 
dont think there was any undue delay on its part. MCE  had instructed firm F to act for Mr P 
several months earlier. And hed had already been told by MCE and by firm F that they 
thought he wouldnt  be able to hold the car driver at fault for the accident. MCE couldnt give 
Mr P a final decision until much later. Thats because other issues (such  as the high cost of 
the car drivers credit  hire) had to be dealt  with first. So MCE didnt act unreasonably.   
Mr P only had cover for third party, fire and theft claims. He complained to us that MCE and 
firm F hadnt helped him to recoup his losses. But in order to claim for the damage  to his 
bike (and other uninsured losses) he would have  had to show  that the car driver was at fault. 
The same applies to his personal injury  claim.  Given the dashcam evidence, Mr P couldnt 
show that the car driver  was at fault. So that would have prevented  any successful claim. 
Mr P also complained to us about the general poor service he got from MCE. I dont think 
hes shown he got poor service at the outset.  The service  from firm F from February to 
October 2018 may have been  lacking,  but we cant look at that. During October 2018 there 
was a short period in which MCE dealt  with Mr P before  its legal team took over.  When Mr P 
and Mrs P asked MCE to help with court  papers, it referred them  to firm F (which was no 
longer acting for Mr P) in error. It later sent the papers to its legal  team. But it doesnt look as 
though MCE told Mr P or Mrs P what was going on. I can see why they would have found it 
hard to deal with letters  from the court and a lack of contact from MCE about it. I think  MCE 
should have replied to all the emails  Mr P or Mrs P sent to it  if only to say that theyd be 
passed on. So I think MCEs contact with Mr P and Mrs P could have been much better at 
times during this period.       
To reach a decision that I think is fair and reasonable,  Ive considered Mr Ps complaint as a 
whole. But Ive only been able to review  the issues he raised with us initially.  I think  the 
involvement of firm F complicated  matters, especially after it withdrew. It looks  as though  it 
wasnt always clear after that who was dealing with what. So Mr P was bound to be worried  
and confused at times.  But taking everything  into account, in general I think MCE dealt  with 
Mr Ps claim during  2017  / 2018  reasonably, despite some  poor communication  on its part. 
I know Mr P wont be happy with my decision, but I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to uphold  his complaint.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Susan Ewins  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1941310