K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited turned down his motorcycle
insurance claim for damage  to his motorbike.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 September 2019.  In summary, I was 
minded to uphold  Mr Ms complaint and direct  MCE to deal with his claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. 
I wasnt satisfied that MCE had proven adequately  or at all that there  was a breach of 
security condition and/or policy exclusion that was material to the circumstances of the loss. 
I also proposed adding interest to the settlement amount  at 8% simple per year,  from the 
date of theft to the date of settlement.
In response to this, Mr M reiterated that MCE had previously committed to a re-inspection of 
his motorbike, along with deciding against  contacting the engineer who conducted the first 
inspection  despite Mr M telling MCE that this would clarify  the damage  sustained.  
Finally, Mr M pointed  out that there  was a third security measure, in the form of an alarm that 
was activated  on the bike when it was stolen. So, in effect, there were three methods in 
place to keep  the bike secure. 
MCE accepted  the proposals set out in my decision and did not provide any further  evidence  
for consideration. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments and, having done so, I find that they indeed form 
part of the reason why I intend  to direct MCE to deal with the claim.  I therefore dont find it 
necessary to add to what Ive set out in my provisional decision.  
As no further  arguments have been made other than those mentioned above  and given 
that neither of the parties  has submitted any further  evidence for consideration  I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN16007072my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and before, my final decision is to uphold the complaint and 
direct MCE  Insurance  Company Limited  to:
-deal with Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining  policy  terms and conditions;  and
-add interest to the settlement amount  at 8% simple per year, from the date of 
theft to the date of settlement (less  any tax properly deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1600707