K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited has unfairly held him responsible 
for causing an accident under his motor policy.
background
Mr T was just pulling out of his car parking space in July 2018, when he said another  driver 
drove at speed  hitting  him and then hitting another car on the other side of the road. Mr T 
believed the other driver was responsible for causing the accident. 
CIS was of the view that Mr T was responsible, so it settled the other drivers claim. Mr T 
strongly disagreed  so he complained. CIS wouldnt change its stance, so Mr T brought  his 
complaint to us.
The adjudicator didnt think CIS had done anything wrong. Mr T disagreed so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
As the adjudicator explained,  this service doesnt  decide who was responsible for causing  an 
accident, as thats  the role of the courts. We do however look to see if the insurers, CIS 
here, decision on whose  fault it thought it was, was reasonable and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mr Ts policy like almost every other motor policy has a clause, which permits it to take over 
and deal with every claim as it thinks fit. This is because its responsible for both the costs  of 
the claim and indeed any legal fees in such circumstances. Furthermore, it deals with claims 
every day to include cases that go to court and its therefore far more  knowledgeable  than 
most policyholders  about such things. Also, like every other policyholder, Mr T agreed to this 
term when he took out this policy.
Here both Mr T and the other driver believed the other was fault. There  was one witness, 
who thought it was Mr Ts fault as he pulled into the path of the other driver from his parking 
space. Mr T believed  the other driver  was speeding.  However, the person pulling out of a 
parking space does  have  the higher duty of care to ensure  the road was clear  before doing 
so, rather than the person simply driving  down  the road. And whilst Mr T believes the other  
driver was speeding, theres no evidence of that. 
Despite this, CIS went as far as to tell the other drivers insurers  initially  that it considered 
their insured  was responsible for causing the accident instead of Mr T. This shows  me that 
CIS was protecting Mr Ts interests. 
However, based on the damage to both cars,  the witness evidence  and the photographs  
produced by all parties, CIS ultimately  decided it wouldnt be successful if it had to defend  
this case in court and therefore it agreed Mr T was responsible and it settled the other 
drivers claim.
Ref: DRN17905692Mr T did say there was another witness, but that evidence has never  been  produced.  
On this basis and most  especially because CIS did initially push the other  drivers  insurers to 
admit liability, I dont  think CIS did anything wrong here. Its fully entitled under the terms and 
conditions of the policy to make  this decision and I think it came to this decision reasonably  
based on the evidence before it.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1790569