K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained it took too long for The Co-operative Bank Plc to credit  a cheque to his 
bank account  after paying it in at a Post Office. He was also unhappy with the process he 
had to go through when paying  the cheque in at the Post Office. 
background
In January 2019 Mr L went into a Post Office to pay in a cheque.  The cheque wasnt  credited 
to his Co-op bank  account until four working  days later.  Mr L complained to Co-op and said 
information on its website  said a cheque should be credited to an account within  two working 
days. Co-op said the two working days only applied when a customer deposits a cheque at 
one of its own branches, not when a cheque is paid in via the Post Office. It said its website 
provided clear information and the correct timescales for paying in cheques  at the Post 
Office. It also said that while a debit card would be acceptable when paying  in a cheque  at a 
branch of Co-op, a paying in slip should  be used when paying in a cheque at the Post Office. 
Mr L wasnt happy and complained to this service. Our investigator said that Co-op hadnt 
acted unfairly when it had asked  its customers  to use a paying in slip when paying in a 
cheque at a Post Office. She said, in any event, the cheque had been paid into his account 
within the timescales set out in its terms and conditions.
   
Mr L wasnt happy with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that Co-op dont need to do any more. Let me explain  why.
Mr L wasnt happy with the time it took for his cheque to credit his account as he believed it 
would only take two working  days  and it took four working days  for his cheque to be credited.  
The terms and conditions  for the type of account Mr L has with Co-op sets out how long it 
should take for payments  to reach  an account. It is more clearly  set out on Co-ops website. 
Both state  that cheques will be cleared and credited to an account within two business days 
of receipt. However, if a cheque is paid in to a Post Office, its customers should expect to 
see the cheque  cleared  and credited to their account within  four business days. As Mr Ls 
cheque was credited  to his account within four business days, I dont think Co-op has acted  
unreasonably here as its done what it said it would do.
Mr L said that he didnt  use a paying in slip when  paying  the cheque  in at the Post Office and 
thinks its unfair that he needs  to use one when he only needs  to use his debit card when 
paying in a cheque at a branch  of Co-op.  I dont  think  its unreasonable for a bank to adopt a 
slightly different process when cheques are paid in via another business, such as the Post 
Office, rather than one of its own branches. Co-ops  website  says that its customers  will 
need a paying in slip when paying  in a cheque at a Post Office and notes that this is to avoid 
unnecessary delays in processing the cheque. 
Mr L said that he didnt  have a paying in slip but he could have asked for one by contacting 
Co-op by email, phone  or by requesting one in person. In any event, his cheque  was 
Ref: DRN18875812credited to his account within four working days so he wasnt disadvantaged  by not using  a 
paying in slip on this occasion. 
In light of the above, I dont think Co-op  have  acted unfairly and I dont think  it needs to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1887581