K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the quality of a car he leased using a hire agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). He says hes been paying for a car he couldnt use 
and thinks VWFS should have taken  the car back and cancelled his agreement.
background
In December 2016 Mr G leased a car using finance provided by VWFS. In April 2018  he 
contacted VWFS to say that hed had some minor problems with the car almost  since hed 
had it  but that it had been drivable. He said that now, whenever he left the car standing  for 
a few days, the brakes would seize up. A roadside  assistance company had come out in 
March 2018 and got the car moving, but he couldnt  now move it as the same  problem had 
occurred again  whilst  the car had been  left in an underground carpark.  He also said hed 
been talking to a local VW dealership  but it wasnt interested in helping him.
VWFS asked  Mr G to get the car to another dealership and gave him a choice of where he 
could take it. About  a month  later Mr G contacted  VWFS and asked how he should get the 
car to the dealership as it wouldnt  move, and VWFS suggested  he use a roadside 
assistance firm to get the car moving  (as hed done before).
Some weeks later (in late June)  the car still hadnt been delivered to a dealership, and 
VWFS said it couldnt hold Mr Gs complaint open  as they hadnt been able to look at what 
was wrong. Mr G agreed to contact  the roadside assistance company and arrange  for 
recovery to the dealership. About  three weeks later Mr G still hadnt  been able to arrange  
this. VWFS  said (in summary) that if Mr G got the car going by calling roadside  assist it 
would allow him to return the car and end his agreement without paying an early termination 
amount of just under  £550.
A couple of weeks later Mr G asked  how he was supposed to return the car when it wasnt 
moveable and again  VWFS  suggested he used a roadside assistance company which would 
either fix it so he could take it to a dealership or  if it couldnt be fixed   would recover  the 
car and move it to the nearest VW garage.
A few days  later Mr G complained to this service  about what had happened.  The car 
remained in the underground carpark.
Our investigator tried to help Mr G with the logistics of getting the car to the nearest garage 
and after some little while it was returned  to VW. An independent inspection of the problem 
was carried out. By this time Mr Gs lease was at an end and the car was returned in 
accordance with that.
Our investigator then when on to look at Mr Gs complaint. She said that although  she didnt 
doubt there was a problem with the car, and that Mr G was very busy,  he hadnt helped  by 
not making an attempt to get the car back to a VW garage, which meant it couldnt be 
inspected. So VWFS couldnt  work  out whether  there was an inherent fault  nor help Mr G 
further. So she didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G is unhappy about this. He feels hes been  paying for a car he couldnt drive  and he 
should have been able to terminate the agreement  at no charge. And he says hes out of 
pocket because he had to insure the car too.
Ref: DRN15308542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has returned the car and ended the lease  agreement. Its for me to decide if he should  
be compensated for the fact that he had a car that he couldnt use for about eight months  
(from mid April to mid December). 
When a customer complains about  a faulty  car, the normal remedy for VWFS is to get the 
car inspected and ascertain whether the fault is one its responsible for (so thats an inherent 
fault rather than,  say, worn tyres which would be normal  wear  and tear).
If there is a fault Id expect VWFS to arrange  a repair,  and if that failed to consider allowing 
Mr G to return the car without any financial penalty.
All of this, however, depends upon the car getting to an appropriate garage. VWFS 
explained how Mr G could  do that  essentially a roadside assistance company would free 
the stuck brakes  and Mr G could  then drive it to the garage. From the records Ive seen it 
appears that Mr G didnt want to spend  the time necessary to do this  so the car remained  
immobile in an underground garage for several months.
I do understand that Mr G thinks hed spent enough time trying to sort the car out  but he 
only contacted  VWFS in April 2018,  so I dont think he could expect it to do anything about 
the problem before then. VWFSs  notes show that it explained several times over the next 
couple of months  what Mr G needed to do if he wanted VWFS to progress his complaint.
It seems  that it was only when Mr Gs lease neared  its expiry that he engaged actively in 
trying to sort things out. And I agree there  were some problems with getting the car moved 
from an underground  carpark,  which meant he had to do more than he might have otherwise 
had to do. But he left the car in this particular carpark,  so I dont think thats something 
VWFS is responsible for.
When the car was eventually inspected the report was inconclusive.  It said that yes, the 
brakes had seized up  but that dismantling them to find out why might destroy any 
evidence. And the report also noted corrosion on the brake discs  but said that was 
associated with the car being immobile for so long.
I think Mr G could have arranged for the car to be moved within a couple of days  of him 
contacting VWFS at no cost to himself other than some of his time. If that had happened 
VWFS could  have either repaired  it or allowed him to return the car if a repair  wasnt  
possible. By choosing  not to do that Mr G effectively  prevented  VWFS from helping him until 
much later.
Ive thought about whether VWFS  should  have done  more than it did. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to suggest  a way for Mr G to get the car to a garage and wait for him to 
do that. And it did remind him about  this several  times. It also offered to waive  the early 
termination payment  if Mr G wanted to return the car  all he had to do was get roadside 
assistance to either free the brakes  so he could drive it to a garage or if that wasnt possible 
recover it for him. I think  VWFS treated Mr G fairly, and Im not going  to ask it to do more  
than it has.
Ref: DRN15308543my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1530854