K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps representative complained about  the advice provided by Anthony Feeney Financial 
Services to transfer his personal pension to a new self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). 
This was with the intention to invest into a high risk unregulated investment, Store  Pods. 
background
Mr Ps representative said he was not a sophisticated investor and had never invested in an 
unregulated investment scheme. A fact find document was completed with Mr P. It said Mr P 
was:
a self-employed  contractor earning about £35,000 per year.
held an existing personal pension but had no current  pension provision
had limited knowledge of investments but had a pension and understood the basics.
In the notes it was recorded that Mr P had said: I understand  that for my pension  to perform 
as I need it to. I need to be more adventurous with my investments i.e. alternative 
investments.
In addition: I have  no experience in investment markets  so the prospect of fixed  returns  is 
appealing.
Mr Ps personal pension was invested in with-profit funds and had a transfer value of around 
£24,000. Anthony Feeney  recommended switching the personal pension plan to a SIPP.  The 
adviser noted:
You have  sought  my advice regarding the setting up of a SIPP  by transferring the funds  of 
the pension schemes  listed  above  with the intention  of Investing in commercial  Property,  
specifically Self First Storage  Pods. You have not sought my advice regarding  the suitability 
of this investment  and have stated that you are an experienced investor  and as such  
understand the additional risks associated  with such an investment.
As of 31 March 2014, Mr Ps newly arranged SIPP had a value of about  £23,000. Of which
just over £14,000 was invested in Store Pods  and about £9,000 remained in the scheme 
bank account.  On 14 April 2014,  after the SIPP was arranged, Anthony Feeney  
recommended a further investment. Mr Ps adviser  said they were not currently  making a 
complaint in respect of that investment  so I have not considered it directly.
Mr Ps representative said the Store  Pods  investment  was worthless  or of nominal value. 
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme had determined the units were  worthless  and 
attempts by other investors  to sell had found  no buyer save  for one auction sale that yielded 
£1.
Anthony Feeney didnt respond  to the complaint  made by Mr Ps representative.  
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ps complaint and said Anthony Feeney hadnt acted fairly. He 
said that in January 2013 the Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued an alert which  
referred to Store  Pods and advising on transfers  with a view to investing in unregulated 
products. The FSA alert made  clear  the proposed investment needed  to be assessed when 
recommending a pension switch. But the Anthony Feeney report said Mr P hadnt  sought 
advice on the suitability of the proposed  investment.  
Ref: DRN10279042Mr P was 15 years away from retirement and the only reason to switch was to access other 
investments. So the suitability  of the advice rested  on the suitability of the intended 
investment. In fact more  than half of Mr Ps pension was invested in an unregulated property 
investment which  was too high risk. It was illiquid and there was no guarantee of long term 
income but it carried costs  and management fees.  In the long term after the guarantee 
period there was considerable risk.
He didnt agree that Mr P was an adventurous  investor. Mr P was clear he had little 
experience or knowledge.
Anthony Feeney had a duty to act in Mr Ps best interests but it was clear the switch wasnt 
suitable. Overall his existing arrangement was more  suitable  for his long term needs and the 
recommendation shouldve been  to retain his existing plan. The adjudicator thought Mr P 
wouldve accepted  that recommendation.
He suggested  an award that compared  the actual performance of the Store Pods investment 
with that of a benchmark to see if there was a loss. He also awarded £300 for inconvenience  
and upset.
Anthony Feeney didnt reply to the adjudicators decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Anthony Feeney gave advice about  starting  a SIPP. This is a regulated  activity.  The advice 
had to take account of the rules  set by the regulator  whether  or not the underlying 
investment was regulated. Anthony Feeney needed  to ensure that the advice to start the 
SIPP and transfer  his pension was suitable  for Mr P. That would necessarily mean it needed  
to consider the underlying  investment. The regulators alert issued in January 2013  also 
underlined this.
The regulators rules include principles including about the relationship of trust with a client.  
This says that a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. The 
underlying rules further say that the firm mustnt make a recommendation,
 
unless the recommendation or transaction is suitable for the private customer  having  regard 
to the facts disclosed by him and other relevant facts about the customer of which  the firm is 
or reasonably should be, aware.
It is clear Anthony Feeney  knew Mr P was intending  to invest in Store  Pods. I say that 
because the papers produced by it state that Mr P hadnt sought advice on the proposed 
investment and warned about  some  of the risks associated with it.
Its clear Mr P has no savings and limited capacity  to put his pension at risk. Mr P has had a 
recent business loss and he says his current business relies  on one customer so is 
vulnerable. He doesnt have any current pension provision or any other savings. While Mr P 
clearly wants to have the best possible pension his capacity to suffer  loss in an investment  is 
extremely limited.
Ref: DRN10279043I am of the view that the investment in Store Pods  was a high risk investment, potentially  
illiquid and unsuitable for Mr P. Anthony Feeney was aware of that and refer to some risks in 
their papers.  They state there is no guarantee of rental income longer term but the running 
costs still needed  to be paid. It referred  to the illiquidity of the investment  and said that 
although there was a buy back  guarantee there  was little to back  it up. Based on these 
comments it shouldve been clear the investment wasnt suitable for Mr P.
I think Mr P thought it would improve his pension. I say that because  in the fact find he 
specifically referred to it and said hed selected  it because it was UK based  and offered fixed 
returns. While its clear  he wants  to achieve positive growth  for his retirement this does not 
mean that he is an adventurous investor and clearly could not afford to lose his investment. 
In the fact find, while Mr P selected the option of an adventurous investor  he added a hand 
written note that he had no experience  in investment markets so the prospect of fixed 
returns is appealing.
Even if Mr P fully understood the risks of transferring  to a SIPP  and making such an 
investment, which  seems unlikely, I dont  think it could be said to be suitable for him having 
regard to his level of financial knowledge  and experience and his personal financial 
circumstances. That was the only investment considered at the time the advice was given. 
Further advice about an additional investment wasnt given until April 2014 by which  time the 
SIPP was already established.
Even though  Anthony Feeney says it didnt advise on the Store Pods investment, the 
regulator guidance is clear that it shouldve. Had it done so it shouldve been clear  that the 
extra charges associated with a SIPP and the Store  Pods investment are not justified  based  
on what was proposed at the time,  and he shouldve been advised  not to invest  in Store  
Pods. If that advice had been given I am satisfied that Mr P would not have  transferred  his 
existing pension. 
To compensate Mr P fairly  Anthony  Feeney  should:-
First compare the performance of Mr Ps investment in Store Pods with that of the 
benchmark shown  below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no compensation 
is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Anthony  Feeney should pay it into Mr Ps pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Anthony Feeneys payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt  pay the
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Anthony  Feeney are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ps pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Ref: DRN10279044For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. It 
seems very possible that Mr P might not pay any income tax in retirement  as his income is 
likely to be any state pension and an amount drawn from his pension.  Given  the current 
income tax annual allowance is £12,500  it seems unlikely that his annual retirement income 
would exceed  the annual  allowance at his retirement.
In addition, Anthony Feeney should  pay Mr P £300 for the inconvenience and upset caused 
by arranging an unsuitable pension plan and investment.  
It should also provide  the details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Anthony  Feeney considers that Mr P is 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell 
Mr P how much it has taken off. It should  also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
("start date" )to
("end date" )additional 
interest
SIPP still existsA viva personal  
pension  
(based  on 
pre transfer  
investments  
in )date of 
transfer  
to the 
SIPPdate of 
settlement 
being the 
date of 
this 
decision8% simple a 
year from date 
of my decision 
to date of 
payment.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the Store Pod investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. 
Anthony Feeney should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial 
value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance paid as above.  If Anthony Feeney are unable  to purchase the 
investment the actual  value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose  of calculation. 
Anthony Feeney may wish to require that Mr P provides an undertaking to pay 
Anthony Feeney any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Anthony Feeney  will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the Store Pods investment would have  been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN10279045Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those  payments and deduct that figure  at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP only exists because of the Store Pod investment. In order  for the SIPP  to be 
closed and further SIPP fees and charges  prevented,  this investment and his other 
investment needs  to be removed. But if Anthony Feeney Financial Services cant buy the 
Store Pods investment Mr P is faced  with future  SIPP fees and charges. I think it is fair to 
assume five years of future SIPP fees.  So, if Anthony Feeney Financial Services cant  buy 
the investment,  it should pay an amount equal  to five years of SIPP  fees, charges and 
expenses based  on the current tariff. This is in addition  to the compensation calculated using 
a nil value for the investment.
further information
Some examples of how the calculation should be carried out are available  on our website 
under Publications / Online Technical Resource / Investment / Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  that Anthony Feeney Financial Services must:-
1.Calculate whether  Mr P has suffered a loss as set out above. If there is a loss 
compensation should be paid as set out above.
2.Pay Mr P £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Anthony Feeney Financial Services must pay the total compensation within 28 days  of the 
date on which Mr P accepts my final decision. 
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from any interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr P can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr P should  refer back to Anthony Feeney Financial  Services  if he is unsure of the approach  
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs  if they want to know  
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Ref: DRN10279046Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1027904