K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about the level of fees Eldon Insurance Services Ltd charged  him 
when he cancelled his motor insurance policy.
background
Eldon arranged a motor  insurance policy for Mr A, which  he paid for in monthly instalments. 
Three months later Mr A cancelled  the policy. Eldon told him he still owed around £205.  Mr A 
didn't think  that was fair and brought  his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  didn't think  Eldon 
had done anything wrong. Mr A didn't agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. 
Given that Mr A had met all his monthly  instalment payments  I can understand why he was 
surprised to be facing  such a large  bill after he cancelled his policy.  But that doesn't  mean  
that Eldon  has done anything wrong.
Eldon is an insurance  broker.  That means  it arranges and administers policies but it doesn't 
actually provide the cover or apply a charge for the time on risk. That is done by the insurer  
which is a separate  business. And Eldon also arranged for a credit provider to loan Mr A the 
full cost of the premium,  which  it paid to the insurer. Mr A then repaid that amount in monthly 
instalments. The credit  provider is also a separate business to Eldon.
It might help if I explain that insurance policies of the sort that Mr A had are generally 
charged on an annual  basis. That is insurers  and brokers will charge  a consumer at the 
outset for the full costs of the policy for the year. Brokers like Eldon may arrange  for a credit  
provider to allow the consumer to pay that total yearly sum in instalments. That is the 
consumer repays the amounts they owe, most  often  on a monthly  basis, by direct  debit. And 
that charge will be made up of the insurance  cover, interest on the loan and any broker  fees.
When a consumer cancels a policy its usual for the insurer to charge for the time on risk. 
That is the insurer will calculate how many  days it's provided the insurance  cover for and 
charge the consumer for each day of that cover. And if premiums are still owing the insurer  
will generally ask the broker  to collect any sums owed.
Similarly, on cancellation its usual  for a broker  like Eldon  to make sure that the policyholder 
has paid it all its charges. This will include charges for things like arranging the policy and 
the finance, and a cancellation charge. And it will add that amount to any cost for the time on 
cover the insurer has asked it to collect. If the consumer has already paid more than the 
sums owed  they will get a refund.  If that amount is less than the consumer  owes then the 
broker will charge that balance to the consumer.
In this case the insurer charged  Mr A around £147 for his time on risk. And the credit 
provider charged  Mr A around £63 for interest on the finance. To that Eldon charged  Mr A a 
total of around  £213 for all of its fees, including arrangement and cancellation charges. From 
that it deducted the payments Mr A had made for his monthly instalments. Having done so it 
calculated that Mr A still owed around £205.
Ref: DRN18566362Mr A said he doesn't think Eldon merits the amount its charged. But I don't think  its fees are 
unreasonable. And Ive seen that it made  Mr A aware of its cancellation charges before he 
took out his policy and again when it sent him its terms  of business. So given  that it made 
Mr A aware of those  charges before he bought the policy,  I think it was reasonable that it 
applied those charges when Mr A cancelled the policy.  It follows that I don't think  its treated 
him unfairly.
For completeness Ill add that Eldon  isn't responsible  for the charges that the insurer  or the 
credit provider applied.  And if Mr A believes those are unfair he will need  to complain to 
those businesses directly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1856636