K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs S say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Its not surprising,  given how long ago the sale took place, that not all of the information  
from the times still available. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest NatWest  failed  to make it 
clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have  to take out the PPI or that they didnt choose to take 
it out  although I can understand if they cant remember much about  this now.
Mr and Mrs S say NatWest recommended the PPI to them. If it did, NatWest had to 
check that the PPI was right for them   and based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example Mr S, as the person insured, 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to, or limits on, the PPI cover and they seemed 
to have had a need for the cover, despite  Mr S employment benefits and their savings.  
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. But theres nothing to show they didnt choose to take it out  so 
they might have wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover.  
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr and Mrs S have said, including that it doesnt seem 
fair to give the benefit of the doubt  in this case to NatWest. But, taking everything into 
account and in the light of the available evidence,  I cant reasonably say that the PPI was 
mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their policy  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWests told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs S policy  was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs S commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN16270552Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1627055