K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains about First Rate Exchange Services Ltd decision to review his account, and 
subsequently close it. He says their actions have caused anxiety and reputational damage 
and wants compensation.
background 
Mr N opened an account underwritten by First Rate Exchange in September  2017. 
In December 2017, First Rate  Exchange carried  out a review on Mr Ns account  and asked  
him for additional  identification. Mr N provided this and contacted First Rate Exchange  on a 
number of occasions for an update.
Following their review, First Rate Exchange  decided  to end their relationship with Mr N. They  
sent him the balance of the account  by cheque  in March 2018.
Mr N says the review and lack of updates  caused  him anxiety, and reputational damage. 
And he says hes lost out on trading  with other  companies due to the block  on the account.
While our investigator was reviewing Mr Ns complaint, First Rate  Exchange  offered £100  
compensation to recognise the delays  caused  in releasing the money to Mr N.
The investigator thought First Rate Exchange was entitled to review Mr Ns account, and 
subsequently close it in line with the terms and conditions of the account. But she did 
recognise there were  delays in First Rate Exchange  giving Mr N his money back. She 
thought £100 was a fair amount of compensation for the delays caused. And the investigator 
said she couldnt fairly hold First Rate Exchange responsible for the trading Mr N had lost 
out on with other companies.
Mr N didnt accept the investigators view. He said the trading company  would  only use the 
First Rate Exchange account and they couldnt because of the block.  And he wanted 
compensation of £5,000.
As an agreement hasnt been  reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I understand this will disappoint Mr N so Ive 
explained my reasons  further below.
account review
I recognise how worrying and frustrating it must have been for Mr N to realise  he couldnt 
use his account.  But First Rate Exchange cant always guarantee that funds in an account 
are readily available.
However, Ive considered  First Rate Exchanges actions when reviewing, and blocking, 
Mr Ns account. Im satisfied they acted  in line with their legal and regulatory obligations. I 
Ref: DRN12173442appreciate they didnt  tell Mr N about  the block  before it happened,  but they arent obliged to. 
So I cant reasonably  say they did something  wrong.
account closure
First Rate Exchange is entitled to close an account  with Mr N just as Mr N may close  his 
account with them. But before First Rate Exchange closes an account, they must do so in a 
way, which  complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive considered the terms and conditions which apply for Mr Ns account. And in particular,  
the term First Rate Exchange says they relied  on. Section 15.1.5 explains that an account 
can be closed immediately if the account holder (in this case, Mr N) has seriously or 
persistently breached the agreement. From what Ive seen I think it is clear Mr N wasnt 
using the account in line with what the pre-paid card was originally intended for. And 
therefore I think their decision to close the account is fair.
delays caused
I do consider First Rate Exchange caused  unnecessary delays when releasing the account 
balance back to Mr N. From  what Ive seen I consider they should  have  released  the money 
back to him no later than the end of January 2018. However, they didnt  do so until March 
2018. I appreciate  the inconvenience this must have caused  Mr N  and Ive taken into 
account what hes said about the anxiety  it caused him. Taking this into account, I do 
consider £100  compensation  to be reasonable in the circumstances. I think  it fairly 
recognises the delays  and inconvenience caused  to Mr N.
Mr Ns other  financial losses
Mr N said he lost out on trading with other  companies due to the block  First Rate  Exchange 
applied on his account. Im sorry to hear Mr N wasnt able to use this account in the way he 
would have liked to during  the time First Rate Exchange  carried  out their review. But, 
ultimately First Rate Exchange were entitled to review Mr Ns account  and close  it. So I cant  
fairly say they did something wrong in this respect.
overall
Overall, I do recognise how worrying this situation would  have been for Mr N. But based on 
everything Ive seen, Im satisfied First Rate Exchange did everything  they were  meant  to do 
and followed  the terms and conditions of the account. I do recognise there were delays but I 
find £100 compensation to be reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and require 
First Rate Exchange Services Ltd to pay Mr N £100  compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Ref: DRN12173443Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1217344