K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy Nationwide Building  Society reduced the overdraft limit on his current 
account, applied  a default to his credit file and with the way its dealt with him.
 
background
Nationwide wrote to Mr A in January 2018  saying it would be reducing his overdraft  limit in 
mid-February. It also emphasised he should  bring  his account balance below this new limit. 
But he didnt  do so and Nationwide sent more communications advising him he had an 
unarranged overdraft and asking him to pay money  in to bring it within the new overdraft 
limit. Despite numerous letters being sent it got no response. By May 2018 the overdraft  had 
been in an unarranged overdrawn  position  for three months and a default  letter  was sent.  It 
made clear if Mr A didnt  pay the balance a default would be registered  on his credit file. A 
default was later recorded.  
Mr A says he didnt receive  the letters from Nationwide and wasnt aware of the reduction in 
his overdraft limit or the default.  Hes unhappy with Nationwides service and that it 
registered a default on his credit  file. He wants the default removed.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Nationwide was within its rights  to change the overdraft limit and it reasonably  made 
Mr A aware of this and gave him enough time to reduce the balance.
Nationwide made numerous attempts to contact Mr A about  the overdraft, asking him 
to pay in money and advising about the entry of a default on his credit  file. All letters 
were sent to his correct address.  Its unfortunate if Mr A didnt receive them  but thats 
not Nationwides fault. As Mr A had an unarranged overdraft for three  months it acted 
reasonably applying the default notice at the end of May 2018.  
After Mr A subsequently contacted Nationwide it agreed as a gesture of goodwill to 
refund £145 of charges applied  to his account after his overdraft limit was reduced. 
Thats fair. 
In July 2018 the account received a payment which cleared the arrears and brought 
the account back into credit. This left it in an unusual position  and Mr A was given 
conflicting advice  about what would happen  and whether the default  would  be 
registered. He also continued using the account while  the default was being 
registered.  
Nationwide has agreed its service wasnt good  enough and offered Mr A £150 
compensation. That seems reasonable. It also belatedly said the account isnt 
suitable for use and encouraged Mr A to have any credits  paid into another  account. 
Its also said it will close the account.  Thats reasonable.
Mr A would like the default removed from his credit file. But as Nationwide has a duty 
to report accurate information about  the account  he cant now recommend it should 
be required to remove the default.
Mr A remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
Ref: DRN14699972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Nationwide was entitled to reduce Mr As overdraft  limit as it did. It also gave him reasonable 
notice of this change and time to pay in money to reduce  the balance  owed. It also explained 
what would  happen  if he didnt reduce his overdraft to within the new limit. In addition  after 
the new limit was effective  it told him his overdraft was now unarranged and again  asked  him 
to pay in some money failing which a default  would  be entered.
Mr A says he didnt receive  these  letters and was unaware of the change  to his overdraft 
limit. But Nationwide  sent these letters to Mr As correct  address.  Its unfortunate if he didnt 
receive them but that isnt something  I can reasonably  hold Nationwide  responsible  for. 
Once the overdraft  had been unarranged for three months Nationwide was also entitled to 
enter the default  on Mr As credit file. It has an obligation  to record  correct  information about 
the way the account is operated and it was clearly in default when the registration process 
was started and ongoing. So, I dont  think I can fairly  or reasonably  now require Nationwide  
to remove the default  from Mr As credit file as he would like.
Even so Nationwide couldve dealt with Mr A better  in and after July 2018.  It didnt give him 
clear information on what  would happen  to the account after a payment was made into it 
clearing the arrears or what would happen  about  the ongoing default registration.  Since  then 
it has advised him about using another account and closed  the account.  Thats  reasonable.
Nationwide has accepted its service wasnt good  enough and offered to pay Mr A £150 for 
this. I also note Nationwide has previously also refunded £145 of charges to the account  as 
a goodwill gesture. Overall I think thats fair.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably ask Nationwide to pay or do anything more, including removing  the 
default from Mr As credit  file. I simply leave it to Mr A to decide, if he hasnt already done so, 
if he wishes to accept  Nationwides  offer of £150 compensation. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1469997