K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2008 Miss W took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage during a branch 
meeting.
At the time of the sale Miss W was employed as a teacher. She told us she was entitled to 
full sick pay for 12 months and she had savings and /or insurance of an amount equal to 12 
months salary. Miss W also said she was in good health at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accidental  death,  disability and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay an amount equal to Miss Ws monthly mortgage 
payment  just under  £500 - in the event of a successful  claim. And it would do so for up to 
12 months. At the outset the policy cost a little less than £21 a month.
In summary  Miss W and her representative have said the complaint is about the following:
PPI wasnt needed  because Miss W was entitled to sick pay, which wouldve covered 
her for at least 12 months.
the policy excluded  or limited claims for back pain and stress, which  are some of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover and if NatWest had explained  this Miss W wouldnt have taken the policy  out.
PPI was sold as part of a package with the mortgage.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld  both parties have seen 
and provided their responses  to the adjudicators opinion. Miss W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and her representative broadly repeated the points above.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website. And while I dont intend to set this all out in my 
decision, Ive taken into account  whats relevant here in deciding this complaint.
key questions  
In summary  and taking  the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key 
questions I need  to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all 
circumstances of this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Miss W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN16676432-Whether NatWest gave Miss W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss W, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss W suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss W and 
NatWest, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss W know she had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear to Miss W that the PPI policy  was optional. Miss W says PPI 
was just included  as part of the package,  so Ive considered this carefully.
This was a sale by meeting. NatWest has provided copies of the paperwork completed at the 
time including  the mortgage application,  PPI direct  debit, customer  declaration and the 
mortgage offer letter.
Looking at the mortgage application first  I can see here there was a separate section 
headed Your protection where its recorded  that Miss W wanted to apply for PPI and the 
amount of benefit  is written. Underneath there  was the option to initial  a box to say PPI 
wasnt required  this section is blank.
Miss W signed  a separate direct debit  mandate titled Mortgage Payment Protection 
Insurance and a Giving your agreement form which appears  to have been used to confirm  
Miss Ws choices  about insurances  there  are crosses  placed in the relevant boxes 
including one for PPI.
Finally Miss Ws mortgage offer letter also made  reference to PPI  it described it here as 
being optional  insurance that didnt have to be taken out through  NatWest  or at all.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  than not that Miss W understood the 
policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did NatWest provide  advice?
Both NatWest and Miss W say advice wasnt provided during the sale. And looking at what  
happened, I dont think NatWest provided  advice.
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Miss W. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Miss W to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN16676433the information
NatWest has provided us with a copy of the policy terms and conditions  it says Miss W 
wouldve received  after the meeting and which I accept on a balance of probabilities applied 
to policies like Miss W. 
Ive already said this was a sale by meeting. And given  the context of that meeting and how 
the mortgage application described things, I think its likely  that Miss W wouldve had a broad 
understanding of the policy  that it covered  her mortgage payments for life, disability and 
unemployment. While its not clear from the evidence at which  point Miss W was told the 
cost of the policy  it was set out in the mortgage offer letter  she wouldve received after the 
mortgage was approved   I think she wouldve understood there  was a separate cost 
involved because she signed a separate direct debit mandate.
But it was NatWests responsibility to draw  to Miss Ws attention the important information   
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations, which might be relevant to her decision.
Im not persuaded based on the evidence provided  that NatWest  did enough to do this. For 
example I cant see that it adequately drew Miss Ws attention  to the significant  exclusions 
and limitations of cover.
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Miss W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Miss W? To what extent did Miss W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that NatWest  didnt likely  do all it should  have  done when it sold this policy  to 
Miss W. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Miss W suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Miss W would, more  likely  than not have still taken out the policy  had NatWest  done things 
properly. 
Miss W says she wouldnt have taken it out.
This was a non-advised sale, so Miss W had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss W likely chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Miss W 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Miss W has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Ive said that I think Miss W wouldve been  told something  about  it 
and she signed  a direct  debit  mandate.  The cost was clearly set out in the mortgage offer 
letter and this was before the policy went live  so if the cost was at odds with Miss Ws 
expectations I wouldve  expected her to have queried this with NatWest at this point.
Ref: DRN16676434Miss W reasonably understood the benefit  the policy was described as mortgage payment 
protector and the amount of the benefit was written  on the mortgage application.
Miss Ws representative has made  much of the fact that the policy  excluded  or limited claims 
for what they describe as being some of the most  common  conditions  people are off work  
namely back pain and stress related  conditions.  But like the adjudicator pointed out to 
Miss W, the policy did not exclude claims for these  things or place greater evidential  
requirements on making a claim for these things  than for any other disability claim. Its also 
the case that the policy did not exclude or limit in any way claims for existing medical 
conditions.
So while Miss W didnt know some things,  the ultimate position in the event of a successful  
claim was not dissimilar  to what shed reasonably have  thought  from the information she 
likely based  her decision to take out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss W thought  shed bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
To make a successful  disability claim Miss W would have to show  she couldnt  carry 
out her normal work or a similar occupation that she could reasonably perform or 
become qualified to perform based  on her education and training.
But Miss W was a permanent employee.  I think its unlikely she wouldve expected to make  a 
disability claim on the policy  without first providing  some evidence to support that claim.  And 
I think its reasonable to assume that if Miss W couldnt perform the duties of her normal 
work shed  have thought it unlikely that shed be able to perform similar work. So I dont think 
these things wouldve  particularly mattered to Miss W.
Overall I think  the evidence about Miss Ws circumstances show  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her  she was eligible for its benefits, she wasnt caught by the 
significant exclusions and it provided  cover that I think wouldve proved useful to her should 
the insured risks have become a reality.
Miss W says she wouldve been  entitled to at least 12 months  full sick pay and so she didnt 
need the cover. 
Given Miss Ws occupation  I think its likely  she was entitled to generous sick pay. But Im 
not persuaded it was at the level Miss W says. Full sick pay for a period 12 months is in my 
view unusual   I think it was more  likely  12 months  in total but split six months  at full pay and 
six months at half pay.
But in any event the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement  and for a 
period of up to 12 months at a time. This wouldve allowed Miss W to use any existing  
means to meet  other ongoing household  and fixed expenditure  and help to relieve financial 
pressure at what would likely be a difficult time.  So, given the policy  was protecting her main  
asset I think Miss W still had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Notwithstanding the above, Miss W was in a position to understand her existing means  at 
the time of the sale and as I found above  she chose  to take out PPI.  
Ref: DRN16676435And because Ive also found  that she likely had a broad understanding  of the cost and 
understood the benefit of the policy at the point she decided  to go ahead  (albeit  I accept she 
might not have been told or understood the 12 month pay out limit) I think  she was in a 
reasonable position to weigh up the cost and benefit  proposition offered and understand if it 
worked for her  particularly given the policy didnt operate fundamentally differently from 
what I think she expected  based on the information she was given at the time. 
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit at a 
difficult time. And in those  circumstances I consider it more likely than not that shed have 
taken out the policy  in any event.   
Because of this Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude NatWest 
should pay Miss W compensation, as that would  put her in a better position than shed have 
been in if everything  had happened as it should  have  done. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1667643