K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  because AXA Insurance  UK Plc hasnt  paid a claim for medical 
expenses under their travel insurance  policy. 
All references to AXA include  the agents  it has appointed to handle  claims. 
Background
Mr and Mrs M hold a travel insurance policy, provided by AXA,  as a benefit of their bank
account.
While on holiday  abroad (which Ill call holiday B), Mrs M required hospital treatment for a
shoulder problem.  She made a claim for the cost of this treatment under her policy with AXA.
AXA said the claim wasnt covered because Mrs M hadnt told it she had a pre-existing
shoulder problem,  and her policy doesnt cover pre-existing medical  conditions.
Unhappy, Mrs M complained to AXA and said shed  previously  made  a successful
cancellation claim under her policy for a different  holiday (which  Ill call holiday A) due to the
same shoulder problem, so AXA should  have known she suffered from this condition.  Mrs M
also said she hadnt been told when making the previous claim that shed need to declare
her shoulder  problem in order  to have cover for the condition going  forward.
AXA considered Mrs Ms complaint and said the claim had been correctly declined.  It said,  if
Mrs M had a complaint  about the information she was given when she made a cancellation
claim for holiday  A, shed  need to take this up with AXA as a separate  matter. However, AXA
acknowledged it could  have communicated more effectively with Mrs M about why her claim
for medical  treatment had been declined, so it paid her £75 compensation.
As Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied,  they brought  their complaint to the attention of our 
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he thought  it would be fair and
reasonable for AXA to pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim. AXA didnt agree, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
Since then,  AXA provided further information  about  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint to our service,  
including recordings of several telephone conversations between  itself and Mrs M.
I made  my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint earlier this month. In it, I 
said:
Im unsure  why AXA told Mr and Mrs M theyd  need  to raise any complaint about the
information they were  given when they made their cancellation claim for holiday A as a
separate matter.  AXA, as the underwriter of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, is both the business
responsible for any information given about  the cancellation claim for holiday A as well as
the business responsible  for declining  Mrs Ms claim for medical expenses during holiday B.
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ms policy say:
To make sure your policy fully covers you for any trip its important that when you
make a travel booking you tell us about any pre-existing medical  conditions  affecting
Ref: DRN15794722the health of the people travelling.
The policy also says:
What is NOT covered:
Any claim as a result of a Pre-Existing  Medical Condition that exists either at the
time You open  theAccount or at the time of booking Your Trip (unless  terms
were agreed  in writing  by Us).
A pre-existing medical condition is defined as a medical condition  for which  any person to be
insured is:
a) currently taking prescribed medication or
b) waiting  to receive or have received  treatment  (including surgery,  tests or
investigations) within  the last 6 months  prior to the opening of this account, or within
6 months prior to booking any trip, whichever is later.
Exclusions such as this are common in most, if not all, travel insurance policies and I think
both the exclusion  and the requirement  to contact AXA to tell it about pre-existing medical
conditions are clearly set out in Mr and Mrs Ms policy documentation.
Its not disputed  that Mrs Ms shoulder  injury happened after holiday A was already booked.
So, the injury  wasnt  a pre-existing one in relation to holiday  A. In order  to decide whether I
think Mrs Ms shoulder injury was a pre-existing medical condition in relation to holiday B,
Ive considered Mrs Ms medical records and the timing of the booking of holiday  B.
Mrs Ms medical records show she was seen at a walk-in centre for sprains and strains on
20 August 2018.  Mrs M had a further  consultation for her shoulder injury on 23 August 2018, 
when she was prescribed medication to help with the pain. During this consultation, Mrs M
said she was worried shed have  to cancel holiday A, a long-haul  holiday which Mrs M was
due to depart for on 2 September 2018. Mrs M was seen in the accident and emergency
department and diagnosed with rotator cuff syndrome on 26 August 2018, and further
medication for shoulder pain was prescribed to her on 28 August 2018.
Mrs M told us holiday B was booked about  7 to 10 days before her and Mr Ms departure on
7 September 2018. This means holiday B was booked on a date between 28 August 2018
and 31 August 2018. So, in the weeks leading up to the booking of holiday B, Mrs M 
underwent investigations into her shoulder  injury and was prescribed medication for the
condition. The medical treatment Mrs M received abroad was related to her shoulder  injury.
This means  Mrs Ms claim arose from a pre-existing medical condition,  which  isnt covered
under the terms  and conditions of her policy with AXA.
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about the information AXA gave to her when she made
a cancellation  claim for holiday  A. Its up to Mr and Mrs M to read their insurance policy  and
to satisfy themselves  that they have  the necessary level of cover.  Its also up to Mr and
Mrs M to ensure they comply with the requirements  of their policy to declare any pre-existing
medical conditions.  But, in any event, Im satisfied AXA did tell Mrs M shed need to declare
her shoulder  problem in order  to be covered  for the condition  on future holidays.
Ive listened to a call between Mrs M and AXA on 20 August 2018, which took place before
holiday B was booked.  Mrs M telephoned AXA to enquire if shed be covered under her
Ref: DRN15794723policy if she had to cancel  holiday A due to her sprained shoulder, which shed seen the
doctor about that morning. During  this telephone  conversation,  AXA explained any
cancellation claim was likely to be covered  because  the shoulder  injury had happened after
Mrs M had booked holiday A. However,  AXA said Mrs M would need to contact it again to
ensure that her medical  conditions  would  be covered for any future trips that were booked.
Im satisfied AXA made this clear  to Mrs M, and that Mrs M understood what AXA told her,
as Mrs M ended the call by confirming shed contact  AXA to complete medical screening if
she booked another holiday.
But Mrs M didnt complete the medical  screening  process before she booked holiday B, so
she doesnt have  cover under her policy for treatment for the medical condition she is
claiming for.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was for an important occasion in their lives and I
appreciate Mrs M is being chased  for payment  of her medical  bills, which will undoubtedly be
stressful for both her and Mr M. However, based on the evidence  Ive seen, I dont currently
think AXA has been unfair or unreasonable in declining Mrs Ms claim.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I dont intend to require AXA to do anything  
further.
Both Mr and Mrs M and AXA have now responded to my provisional decision, but neither 
party had anything  further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs M nor AXA have provided any additional information or evidence 
about this complaint, I see no reason  to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 December  2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1579472