K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as PrePay Solutions,  wont  sort out 
the problem shed had with a prepaid  card that expired after 12 months.  
background
Mrs H had a dispute  with a third party  (who  I will call S). S, through  its agent, sent her either 
a goodwill gesture or compensation  of £150  loaded  onto a prepaid card. However  when 
Mrs H came to use it she found out it had already  expired.  She objects to this as she thinks 
S owes her money. It decided to pay her via the prepaid card and now she cant  use it.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint. Our investigator said the terms of use for the 
card are clear. The expiry date was displayed on the card.  Mrs H didnt use the card in time. 
Our investigator said we had no basis to tell PrePay  Solutions to do anything further.
Mrs H objected to our investigators recommendation. In summary, she said if S had paid her 
cash shed still have  it. The card to her mind  should  be treated like the cash. S should not be 
able to walk away from its obligations  like this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I think it would be helpful for me to explain the role of our service in this complaint. All I can 
look at here is the regulated activity which is the provision of e-money services.  
But the problem  is that isnt really  what Mrs Hs complaint is about. She is saying S owes  her 
money because it did not provide the service it is contracted to provide to her. Because  of 
this it gave her compensation in the form of a prepaid card.  Now she can no longer use that 
card because she took too long to use it. She does not think  this is fair because she 
assumed the card was valid for at least 24 months.  Also she thinks  the card should really be 
like cash and have no expiry date.  Mrs H may or may not have a valid complaint against S. I 
cant look at that. I have no power to do this. 
All I am looking at here is has PrePay  Solutions acted unfairly in the way it has dealt with her 
account with it. I dont believe it has. It provided  her with a prepaid card which she could 
have used within a limited period. The expiry date for the card was shown on the front of the 
card. Mrs H did not use the card within that limited  period and it is no longer available to her. 
When PrePay Solutions sent Mrs H the card on behalf of S, they also provided  her with a 
copy of the terms and conditions. These are clear. These state:
5.1 The expiry date of your Card is shown  on the front of the Card. You will not be able to 
use your Card if it has expired. No Transactions  will be processed once your Card has 
expired.
PrePay Solutions set the expiry date based  on Ss instruction. If Mrs H remains upset by 
what has happened, she needs  to complain to S. I dont think  it would be fair to ask PrePay  
Solutions to do anything else as I dont believe it has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN14240732I appreciate Mrs H believes  she is now out of pocket but I dont think  this is the responsibility  
of PrePay Solutions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint against 
PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as PrePay  Solutions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1424073