K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with her home  insurer, U K Insurance Limited, in relation to a claim it 
handled for her when  her conservatory suffered subsidence.
background
Late in 2016 Mrs C noted damage  to her conservatory. In April 2017 she contacted  UKI to 
make a claim. It accepted there was current subsidence movement, but also noted that 
there were pre-existing distortions and signs of wear to the conservatory.  A report  UKI had 
carried out noted the conservatory was around 30 years old and had reached the end of its 
useful life. It was felt if any parts needed dismantling for any subsidence repairs to be 
carried out, it wouldnt be possible to reinstate  those  parts.
UKI determined the cause  of the damage  was most likely tree root induced  clay shrinkage. 
It noted two goat willows  in the next door garden  adjacent to the conservatory. The trees  
were removed and UKI felt that had achieved  stability. It looked to carry out repairs.  The 
repair it was concerned with was the floor slab (although  a vertical crack in the supporting 
wall of the conservatory, in line with the crack in the floor,  is also visible). The slab had 
been installed in two parts and each had moved independently; there  was a crack and a 
difference in level between  the two parts which had caused the tiled floor to crack.
It was agreed that UKI would replace the floor slab. The room was emptied to allow  this to 
be done, including some large pieces of furniture. Before work began  Mrs C told the 
contractor the room was to be used for party on a certain date at the end of July 2018. 
Mrs C was assured the work would be completed  by then. Mrs C had concerns about  how 
work was progressing but the floor slab was finished before the end of July. However, the 
contractor then told Mrs C the room couldnt  be used for six weeks as the floor needed to 
cure. Mrs C had to rearrange  her party plans and pay to hold the event elsewhere.
Once the slab was finished it soon became apparent the work had been done  poorly.  No 
allowance had been made  for ventilation bricks, or access  to pre-existing drainage. The 
finish wasnt satisfactory, the slab wasnt thick enough but the floor level had been 
increased meaning tiles couldnt be laid. It remains unclear if the slab is tied in.
Excavations were  carried out to try and improve access to the drainage. With the floor 
partly excavated work stopped and the conservatory  has been left in a partially  complete 
state since. Whilst UKI has wanted to finish the work, Mrs C believe the conservatory  
needs replacing as a whole, that further  investigations into the foundations are required 
and that UKIs loss adjuster should  be replaced.
UKI agreed  to and did replace the contractor that had carried  out the poor floor slab 
installation. But it said it wasnt feasible  to change the loss adjuster and as it hadnt  done 
the poor work that just wasnt  necessary.
Mrs C complained to this service, and our investigator issued some findings about the 
complaint. Mrs C then provided her own report,  which recommended  further  investigations 
were undertaken and UKI did carry out some further  investigations.  UKI said that with a 
view to settling the claim  it would pay towards the cost of a new like-for-like conservatory 
but it would  deduct an amount for wear and tear. How much it would pay/deduct would  
depend on the outcome of its further investigations. But UKI said it didnt need to assess  
the foundations. It said such an assessment would likely show they were shallow, but 
Ref: DRN10475092regardless, the cause of the subsidence  the trees  had been removed. So it felt it didnt 
need to know  anything more about the foundations.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this. She felt UKIs  service  had been poor throughout and that it 
had made  assumptions  about the cause  of the damage and stability of the conservatory. 
She noted damage to various  items  UKIs contractor had moved prior to work starting  on 
the floor slab. Mrs C described how the on-going  claim,  which should have been resolved  
quite quickly, had made her poorly; physically and mentally. Whilst a final response  in 
May 2018 from UKI had offered £400 compensation, she didnt think this was enough, 
especially given everything that had happened since as the claim had progressed.
UKI agreed  with our investigator  that, as Mrs C remained unhappy, we could look at 
matters up to date. The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision.  
My provisional findings were:
subsidence damage
Mrs Cs expert is critical of UKIs  investigations.  I can understand why an expert might feel 
more consideration  was necessary  but as the soil is clay and there were nearby  trees,  
I dont think a conclusion  that clay shrinkage  was likely occurring was an unreasonable 
one. And Im mindful  that time has passed since and there doesnt seem to be any sign of 
further movement  to the conservatory. A consideration of the foundations would only 
usually be required if stability hadnt occurred, or if an insurer had concerns about  liability  
due to poor workmanship/faulty design.
None of the experts have identified any damage  to the frame and glass  (structure) of the 
conservatory likely linked  to the subsidence. UKIs  concern  has always been with the 
floor crack. UKIs conservatory expert found age related damage to the structure which  it 
felt would prevent  it being dismantled and reassembled. Im not persuaded the structure 
of the conservatory  has been damaged by the recent subsidence  movement.
However, UKI is responsible for resolving the floor slab. It seems this work is unlikely to 
affect the supporting walls of the conservatory,  or require any of the structure to be 
disturbed. Although UKI hasnt yet determined what exactly is needed to reinstate the floor.
What UKI also hasnt answered though   despite  its further investigations  is what  it will 
do, or what is necessary to be done,  in respect  of the vertical crack to the external  support 
wall of the conservatory that is in line with the crack to the floor slab.  It seems  that water  is 
also getting in in this area,  and the new floor slab is wet. I think UKI should accept liability 
for resolving this crack  as its position suggests  it is likely linked to the floor slab damage  
UKI has accepted  liability for (and already  tried to repair). UKI will need to determine  what 
is necessary to resolve this and whether that work  will likely involve any dismantling of the 
conservatory structure. If dismantling is required  then UKI will have to pay towards the cost 
of a new conservatory.
If a new conservatory  is required, I dont think it would be fair to say UKI has to pay for 
that in its entirety.  If the conservatory wasnt suffering  from age and pre-existing damage 
then it could have  been re-used. The fact it cant be re-used  isnt UKIs fault or due to any 
insured loss. Whilst there are also clearly some  concerns about the adequacy of the 
existing foundations, checking  or improvement of these seems only necessary as 
prudence prior to installing a new structure, rather than being necessary  to stabilise what  
is already there. So I cant fairly require UKI to accept full liability  for any related costs 
Ref: DRN10475093(although ideally UKI would have considered the need and/or cost for this as part of its 
further investigations).
So if the wall and floor can be reinstated without affecting the conservatory structure, 
I think UKI should do this work. Of course,  Mrs C will have to agree to let it do this. And Im 
not going to require UKI to change  the loss adjuster. It didnt do the poor work and it was 
never its job to watch the contractors every move. The loss adjuster had no reason to 
think the floor wouldnt  be installed as agreed.
If Mrs C isnt prepared to allow UKI to do further work, then UKI will have to calculate  what 
it will cost it to repair the floor and wall. It will then have to pay this to Mrs C.
If the floor and wall cant be reinstated without the structure being affected then UKI will 
have to calculate what it will cost Mrs C to have the floor and wall repaired and pay this to 
them, along  with 50% of what it will cost them to replace the UPVC elements of the 
conservatory structure, including costs relating to checking  and if necessary installing  
adequate foundations, necessary to support  a like-for-like  structure.  I think, in this third 
scenario, it is fair and reasonable for costs  to be split as the structure and foundation work 
is necessary, as explained above,  for two reasons  one of which  UKI is responsible for 
(floor and wall repair necessitating  dismantling of the UPVC structure)  and one it isnt (the 
UPVC structure cant  be re-installed  due to age related  damage).
Mrs Cs report
This report did cause UKI to carry out further investigations. But I cant  see that they really 
resulted in any change of position or outcome.  Nor did they generate  any information that 
wasnt already known. As such, I dont intend  to make UKI reimburse the cost of this 
report.
damaged items: dressers, blinds,  table and tiles
Mrs C was told she could put the dressers back in the conservatory. UKI has accepted this 
was poor advice as moisture from the recently  installed floor has damaged the feel on at 
least one dresser. UKI will have to assess the dressers to determine  the extent of damage  
and if this can be repaired. If restoration of any dresser isnt possible UKI will have  to 
provide a replacement item, and in doing  so, if relevant, it will have to take into account  our 
approach to matching sets.
UKIs contractor stuffed the blinds in a dresser cupboard  which caused them to be 
creased and damaged. UKI will need to replace them.
The table was stored  by UKIs contractors outside. Over time it became damaged. It 
seems this is likely  beyond  repair. UKI will need to replace  it. Mrs C says it was custom built 
but if UKI can provide a like item from the retail  market  then I think that would be 
reasonable.
I know the table  had sentimental value for Mrs C but there  is no way for that 
particular loss to be restored, all I can do is factor the upset caused by it into my 
compensation award.
The floor tiles were left outside by UKIs  contractor.  Theyve been  subject to cold and wet 
over a prolonged period.  Whether these currently look damaged or not it seems likely 
Ref: DRN10475094theyll have suffered significant and excessive wear that will affect their long-term ability to 
perform once installed. I think UKI reasonably  needs to provide new tiles.
Mrs C says that, over time, other  items in the conservatory have become damaged as 
water has come in. It isnt clear  to me where  water is coming in, other than by the door in 
the vicinity of the crack, or what type of water damage the other items have suffered. If 
water has come in through the UPVC structure, and dripped onto items causing damage, 
then it seems this is likely related to the age and pre-existing  damage Im satisfied UKI has 
no strict  liability for resolving. Im not persuaded it would  be fair to make it liable for any 
items in the conservatory damaged by water getting in through  the UPVC structure from 
the outside. But if items have become generally damp then I may make UKI pay half of the 
cost to replace  them.
party costs
Mrs C was very clear when repairs were to start that the room  was to be used at the end of 
July. She was assured the repairs would  be complete. They were but what no-one  had told 
Mrs C was that the room  still wouldnt be usable.  I think if Mrs C had been told she could 
reasonably have put a hold on work and held the party as planned.  As it was, at short 
notice, Mrs C has to rearrange  things and pay for a venue. If Mrs C can show me proof  of 
the venue booking  including the booking date  Ill consider making  UKI reimburse  that 
cost, plus interest* from the date it was paid until settlement is made.
claim handling and delay.
This claim  has progressed very slowly. I know UKI says the structure of the conservatory 
floor presented some complexities that delayed repair. And that Mrs C did ask for a short 
pause when her mother passed  away. But generally, I think  UKI could and should have 
handled this quicker.  Not least, if it had carried out effective repairs  to the floor in the first 
instance, mostly everything  that has happened since would have been avoided.
Ive mentioned some issues above that have  clearly caused distress  and inconvenience; the 
damage to items, including the table and having to cancel and rearrange the party. Im also 
aware that Mrs C has become ill with sinus issues that her doctor links to the dusty 
atmosphere and confirms  she didnt suffer with prior to the floor slab work being  undertaken 
in 2018. Mrs C has also had to take time off work to deal with the on-going claim.
Whilst some  involvement from policyholders is necessary, I think  Mrs Cs increased  level 
of involvement here is directly related to the poor work UKI undertook  at her home.
Despite UKI agreeing to move thing on in around  May 2019, by saying it would pay 
towards the cost of a new conservatory,  matters  didnt  actually  progress. UKI said it could 
only look at costs once  further investigations were completed. These didnt complete until 
January 2020,  and even then no offer of settlement was made by UKI.
Having taken everything into account, I think UK should pay Mrs C £2,000  compensation. 
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable given the distress and inconvenience I think UKI 
has caused her, over and above that they would  always have suffered if it had handled  
their claim reasonably. To be clear, this is for upset caused to date.
UKI challenged what  Id said about it not moving matters  on after having said it would pay 
towards the cost of a new conservatory  in May 2019, it said an offer to settle had been made 
in September  2019. UKI pointed out we had been made aware  of this offer.
Ref: DRN10475095UKI also said that whilst  Id said it should  accept liability for the crack in the wall underneath 
the exterior doors, its specialist had given a view on cracking (other  than to the floor), in an 
email in February 2020. The conclusion was that other  cracking wasnt subsidence  related.  
Mrs C was unsure which crack  in which wall I was saying UKI should  accept  liability  for, our 
investigator provided clarification. She said she wants her report cost paying and for UKI to 
pay for 75% of the cost of replacing the conservatory. Shes worried  that if UKI settles  in 
cash shell be left to manage the work,  which she feels unable to do and she wasnt sure if 
accepting a cash offer would affect  her ability to sell her home in the future. Mrs C also still 
felt the adjuster should be changed.  Mrs C said the table  had matching chairs.  She noted  it 
was the base of the dresser and bookcase that were damaged, rather  than the feet, but 
there were no other water damaged items.  Mrs C said this claim should have taken no 
longer than two weeks, they had vermin coming  in which didnt seem to be accounted for. 
She wasnt convinced  that my award of £2,000  made up for all the upset shed been caused.
Mrs C also provided an invoice shed  paid for the party. It included room  hire as well as food 
and some drinks. Mrs C couldnt get a further  breakdown and told us her friend had 
organised this for her at short notice when  it became  apparent her conservatory couldnt  be 
used. The invoice total was £890.00. I considered  the matter and sent a copy of the invoice  
to UKI. I said to both parties that it would be fair for UKI to pay a contribution  towards the 
overall cost but I didnt  think it would be reasonable to say it had to pay the entire bill. 
I suggested a contribution  of £200,  plus interest*  if proof of payment is shown, from 
28 July 2018 until settlement  is made,  to which both parties agreed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI did make a cash offer in September 2019   but by this time it had already  agreed to 
undertake further  investigations and review its settlement  in light of those. 
The comments made in the email  in February  2020  related to cracking present around the 
kitchen door to the conservatory. They have no relevance in respect  of what I said about the 
crack that is present on the outer  support wall of the conservatory and in-line with where  the 
tiles cracked and floor slabs had moved  due to the subsidence.
I know Mrs C is concerned  about cracking  to the main house but Ive not seen anything  to 
make me think this is subsidence related.  It is the conservatory that has always  been the 
focus of the claim. I know, at one stage,  there  was a plan to investigate  under the laminate in 
the kitchen but this was later reviewed and found  to be unnecessary  the dip in the laminate 
and nearby crack were felt to be unrelated  to subsidence of the conservatory. UKI has more 
recently considered  cracking to the house  identified in Mrs Cs expert report  and said:
The crack along the edge of the door frame is typical of missing/failed frame fixings allowing the frame 
to move and exacerbated by vibration from the operation of the door Some hairline cracks were  
present above the brick arch above the kitchen/conservatory  doors but this cracking reduced with 
height indicating it was related to slight movement of the arch itself and not subsidence.
To me this makes sense but if Mrs C wants to challenge this by obtaining a counter opinion 
and/or further  evidence  from her expert, or another expert, then she can do so following this 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN10475096Mrs C said, in respect of her report costs, that she was advised  by the adjuster to get a 
report and that shed be reimbursed if that showed  it had been  wrong.  I cant know  what 
Mrs C was told in this respect, but I would usually only award report costs  to a policyholder if 
the report changed the outcome in some way, or added  information that wasnt previously 
known or accepted as being  fact which is relevant  to the progression  of the claim. As I said 
provisionally, Ive seen no sign of that here.
I know Mrs C used the conservatory before this subsidence occurred and it didnt leak.  But 
the fact it leaks now doesnt  mean that is related to the work that has been  done or the 
subsidence which occurred. As items reach  the end of their natural life they can become 
more prone to having faults develop  and the conservatory expert felt the damage to the 
UPVC structure was age related. Ive not seen anything to make  me think he was wrong. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think I should be requiring UKI to pay more towards the 
cost of replacing the conservatory if it should become necessary to take the structure down 
in order to repair the floor and wall (where it is cracked below the exterior door to the 
conservatory). Whilst Mrs C feels UKI should  contribute 75% of the cost of a new 
conservatory, I remain of the opinion set out in my provisional findings that if the UPVC 
structure needs to be taken  down  to effect  the floor/wall repair UKI should contribute 50% 
towards the cost of a replacement conservatory and foundations. 
If settlement  is made in cash  and because were  talking  about technically complex repairs, 
and which  UKI started, I would expect it to factor in costs for an expert  to manage the 
repairs. It isnt something I think Mrs C could reasonably be expected to undertake herself as 
might be the case if we were talking  about a bit of plaster repair  and redecorating, for 
example. In terms of the subsidence  itself,  UKI is satisfied the subsidence has been resolved 
so it should be able to issue Mrs C something confirming this. 
I know Mrs C is unhappy with the loss adjuster  but Im still not persuaded its fair to say 
UKI cant continue to use it if it wants to do so. I know Mrs C has alleged  that the adjuster 
hasnt picked up on some  fraud she believes the contractor perpetrated in respect of 
claiming for costs of work from UKI that it didnt do. As that is a matter between UKI and the 
contractor it isnt something I can comment on. But it is something UKI may wish to look into.
UKI should try and replace  the table to match  the undamaged chairs. If it cant, then it will 
have to look at offering  reasonable settlement  for the chairs  as well. This service  has an 
approach to undamaged but matching items  but we usually  apply that in terms of damage 
from an insured event. Technically, Mrs Cs table was damaged by UKIs  agents 
carelessness, so in this scenario it likely wouldnt be fair for her to be left with unmatching 
items, or to have to pay anything from her own pocket  in order  to obtain matching 
replacement chairs.
UKI will have to assess the dresser(s) and the bookcase  to see if they can be restored. If the 
bases of them are affected rather than the feet then this may not be possible but UKI, if it 
wants to, should  still have the opportunity to consider this. As Mrs C has confirmed there 
was nothing else in the conservatory  then, apart  from what Ive said regarding damaged 
blinds and tiles, there  are no other  damaged items for UKI to consider.
Both parties  have accepted my suggestion  for UKI to pay £200, plus interest*  
towards the room  hire for the party Mrs C had to rearrange. Ill include this in my award set 
out below.
Ref: DRN10475097I know Mrs C thinks this claim was straightforward  and should  have taken no more than two 
weeks. But Im not persuaded that is a likely  timeframe  not least  because trees needed 
removing and even  had the floor been laid properly the first time, it would still have needed 
time to dry. I understand that Mrs C thinks £2,000 compensation is insufficient. But I am 
satisfied that its fair and reasonable  in the circumstances here.  It may help Mrs C to know  
that I dont  often award compensation at this level. Most of my awards  dont exceed  £1,000   
£1,500, and many are much lower than that. I do think  UKI caused a lot of distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs C and my award  reflects  that. To clarify  my award  reflects  total 
compensation I feel Mrs C is due  as noted in my background, UKI offered £400  
compensation previously  but I dont believe this was paid. However, if Mrs C did receive that 
sum UKI will now only have to pay the outstanding  balance of my award.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Determine what is needed to repair/reinstate the floor and wall.
Provide settlement  in relation to the reinstatement works, whether that is carrying 
out work and/or  paying Mrs C so she can arrange for the work  to be done, in line 
with my instructions  above.
Repair or replace the damaged  items,  as set out above.
Pay Mrs C £200, in respect of the party venue, plus interest* (if proof of payment is 
shown) from 28 July 2018 until settlement is made.
Pay Mrs C £2,000  total compensation (if £400 has been  paid before,  the outstanding 
balance only now needs to be paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs C, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1047509