K820x#14complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited has declined the claim shes made for 
treatment under her private medical  insurance policy.
background
Mrs N made  a claim last year after she was told she needed surgery on both eyes.  Shed 
found a surgeon  who she trusted  to do the surgery, but Vitality  said it wouldnt pay for the 
treatment because the surgeon wasnt  registered with it.
Mrs N wasnt happy so asked us to look at her complaint. But our investigator didnt think 
Vitality had done anything wrong  in declining the claim. So the case has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I appreciate  Mrs N 
will be disappointed, I dont currently think it was unfair or unreasonable  of Vitality to decline 
her claim. Ill explain why. 
Mrs N says she has a right to choose  her own surgeon.  And I accept that. But if she wanted 
Vitality to cover her treatment then  like most  other private medical insurance providers  
she had to choose who and where to be treated from Vitalitys list of recognised  consultants 
and hospitals.  This is confirmed in a number of places in the policy terms and conditions as 
well as that to become recognised by us, providers just meet our recognition criteria and 
agree to our terms of recognition.
I note this was also explained to Mrs N when she first got in touch and asked Vitality if it 
would pay for her to be treated. Vitality  checked  its records during that call and told Mrs N 
that her preferred  consultant was no longer  registered with it, but that another  consultant she 
named was recognised and Vitality would  cover all costs if she was treated by him at one of 
four different  hospitals.  Vitality  also contacted  her subsequently to discuss which  other 
consultants might be appropriate.  Despite  this Mrs N chose to use her preferred surgeon  
and incurred the associated costs.
Despite what shes said and the evidence shes provided, I dont think  I can fairly conclude  
that Mrs Ns preferred surgeon  was the only one who could successfully treat her condition.  
Or that she didnt have  other, suitable options which wouldve been convenient for her to 
take up. Nor do I think Vitality was obliged to tell Mrs N why her preferred consultant was no 
longer recognised. And I think Vitality  made  clear that it wouldnt cover any of the costs that 
might arise  from using Mrs Ns preferred  consultant before she actually incurred those costs.
As I dont think Vitality unreasonably declined Mrs Ns claim I cant  fairly tell it to cover  any of 
her costs.
Ref: DRN19573302my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1957330