K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mrs S had a mortgage. Acting on L&Gs advice, she re-mortgaged, consolidating some 
unsecured debt in the process.  Shes now represented by a claims management company, 
which says she shouldnt  have been advised  to consolidate an unsecured loan originally used 
to buy a car. The CMC says that doing so was unsuitable because the car was a depreciating 
asset. It also said it wasnt suitable  to fund the cost of writing a will through the mortgage.
L&G said Mrs S wanted  to shorten the term of her mortgage, from 16 to 12 years.  It said that 
doing so would have put up the monthly payments  so it was suitable  to consolidate the 
loan to reduce  her other  outgoings and make the mortgage affordable. It agreed that it 
wasnt appropriate to fund the will through the mortgage, and offered to refund the interest  
charged, together with £150 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  think it was suitable  to consolidate the loan. He said doing so made  it 
much more expensive  because of interest  charged over the mortgage term. And he noted  
that the record of advice  suggested that the length of the term was driven by the available 
budget  after consolidation  rather than the consolidation being necessary because  of the 
selected term. And he noted  that the mortgage  balance was small, and so the saving from 
re-mortgaging to a lower interest rate was outweighed by the fees added  to the balance. 
L&G didnt agree that the complaint should  be upheld, and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that consolidation of the loan wasnt  necessary in this case. The fact find shows  that 
the new mortgage payment, plus the loan if it hadnt been consolidated, would have left 
Mrs S with no disposable income each month. But that includes making substantial amounts 
each month  to a credit  card with a 0% interest  rate  enough  to clear the balance in a few 
months  and its based on a shortened term. I agree with the investigator that it appears 
from the record of advice that shortening  the term wasnt a priority  for Mrs S; rather,  the term 
was selected based on her budget  after the decision to consolidate had already been made.
The driver for consolidation appears to have been  a desire from Mrs S to put the maximum 
each month  into her mortgage.  But she could have done that by reducing the amount paid to 
the credit  card  at no cost, since it was on a 0% interest rate. And she could  have left the 
term longer, paid the loan for the year it had left to run and then made  overpayments  to the 
mortgage. The offer shows that there  was no restriction on overpayments.
Ref: DRN16137492All that is to say that there  were several ways Mrs S could have achieved  her aim of 
maximising the amount  she paid to her mortgage  without  consolidation. The consolidation 
made the loan significantly  more expensive   so while  it enabled the appearance of paying  
more to the mortgage, the reality was that a significant part of that was covering the 
additional cost of consolidation.  And more was covering the fees she paid to the broker.  
Mrs S was increasing the amount  she paid into her mortgage  but that was because her 
mortgage balance  was higher rather than because she was enabled to save more.  
Its also worth saying   as the investigator  noted   that Mrs Ss mortgage balance was so 
small that the addition  of the fixed costs of re-mortgaging  to another lender, such  as the 
valuation legal and broker fees,  outweighed the savings she made  on the interest  rate.
Taking all of that into account,  therefore, its difficult to see that Mrs S realised any benefit  at 
all from this mortgage advice. Her balance increased, the amount she would pay overall 
increased, and the fees she paid outweighed the savings she made. I think a fair outcome 
here is for L&G to refund the fees charged  and the extra costs of the debt consolidation  in 
addition to the offer its already made  in respect of the will.
I note the mortgage  term would  have  expired by now,  if Mrs S didnt make  any changes  
between the advice and now. In order for L&G to calculate redress  correctly,  Mrs S will need to 
let it know her subsequent  mortgage  history, including the date it was paid off, if it has been.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Legal  & 
General Partnership  Services Limited  to:
Make redress for the debt consolidation by either:
oIf the mortgage still exists:
Calculating the amount paid to date on the consolidated sum as a portion 
of the mortgage  payments;
Calculating the amount of the consolidated  sum still outstanding  on the 
mortgage balance;
Calculating the amount it would have cost to repay the loan 
unconsolidated,
Adding together the first two payments, deducting the third and paying the 
resulting sum to Mrs S; or
oIf the mortgage has since been paid off:
Calculating the amount  paid to the end of the term on the consolidated  
sum as a portion of the mortgage  payments;
Calculating simple  annual interest on that total sum at the rate of 8%* 
from the date the mortgage term ended to the date of payment; 
Calculating the amount  it would have cost to repay the loan 
unconsolidated,
Adding together the first two payments, deducting the third and paying  
the resulting sum to Mrs S.
Refund all broker fees, the application  fee, valuation fee and legal fee, adding interest at 
the mortgage rate from time to time and, if the mortgage  has ended,  simple  annual 
interest of 8%* from the end of the term to the date of payment;
Ref: DRN16137493Refund the interest  charged  on the will, plus  if the mortgage term has ended  simple 
annual interest of 8%* from the end of the term to the date of payment;
Pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If 8% simple  interest is payable, L&G may deduct income tax from that element of my 
award, if it considers  it should do so. But it should  give Mrs S the necessary paperwork for 
her to reclaim the tax from HMRC if shes entitled  to do so, if she asks for it.
Ref: DRN1613749