K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about Virgin Money Plcs  decision to remove  his promotional interest rate
after he made a payment  two days late.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 27 November 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Virgin Money responded and confirmed it didnt have any further comments to make.  
Mr P responded and made the following points: 
-He didnt receive an email  copy  of his statement. 
-He paid a £480 transfer fee when  he accepted  the promotional rate and would like it to 
be refunded if his complain isnt upheld. 
-He questions  whether  Virgin Money  has treated him fairly given this was his first mistake.  
-He questions  whether  increasing the interest rate and payment hes required to make  is 
fair given his payment was only two days late. 
-He feels previous overpayments made should be taken into consideration in regards to 
the increase in interest rate. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive carefully considered  what  Mr Ps said 
in his response to my provisional decision.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent been  
persuaded to change  my decision. Ill explain why. 
In my previous decision I said Virgin Money emailed Mr P in August 2018 to let him know a 
statement was available  to be viewed online. I didnt say itd emailed  a statement. But I 
thought that, along with Mr Ps history  of making payments to his credit card, was sufficient 
for him to have been  reasonably aware he needed  to make a payment each month.  
I also said the account terms dont say that retaining the promotional interest rate was reliant 
on Mr P receiving  statements   it was reliant  on him making payments to his account on 
time. And as Mr P paid late, the terms allowed Virgin Money to remove  the promotional  rate, 
even if it was the first late payment he made. I still think thats the case  and Ive not found 
grounds to tell Virgin Money to reinstate Mr Ps promotional rate. 
I know Mr P paid a transfer  fee for his promotional rate but he also agreed  to make 
payments on time. Theres  nothing  in the terms that says if the promotional rate is removed  
the card holder will be entitled  to a refund and dont think itd be fair to tell Virgin  Money to 
take that step here. 
Ref: DRN12181142I appreciate the payment was only made two days late but as Mr P didnt make  the payment 
on time Virgin Money was entitled  to remove the promotional  rate. And Mr Ps previous 
overpayments arent  something  Id expect Virgin Money to take into consideration when 
deciding whether to leave  the promotional rate in place. Looking at everything Im satisfied  
Virgin Moneys acted  fairly  and in line with the account terms by removing the promotional  
rate and increasing Mr Ps payments as a result  of his late payment. 
Ive looked at all of the comments Mr Ps made  following  my provisional decision.  But having 
done so, Ive not been persuaded to change  my decision. So Im not telling Virgin  Money to 
take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.  
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12181143Copy provisional decision  of 27 November 2018
Complaint
Mr P complains about Virgin Money Plcs  decision to remove his promotional interest rate after he 
made a payment two days  late.
Background
Mr P has a Virgin Money credit card. On 10 August  2018  Virgin Money  sent a statement  requesting a 
payment by 30 August 2018. But Mr P says he only received the statement on 30 August 2018 so his 
payment didnt reach Virgin Money in time  it was two days late.
As a result  of the late payment Virgin Money withdrew Mr Ps 0% promotional interest rate. Mr P 
complained and said that this was the first time hed paid late and it wasnt his fault. But Virgin Money  
didnt agree  so the complaint  was passed to this service to look at.
An investigator looked  at whatd happened  and asked  Virgin  Money to reinstate Mr Ps promotional 
interest rate and refund any additional interest hed paid. The investigator accepted that Virgin  Money 
hadnt acted outside the credit cards  terms but felt because Mr P had run his account well up until his 
late payment  it should reinstate his promotional rate as a gesture of goodwill.
Virgin Money didnt accept the investigators recommendations  and explained  it was entitled to rely on 
the credit cards terms. As Virgin Money didnt agree the case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different decision to the investigator.
While I appreciate this will come as a disappointment  to Mr P Ive not found that Virgin Moneys made  
a mistake in this case. So I dont agree that what the investigators asked Virgin Money  to do is a fair 
way to resolve the complaint. Ill explain why.
Virgin Money has said that it sent Mr P a statement on 10 August 2018 giving the details of what  he 
needed to pay by 30 August  2018. And while  I can see Mr P has told us he didnt receive that 
statement as normal, Im satisfied Virgin Money sent it in time for the payment to be made.
I know Mr P says he wasnt using Virgin Moneys online  system to look at his statements during this 
time. But Virgin Money has provided evidence to show it emailed Mr P to tell him his statement was 
available on 11 August  2018.  So even  if he didnt  go onto view it online,  Virgin Money did send Mr P 
something to let him know a statement  had been produced and was available.
I accept that the paper  statement may have been delayed in the post. But this wasnt Mr Ps first 
payment to Virgin Money. Hed had the credit card for some time and made manual payments in 
excess of the minimum  previously. So I think he wouldve been  reasonably aware that he needed  to 
pay his credit card each month.
Virgin Moneys credit  card terms say that the promotional  rate will be withdrawn  if a payment isnt 
made on time. But theres nothing in the terms that says Virgin Money cant  take that step on the 
basis that the card holder didnt receive a statement.  So while I dont doubt  what  Mr P says about 
receiving the statement later than normal, Ive not found that his interest rate was reliant on 
statements being received on time.
Ref: DRN12181144I think  its reasonable  to note that the credit cards terms also say a customer should contact Virgin  
Money if they dont receive a statement. As Ive said above, Mr P had been using this card for some 
time and making manual  payments. If Mr P didnt receive his August 2018 statement  on time I think  
its reasonable  for Virgin Money to have expected him to let it know so it could send a replacement  or 
tell him what  he needed to pay.
While I accept  this was a genuine oversight on Mr Ps part, for me to uphold a complaint I need to find 
that a business has made a mistake. But in this case, Ive not found any evidence of an error by Virgin  
Money. It sent Mr P details of what he needed to pay in good time and has withdrawn  the promotional 
rate in line with credit  cards terms. I appreciate this will lead to higher payments  for Mr P but as Im 
satisfied Virgin Moneys dealt with his complaint  fairly Im not telling it to do anything  further.
my provisional  decision
Ill consider any further comments received by 11 December 2018. But unless anything changes my 
mind, for the reasons  given above, my provisional  decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN1218114