K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
made on their motor insurance policy.
For ease of reading Ill mainly only refer to Mr H. 
background
In 2018 Mr H became  aware that a third party had made a claim against him for damage to 
their vehicle. The third party alleged that Mr H had opened his car door into their car and 
caused damage. 
Mr H admitted opening his door into the other vehicle. But he says he checked  at the time 
and no damage  was caused.  Ultimately  Admiral settled the third partys claim by paying for a 
repair costing around £525. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained. He maintains that no damage  was caused to 
the other car. He was unhappy with Admirals handling of the claim. Specifically:
the lack of clarity around the allegation  against  him;
the time taken to arrange an inspection of his vehicle and the fact that the third 
partys car wasnt inspected;
he believes the witness statement provided is unreliable and shouldnt be relied  
upon;
he was unhappy  with the level of damage being claimed for by the third party; and 
the claim has been handled  differently as both parties are insured by Admiral.
Admiral agreed they could  have been  clearer about the allegation that was made.  And that 
they took longer than they should  have to arrange for Mr Hs car to be examined. To put this 
right they offered to not take the claim into account  when assessing  Mr Hs no claims bonus 
moving forward.
Admiral went on to say that they didnt uphold the other elements of the complaint.  They  
explained that theyd considered the relevant evidence and defended their decision to settle 
the claim.  
Being unhappy with this Mr H referred the complaint  to our service.  One of our investigators 
didnt think it should be upheld. He thought Admiral had acted within  the policy terms and 
fairly. And that the offer made with regard to the no claims bonus  was fair for the service  
issues. 
Mr H still disagrees  and has asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know  Mr H feels very strongly about the 
complaint and is likely to be disappointed,  so Id like to explain why. 
Ref: DRN12818162Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident or incident, as thats the role of the 
courts. Instead we look to see that an insurer has made their decision on how to settle a 
claim fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see, Mr Hs policy gives Admiral the right to take over and defend or 
settle any claims as they see fit. This might mean Admiral makes  a decision Mr H doesnt 
agree with but the policy allows them to do so. My role is to consider whether theyve done  
so fairly  and reasonably. 
Admiral say a witness has made  a statement explaining they saw Mr H open his car door 
into the other car. Mr H disputes that the witness could have seen what  they said they saw. 
He also questions the statements reliability as he says the time given of the incident is wrong 
by around an hour and a half. 
The dispute  is about whether or not damage  was caused. But as Mr H has admitted opening 
his door into the other car, I dont think the statement  on its own was a deciding  factor.  But I 
would still expect Admiral  to consider it, as it is relevant evidence. 
Ive seen pictures of Mr Hs car and the report made by an engineer.  This records  that the 
nearside door has a paint  chip to the outer edge  at 30 inches from the ground. Ive also 
seen pictures of the third partys car which show a black  mark on the door around  30 inches 
from the ground. There is also evidence of a quote  to repair the damage at the cost of £525.  
Admiral say that taking  everything into consideration, the damage is consistent with what  
would be expected from a door being  opened into another vehicle. So they made the 
decision to settle  the claim. They considered the quote for a repair  to be reasonable and 
proceeded on that basis.
Mr H says that he would have expected the damage  to be lower  than 30 inches as both he 
and Mrs H were  sitting in their car at the time. He says the mark on his door is actually  at 29 
inches. Ive considered  this and if there  were  a large difference between the two 
measurements it may give me cause for concern. But I think an inch difference  is within  the 
margin of error for what Id reasonably  expect for someone taking a measurement.  So I dont 
think Admirals  conclusion  that the damage was consistent with what was alleged is 
unreasonable. 
Mr H also says he thinks the cost of the repair  was unreasonably high. He said hes 
previously had a similar  repair at around half the price. I think  it is largely a decision for 
Admiral as to whether  or not they consider the repair cost to be reasonable or not. As a large 
insurer they are well placed to make  that judgement. And this combined with the evidence  of 
the quote from a garage means  Im not persuaded Mr H has been disadvantaged by Admiral  
accepting the quote for the repair.
Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest that Admiral have handled this claim differently 
as a result  of both sides being insured with them. Taking everything into consideration, 
I think Admirals  decision  to settle the claim with Mr H at fault is fair, reasonable and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Admiral themselves have  admitted the service theyve provided  fell below the standards they 
aim for with regard  to the time taken to arrange  an inspection of Mr Hs car, and that some of 
their communication could  have been clearer.
Ref: DRN12818163So all that remains to be decided  is whether  their offer to not take this incident  into 
consideration with regard  to Mr Hs no claims  bonus is fair to put things right. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think it is. I understand Mr H felt he had to drive this claim 
and chase for things  to happen. But I think the redress  Admiral  have suggested  is sufficient 
to compensate for this, so Im not directing that they need to do more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1281816