K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a used car he got with a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) from Black
Horse Limited (trading as Land Rover Financial Services) (LRFS) is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 22 April 2020. A copy of this decision is attached  and forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  what Id decided  about this complaint  and 
what I intended to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.  
LRFS had nothing  further to add but Mr B asked for more  time to respond so he could take 
advice and obtain additional evidence. He has now provided further submissions as Ive set 
out below.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see Mr B has gone to some trouble to obtain additional information here. Hes sent us 
several invoices relating  to work  done  to the car. I want  to assure  him that I have considered 
these carefully. But, I am afraid this information  hasnt  changed  my mind. 
The invoices supplied include work done  to the car between October 2018 and November 
2018 as follows:-
routine services at 64,000 miles and 80,000 miles in October 2018 and November 
2019;
diagnostic checks and repairs to the gearshift module and satnav in early 2019;
tailgate latch replaced in January 2019;
new headlight bulbs  and tyres  in February  2019;  and 
a valve and door catches replaced  in October  2019. 
I have seen most of this information previously  or, if I havent  seen  a specific invoice, I was 
aware that the relevant  work had been  carried out from other evidence already provided. As 
such Ive dealt with this in my provisional findings  and I dont think  this additional 
information takes matters much further.  
For the reasons  Ive given already, I remain of the view there are not enough  fair and 
reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I realise this decision is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr B and Im sorry about that. But, Mr B doesnt  have  to accept what  Ive 
said, in which case it remains open  to him to pursue this matter by other means  should he 
wish to do so.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Ref: DRN15732322Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15732323copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that a used car he got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from Black
Horse Limited (trading as Land Rover Financial Services)  (LRFS)  is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr B got this car in January  2018,  when  it was about four years old with approximately
43,000 miles  on the clock. He sent the dealer an email the following month to say the gears
werent working properly, the switch  on/off button wasnt functioning, there was a problem
with the lighting system and there were issues with the wheels, missing car mats and the
finance as well. The dealer  resolved some of these and agreed to take a look at the car to
check the rest. That inspection took place  in June 2018. The dealer changed  some bulbs
and updated software but couldnt replicate the problems that Mr B had reported.
The following month Mr B took the car abroad where  it broke down. The car was recovered
to the UK and the dealer carried  out repairs. Mr B says the breakdown  was caused by
engine/gearbox issues that hed complained  about previously. But, the dealer  said the
problem was a blocked  fuel filter that should have been replaced during a routine service
which was overdue.
The car went  back to the dealer in December 2018 when some parts were replaced under a
warranty Mr B got with the car. A few months later, in February 2019,  a tyre and two bulbs
had to be replaced and Mr B complained  to LRFS a month  later.  He thinks the car has
underlying issues with the gearbox and electrics that were present when he got it - and
havent been  fixed despite  the dealer having the car back at least twelve times. He wants to
reject the car and receive a refund.
LRFS doesnt think Mr B would have been able to drive the car as far as he did if it was of
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied - it says (in summary):-
the car had nearly 55,000 miles on the clock when it first went  back  to the dealer in June 
2018, bulbs were  replaced and software was updated  but the dealer couldnt find the 
other issues that Mr B reported;
the dealer saw the car again in October 2018, after it broke  down due to a lack of 
servicing, by which  time it had covered 63,151 miles;
the car went back to the dealer for an MOT in December 2018 and satnav and gear 
selector modules were  replaced;  and
a tyre and two bulbs were replaced at 70,303 miles in early  2019 due to wear and tear.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence  and he doesnt recommend the complaint
should be upheld. He understands  Mr B thinks the gearbox was faulty from the outset but
hes not persuaded thats  likely. He accepts the gear selector  module was replaced near the
end of 2018 but hes satisfied that the car had been driven 24,500 miles  after supply by that
stage - and he thinks its unlikely  this is a fault that was present when  Mr B got the car.
He considers the breakdown in 2018 was probably  the result of an overdue service and he
thinks it would be unreasonable to hold LRFS responsible for that - or for service  items like
new bulbs and tyres.  Hes not persuaded that the issues Mr B reported more  recently  are
likely to have been the result  of faults that were present at the point of supply. And he
doesnt think  LRFS should have to do anything further.
Mr B is unhappy  with that outcome. He says the car still has multiple issues  and he was told
that outstanding repairs will cost about  £1,300.  He believes the car has had the same
problems since supply, it was unfit for purpose from the outset and LRFS should have  done
more to help. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
Ref: DRN15732324my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im presently minded to reach much the
same conclusions as our investigator for broadly  the same  reasons.
Where evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other  words, what  I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
LRFS supplied this car to Mr B under a finance agreement so it was required - under the
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - to ensure that the car was of satisfactory  quality at the
point Mr B got it. What  amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual
circumstances, but its generally  considered  reasonable  to take the age, cost and mileage
into account  in the case of a used car.
The car Mr B got here was around four years old, cost about £21,500  and had just over
43,000 miles  on the clock. I think most people would accept that a car like this wouldnt  meet
the same standard  as a brand new vehicle - some parts would be worn  and need to be
repaired or replaced sooner  or later. I think  thats  reflected in the lower price paid for a used
car.
Theres no dispute that Mr B complained to the dealer fairly soon after he got the car. I can
see the dealer  didnt investigate the mechanical issues Mr B reported for several months but
I dont think that was deliberate. It looks  as if the dealer  couldnt provide  a courtesy vehicle until June 
2018 - because Mr B had points on his licence  which  expired then. I understand
Mr B didnt want to do without a car in the meantime  as he needed  transport for work. And
Im satisfied Mr B seems to have been able to carry on driving the car without too much
trouble - he covered  about  12,000 miles  between supply and the inspection  in June 2018.
Ive seen an invoice the dealer provided for work done in June 2018. I think the dealer
seems to have checked everything Mr B said was wrong  but the abnormal noise  and other
problems he reported  could not be replicated. I accept software for the transmission range
selector was updated but I cant fairly find that means the car was faulty when it was
supplied - from the information I have at the moment.
I dont think theres any dispute that the car broke down  the following  month.  Ive got limited
information about this. Mr B says it was due to inherent issues.  But hes been unable to
supply a breakdown report (or anything  similar) that might explain what  happened exactly.
Im satisfied the dealer  took a look at the car after it was recovered - and carried out some
repairs. The dealer says the problem was a blocked fuel filter and, on the evidence I have,
Ive got no reason to think the breakdown was due to anything other than that.
The dealer says this filter should have been replaced  some months before - in a routine
service. I accept LRFS was obliged to supply  a car of satisfactory  quality at the point  of
supply but maintenance and servicing was Mr Bs responsibility - and I cant  reasonably hold
LRFS responsible for the failure of this sort of service item.
I realise Mr B will probably feel thats unfair. He told me he didnt see the cars  service
history at the outset.  He says the dealer  didnt provide this (despite being asked)  and just
promised to let him know when a service was due. I cant be certain  what the dealer said to
Mr B about servicing.  But, Im satisfied that hed driven  the car over 12,000 miles by July
2018. Most manufacturers recommend a service after that sort of distance. And I think  Mr B
should reasonably have known a service  was due and arranged one - before taking the car
abroad especially.  
Ref: DRN15732325I cant  fairly hold LRFS  responsible for any failings in the dealers  customer  service post sale and Im 
not persuaded  that there are reasonable  grounds to hold LRFS responsible for any failure to service 
the car after supply here.
The dealer says Mr B got the car back in October 2018. Some  of the information  Mr B sent
us suggests the dealer had the car for three months at this point - from September  until
December 2018. I acknowledge there seems to have been  some delay in having the car
repaired - but it looks as if this was due to issues in relation to the warranty. I think Mr B
must have had the car back by the start of November  2018 at least because  he emailed the
dealer on 7 Nov 2018 to book car in for brake pad replacement. Im satisfied this email
doesnt refer to any electrical issues or problems  with the gearbox. And Id expect Mr B to
reasonably have mentioned  that - if such issues were present.  
Theres no dispute that the dealer did more work  to the car in December 2018.  Ive seen an
invoice that says it carried  out an MOT and satellite  navigation and gear selector modules
were replaced, under  the warranty. Mr B had the car for nearly a year at this point and
travelled some 27,000 miles since supply. I am not persuaded, on the current  information,
that these  parts are likely to have faulty since the point of supply. I appreciate Mr B feels  the
car had gearbox  issues  from the start. But, even if I were to find the gearbox problems he
reported early  on were  linked to the gear selector module replacement nearly  a year later,
Im satisfied that repair was done under the warranty at no additional cost to Mr B. I think  he
seemed to accept the repairs at the time and they seem to have resolved  the problem.
I accept light bulbs and a tyre were replaced  near the start of 2019.  Looking  at the time Mr B
had the car and the mileage covered by this stage, I think these repairs were  probably due to
wear and tear - and I cant fairly  hold LRFS liable for that. Mr B told me the car broke  down
again in August 2019  and sent photographs of the car being recovered and a breakdown
report. I dont doubt this breakdown occurred but I have  very little information about the likely
cause. Mr B had the car for about a year and a half at this point and hed driven it over
30,000 miles.  On balance, I am not persuaded hes likely to have  been able to do that if the
car had a fault since the outset.
I can see that Mr B had more trouble with this car in the months  that followed - including a
tyre that needed  replacing, a handbrake light illuminated,  a crack in windscreen and
problems locking. Mr B says the dealer fixed the locking issue but now the windows
randomly go down - and the car currently has a gearbox light illuminated and error
messages displayed  relating to electronic stability control. Mr B has supplied some
paperwork from a local garage that confirms these lights are present  and need investigating
but nothing more.  I understand  Mr B feels this supports his view that the car still has gearbox
and electrical  defects that were present when he got it. But, taking everything Ive seen into
account, I dont think theres enough evidence to fairly find thats the case. 
From the information available to me so far, Im not satisfied  that I can reasonably conclude
this car has faults that were  present or developing when  it was supplied. This means  I cant
reasonable require LRFS to take the car back - or do anything  further. I realise this
provisional decision  is likely  to disappoint  Mr B but its not my final decision. It remains  open
to Mr B to provide further evidence if he wants  to and I will take that into account before I
reach my final decision.
I now invite  the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further
submissions by the date below. After that, Ill look at all of the available  evidence  again and
make my final decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, subject to any further  submissions that I may receive
from the parties by 22 May 2020, my provisional decision  is that I do not intend to uphold this
complaint.
Ref: DRN1573232