K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  about the additional  premium AXA Insurance  UK Plc charged  her for her 
car insurance after she told it shed received points on her driving  licence for speeding.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I explained in my decision that I wasnt likely to uphold the complaint. This is 
what I said:
At the end of November 2016 Miss K took out car insurance with AXA. In April 2017  she 
called it to explain that at the end of October 2016  the police had given her three points on 
her driving licence for speeding (known  as an SP30) and a fine of £100.  
AXA told Miss K it would charge her an additional  premium of £177.68 to cover her for the 
remaining policy year.  Miss K complained, because she didnt think  this was fair or 
proportionate for her first conviction  on an otherwise clean licence. AXA offered her the 
chance to cancel her policy and a refund of premium for the unused  time remaining on her 
policy. It also agreed to waive the cancellation  charge of £52.50. Miss K didnt cancel the 
policy saying this wasnt in her best interests.  She came to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said that taking  reasonable care Miss K should 
have told AXA shed  been caught  speeding before she took out the AXA policy. AXA would  
have charged her more  if shed done so at the outset. When  she contacted it about the 
points on her licence  he said AXA had correctly calculated the additional  premium  that was 
due. 
But our adjudicator didnt think AXA had given  Miss K enough information about  all her 
options. He said as a result  shed not been able to make an informed decision to cancel  the 
policy and go elsewhere. So he said AXA should  refund the additional premium,  with 
interest, and pay her £50 for distress and inconvenience. AXA didnt  agree  so the complaint 
came to me for review. 
developments
I asked our adjudicator  to get some  more information from both Miss K and AXA.  
We asked AXA the question/s Miss K would  have been asked when she took out the policy. 
It said she was asked  Have you had any driving related convictions,  endorsements,  
penalties, disqualifications  or bans in the past 5 years? An additional comment  with this 
question was that Offence codes and penalty  points are recorded against your driving  
records. It explained how the consumer could  check  the information  on a government 
website. 
Our adjudicator sent these questions to Miss K and asked her why shed not told AXA about  
the speeding penalty points on her driving licence, and to clarify  comments shed made 
earlier about being out of the UK. Miss K responded to say that after the time that has 
elapsed she cant now remember all the details. She cant now access  her policy  with AXA 
online. But she said her complaint was more about  the way AXA had treated her, in saying 
she was a higher  risk. She said she wasnt a teenage driver but had a number of years 
driving experience.  She thought shed done everything correctly. 
Ref: DRN19317392We asked AXA if it had received a police  letter from Miss K, which she said shed sent to it. 
But it said it hadnt. It had received only proof of no claims discount  (NCD).  Miss K said she 
believed shed sent the police letter, and wouldnt have tried to hide anything given shed told 
AXA about the conviction in the first place.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Given shed been  charged with speeding at the end of October 2016, I think that taking  
reasonable care, Miss K should have  told AXA about that in response to when she applied  
for the policy at the end of November  2016. If shed done so, I accept AXA has shown it 
would have charged her more for her policy  from the outset.
I know that Miss K thinks the extra amount that AXA charged  her was too high  it was 
around 30% extra. She thought other insurers might not have charged so much.  She points 
out shes not a teenage  driver and has held her licence for a number of years.  
When deciding to offer a policy  and the premium  to charge for that, insurers  will take into 
account many different  factors. And each insurer will go about that in its own way. In my 
experience, most insurers will consider a driver with a speeding offence to be a higher risk 
than drivers without one. And AXA can decide how much it is willing  to charge for that 
additional risk  as long as it goes about that in a fair way and treats  all of its customers in 
the same  way.
AXA has sent us evidence to show how its calculated the additional premium it charged 
Miss K when she did tell it about  the three points shed received on her licence. It hasnt  
made a mistake in the amount it charged her. And I think it treated her the same way as it 
would have treated  other customers in the same situation. So I dont think  it acted unfairly  in 
charging her the extra £177.68.
Miss K said that she thought other insurers might have charged her less than AXA.  That may 
be so, but it doesnt  mean AXA treated her unfairly. And AXA properly gave her the chance  
to go elsewhere  it offered to refund the premium for the unused part of the policy year 
(called a pro-rata  refund)  and also to waive its usual cancellation fee. I think  that was fair.
As our adjudicator mentioned there  is specific legislation  The Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers can do if a 
consumer doesnt  answer the insurers questions with reasonable care at the time they took 
out their policy. CIDRA says that insurers may cancel the policy or explain that they will 
settle any future claims on a proportionate basis. CIDRA doesnt allow  insurers just to 
impose an additional premium.
But we think  its fair for the insurer to explain to the consumer theres a problem  and to give 
them the option of paying the additional  premium in order to keep the policy  going  or 
otherwise to cancel  the policy themselves. And thats what AXA did here.  It gave Miss K the 
choice to cancel  her policy without charge and to receive a pro-rata refund of the premium  
shed paid to date. Having been given that option, Miss K decided not to cancel  her policy  
but to stay with AXA.  So I dont think shes been disadvantaged.
Ref: DRN19317393So I cant fairly say that AXA must refund the additional premium to Miss K or to pay her 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  AXA correctly  told Miss K the extra  amount 
shed needed  to pay for her car insurance  and it gave her the chance  to go elsewhere,  
without any additional  charge, if she wasnt happy  with the amount of the extra  premium.  
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment given our earlier findings. But for the reasons 
Ive explained  I dont intend  to uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
AXA said it didnt have  anything  further to add. 
Miss K said she thought  Id missed the point of her complaint. She wasnt fighting for money 
but rather about AXAs attitude  that she was high risk when shed  got only three  penalty  
points on her licence.  She could  have gone  elsewhere, paying £50 to do so, but would then 
have to start elsewhere  with a higher payment straight away  before starting monthly  
instalments. She couldnt afford to do this, which is why she was stuck with AXA. 
Miss K said that the extra amount that AXA added to her premiums was about 40% over the 
remaining three or four months. Her research was that three points would be likely  to 
increase her premium by around 10%. The fact that other people  seem to have complained, 
and the length of time it has taken us to deal with this issue suggests that others  have 
complained for similar reasons. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  that Miss K thinks Ive missed the point of her complaint. Ive carefully  thought 
about all her comments but they dont change my mind. 
I do appreciate that Miss K is concerned that AXA treated her as a higher risk, even though  
shed been driving for several years  and these were  her first penalty  points.  I did understand 
that this was part of her complaint. I said in my provisional decision that she thought shed 
been charged too much compared to what other  insurers might charge, even though she 
wasnt a teenage  driver  and had an otherwise clean licence. 
But I remain  of the view that AXA, as an insurer, is entitled to decide how much  it will charge  
for a particular risk. So even if another insurer might judge three penalty points differently, 
this doesnt mean AXA has done  anything wrong when deciding the premium it would 
charge Miss K. 
AXA calculated the additional premium for Miss Ks policy correctly, and charged her the 
same amount that it would charge any other  customer in her position. Shes not been  singled  
out. 
I understand it was a sharp price  increase  for Miss K, as the additional premium wasnt  
spread over twelve months  as it would have been if AXA had known about  the penalty  points 
from the outset. Thats  why I think it was fair for AXA not to charge the £50 cancellation fee 
so Miss K could go elsewhere. I can see shed then have needed  to pay a premium to 
another insurer but she could still have spread the cost over 12 months. 
Ref: DRN19317394We have received complaints about  the pricing of insurance policies. Weve  been 
considering our broader approach for this type of complaint. But I must still decide  each  
individual complaint on its own facts and merits. And in this case I think AXA treated Miss K 
fairly. So I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision and in this final decision, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1931739