K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the level of service received, and the total loss settlement Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  (Advantage)  paid him, following a claim he made under his 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr W has complained about the performance  of his insurance policy. Therefore the 
complaint should  be against the underwriter  of the policy  because  the underwriter  is 
responsible for this aspect. In this case its Advantage.  So I will refer to the underwriter, and 
its agents, as Advantage. 
Mr W had an accident in July 2019. Advantage accepted the claim and said his car was a 
total loss, so it offered to pay him the market  value. It offered to pay him £5,500  but later 
increased this to £5,620  minus any excess.  
Mr W was unhappy with the settlement offer made  by Advantage and raised the following  
concerns: 
Hes unhappy about the poor service received throughout his claim;
He thinks Advantage  should increase its settlement offer so that he can replace his 
car with a similar one; 
Hes unhappy with Advantages  claims process and being unable  to keep his car; 
and 
He thinks he should get a refund of premiums because his policy was cancelled.  
Advantage said it agreed it didnt provide Mr W with a reasonable level of service and 
offered to pay him £75. It also offered to pay him for a toolkit and some money that was left 
in the car. But it maintained that it had offered him a fair valuation based  on the motor trade 
guides. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He said Advantage should increase its offer to enable  him to 
replace his car with a something  similar. He said his car had several different luxury extras 
and low mileage compared to the average.  He also remained  unhappy  with the level of 
service received when  he made the claim  to it. So he brought  his complaint  to our service.  
Our investigator looked into everything  but didnt think  the complaint should  be upheld.  She 
agreed Advantage didnt provide a reasonable level of customer  service but felt it had 
compensated him fairly  to recognise that. She also looked into the value it offered and 
agreed it was fair and reasonable.  
Advantage agreed, but Mr W didnt, and so the case has been  passed to me for final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator spoke  to Mr W about the mileage of his car at the time of loss. Within 
correspondence, he said the mileage was roughly 38,000. I have checked the MOT records 
Ref: DRN10751352and note that in March  2018 the mileage was 39,830. So I think  its fair to base my 
investigation on this given the loss occurred in July 2018. Mr W said he would provide further 
information about the mileage, which I appreciate, but I have an accurate record of this from 
the MOT record  and so I wont require anything else to make a decision. 
There are a few different  elements  that Mr W has raised in relation to his complaint about 
Advantage. So, to keep  things simple, I will refer to the points below in turn. 
The market  value offered by Advantage 
Mr Ws policy says that in the event of a total loss, Advantage wont  pay more than the 
market value at the time the loss occurred. 
Our role isnt to value  a car. In these types  of cases our approach  is to check  the relevant 
motor trade  guides  and consider whether an insurer has made a reasonable offer thats  in 
line with them. Typically  guides will be more persuasive than adverts as theyre based on 
research of nationwide selling prices. By comparison, adverts  dont account  for any 
negotiations that take place. 
The guide  prices are averages  and may vary from place to place. But I think  it is fair to use 
them to assess whether Advantages offer is fair and reasonable. Where theres variation 
between them, we may decide to discount  one if its out of line with the offers. 
In this case Advantage paid Mr W £5,620. I checked the guides and found the following: 
CAP £4,665 
Glass £5,620 
Cazana £7,342 
I dont think it would  be fair to include the value given by Cazana  here because  I think  it is 
too out of line with the other two values. And so, I have removed this value from my research 
because theres more than a £1,700  difference in comparison to the closest value to it. 
Based on my research,  I think the value is reasonable because  it is in line with the higher 
value of the two guides  I have found. So I think it has applied  the terms of the policy  fairly 
and offered Mr W a reasonable value for his car based on this. 
Mr W said he thinks his car was worth more. But based on what Ive looked at, I dont think 
hes demonstrated that. I appreciate the car had a significantly low mileage at the time of 
loss compared  to the average, but the guides take this into account. He also mentioned  his 
car had luxury extras and a full service history, but these are something  thats  also taken 
account of by the guides. So, whilst I appreciate  this will disappoint Mr W, I wont  be telling 
Advantage to increase the market value settlement it paid him. 
Refund of premiums
Mr W asked Advantage to refund his premiums  following the cancellation of his policy. But I 
cannot agree with him that it would be fair or reasonable to require it to do this. The policy 
sets out that if your claim is settled on a total loss basis and you do not replace your car 
under this policy, you will be liable  for the full annual premium.  This is regardless of whether 
a policyholder has paid their premium in full or monthly; because the policy  goes on to say 
that any outstanding premium  may be deducted from the claims settlement. And in any 
Ref: DRN10751353event as Mr W has benefitted from the policy by Advantage  accepting  and paying his claim, 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require  Advantage to refund  his premiums. So I wont be 
requiring it to do this. 
Level of customer service 
I agree  that things  could have been  handled  better. But I think Advantage has accepted this 
and offered Mr W a reasonable amount of compensation. Having looked at everything, I 
understand there were delays and Mr W had to chase for information  and didnt think  he 
received an acceptable level of service  when he contacted it soon after the accident. I also 
understand hes been unwell and so I appreciate this would have added to his distress and 
inconvenience. But I think £75 fairly  recognises  the poor level of service he received. Our 
awards are not to punish a business. 
I understand part of Mr Ws concerns about  the service  he received was to do with the lack 
of clarity around what options he had. This service doesnt expect an insurer  to ask if a 
policyholder wishes  to retain their car. But if a policyholder does tell an insurer  they do wish 
to do so, then wed generally expect the insurer to allow them  to do this.
Mr W did query what the value would of his car would be had he wished to retain  it. I note 
there was some delay  in Mr W being provided  with this information; however  he did have  the 
option to retain his car should he have wanted to do so at the time he asked. This is because 
I can see Advantage provided him with the details of this. 
To summarise, based on what Ive seen I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Whilst 
I appreciate things could have  been  handled  better,  I think Advantage has paid Mr W a fair 
market value of his car, and recognised the distress  and inconvenience it caused him by 
failing to provide  a reasonable  level of service. So I wont be asking it to do anything  else. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Liam Hickey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1075135