K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that UK Insurance Limited  (trading as Direct Line) failed to remove  a staff 
discount before sending  him an invitation  to renew his car insurance.
background
In late January 2019 Direct Line sent Mr H an invitation to renew his car insurance, which 
was due to expire  in early March 2019.  Mr H had previously worked for Direct Line but had 
left its employment  about  a year beforehand. Mr H was happy with the premium  quoted  and 
called Direct  Line a few days later to renew  his insurance. However, when he updated his 
employment details,  his staff discount was removed and the quote doubled from about £250  
to £500. Mr H thinks Direct Line shouldnt have  raised his expectations by saying his 
premium would be about £250  when  it knew he no longer worked for Direct Line and 
shouldnt therefore  have included the staff discount  in the renewal invitation.  He thinks Direct  
Line should honour the original quote  or compensate him for the extra amount he would 
have to pay.
Direct Line didnt think it had done  anything wrong and didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold his complaint either. He said that although Direct Line would have 
known that Mr H no longer worked  there,  he didnt  think it was reasonable for it to rely on 
staff records when updating an individuals policy information. He said the renewal process 
for Direct Lines staff is the same  as for any other  customer. A renewal invite  is sent out and 
the onus is then on the policy holder to notify  the insurer  of any relevant change of 
circumstances. 
As Mr H remains unhappy, his complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
He believes Direct Line should have  had a process  for updating its records when staff leave 
its employment and thinks it made  a fundamental error in sending  out a renewal invitation 
knowing it was inaccurate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr H 
but, having done so, I find that I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
There is no dispute that Direct Line was aware that Mr H no longer worked there. The 
question here is whether  it should  have updated his policy details in light of that knowledge 
before sending a renewal  invitation. From the information Ive seen, I dont think  it did 
anything wrong  by not doing that. Direct  Line has told us that data protection legislation 
prevents it from using information from its staff records to change  a consumers policy.  It 
says the renewal process for its staff is therefore  the same  as for any other  customer. I think 
thats fair and reasonable.
The purpose of the renewal invitation is to make  it as easy  as possible for customers to 
renew their policies. It also gives them an opportunity to update their circumstances if 
anything has changed. The renewal document sent to Mr H emphasises  the need  to notify 
Direct Line immediately if any of the details in the document are incorrect, no longer  entirely 
accurate or if they are unsure about  them, and says that incorrect  information could 
adversely affect  the policy. 
Ref: DRN11506972The renewal  invitation  sent to Mr H also notes that he is an employee of Direct Line. That 
information was wrong  but I dont agree with Mr H that it was the responsibility of Direct  Line 
to change it. The correct  process was for Direct Line to send the renewal quote to Mr H and 
for him to then decide  whether to proceed  with the quote in light of the information provided. 
It was Mr Hs responsibility to check that the information on the notice was correct.  That 
process was followed  when Mr H called Direct  Line in January 2019 and his staff discount 
was correctly removed  from his policy. 
Mr H says that Direct Line sent him a renewal invitation for another car he owns  a week  after 
the first invitation, and that didnt include the staff discount. He thinks  this shows Direct  Line 
must have  made a mistake with the first renewal  quote. I havent  seen the details of that 
second invitation but, as it was sent a week after the first and Mr H had spoken to Direct Line 
in between times, it might be that it had already amended his details by then. But, in any 
event, Mr H hasnt suffered any financial loss because even if Direct Line had made  a 
mistake, the outcome  would  have  been  the same and his quote would have been about 
£500. 
In light of the above, I dont think Direct  Line has treated Mr H unfairly. Hes asked for 
compensation for the service  Direct  Line provided  but, as Mr H hasnt suffered any financial 
loss and I havent found that Direct Line has done  anything wrong,  I dont think  it needs to do 
any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1150697