K821x#15complaint
Miss V complains  that the car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement  with Close 
Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory quality. 
Shes being helped with her complaint by a representative, Mrs V. 
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss V under a conditional sale agreement  with Close  Brothers 
in September  2017. The car wouldnt start two days later so Miss V returned it to the dealer 
for a repair.  However  after the car was collected the issue remained and Miss V had to make  
use of a recovery company. The car was returned again and it is believed  the electronic 
control unit (ECU) was replaced  under warranty. This was in October 2017, just over a 
month after acquisition.  
However this didnt resolve  the issue. Over the next couple of months Miss V had to return 
the car on several  occasions and repairs were  attempted.  Miss V received the car back in 
January 2018  and says only one key was returned. In February the issues with starting  the 
car returned. Discussions  were held with the garage over the coming months  and Miss V 
says she explained  she no longer  wanted the car.
 
In April 2018, Miss V had an inspection report carried  out which suggested an issue with the 
ECU. 
Issues continued and in November 2018 the car went  to a garage for a replacement ECU 
and exhaust gas recirculation  valve (EGR). Miss Vs car went  into storage at this time and I 
understand she didnt have use of the car from November 2018.
Close Brothers arranged  an independent inspection of the car. The report  concluded  that the 
current issue with the car related to water  ingress in the ECU area. It says the report  said 
this issue wouldnt have  been present at the point  of supply.  Based on this it didnt uphold  
Miss Vs complaint. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said there  was a fault with the car and that he 
thought this occurred within the first 2,000 miles and certainly within  six months of 
acquisition. He said that Miss V had given the opportunity for repair but the issue  continued. 
Because of this he thought it fair that the car could be rejected. He recommended  that 
Miss Vs agreement be cancelled with nothing further owing, that certain payments be 
refunded along  with other costs, and that Miss V be paid £250  compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  she had been caused.
Close Brothers didnt  accept our investigators  view. It said that repairs were carried  out 
without authority from it or the supplying dealer. It reiterated that the independent inspection 
report said the issues werent the responsibility of the selling agent.
Mrs V asked if the costs  of moving the car from storage would be refunded along with the 
other recommended redress.
Ref: DRN18522152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its individual merits. I take relevant regulations  into account but my decision is based on 
what I consider fair and reasonable  given the unique  circumstances of the complaint.
Miss V acquired a car through a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers. Under the 
regulations, Close Brothers can be liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point 
of supply. Satisfactory  quality takes into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the 
car. In this case the mileage recorded  on the finance agreement was 69,000  but a higher 
mileage of 69,337  was recorded on the MOT undertaken five months  before acquisition.
Miss V experienced an issue starting  the car two days  after acquisition. The car was 
returned to the dealer but the issue wasnt resolved. I understand the ECU was replaced  
however the report  carried out in November 2017 says a new ECU  is required. The issues  
with the car continued and an inspection carried out in April 2018 again suggested an issue  
with the ECU. The replacement  ECU took place along with the EGR  valve in late 2018.
Based on the above, I accept that there  was an issue  with the car starting  that was present 
or developing at the point of supply and that Miss V raised this with the dealer. The issue  
appears to be linked to the ECU.  A repair was undertaken but this wasnt  successful. Further  
inspections showed  the ECU was still not working  as it should and Miss V continued to 
experience issues  with the car starting.
An independent inspection took place in April 2018. It concluded that there  was some 
evidence of water ingress into the current ECU.  It said that the evidence wasnt compelling 
that the current condition was present from the point of supply. Had it been present  from the 
point of supply  it said it wouldve  expected  it to have materialised within  2,000 miles of use.
While I understand the points made  in the inspection report, the report dated 6 November  
2017, records the issue of the ECU  and at this time Miss V had driven the car less than 
2,000 miles. 
So, while I note the comments in the inspection  report, I find that the other evidence  in this 
complaint supports a conclusion that the issues with Miss Vs car were  present or developing 
at the point of supply  and that the attempted repair(s) wasnt successful. I note comments 
about other repairs having taken  place by third parties, but as I find the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply I find it fair that Close Brothers  remedy  this. 
Given the times Miss V has already returned  her car for repair I think  it fair she is allowed to 
reject the car.
When a car is rejected  we expect the car to be collected at no cost to the consumer and the 
finance agreement  to be cancelled with nothing further  owing. We would normally expect the 
deposit to be refunded  however I note in this case no deposit  has been recorded.
Had the car been of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply or if her request to return  the 
car had been  accepted in April 2018 she would  not have had to pay for the repairs  to the 
ECU and EGR valve and the investigations she undertook. Therefore I find it reasonable that 
these costs are refunded.
Ref: DRN18522153Miss V has also incurred other costs. The car was stored for a period of time for which 
charges were made and she then had to have the car recovered  from storage to prevent 
further costs accruing. Given  the circumstances of this case I think it fair these costs are 
refunded.
Miss V had to return her car on several  occasions and while  alternative transport was at 
times provided, I think the issues she experienced had a substantial impact  on her use and 
enjoyment of the car. Therefore I think it fair that she is refunded 50% of the rentals she paid 
up to November 2018. After this date Miss V didnt have use of the car and so I think  it fair 
that 100%  of rentals are refunded from this date.
The issues  with Miss Vs car have caused her inconvenience as she has had to have the car 
recovered and had to take it for investigation and repairs. Because of this I think 
compensation should be paid and I think the recommendation of £250 is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Vs complaint. Close  Brothers Limited, trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance should:
1.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay; 
2.collect the car at no further cost to Miss V; 
3.remove any adverse information  from Miss Vs credit file; 
4.refund  Miss V 50% of the repayments made  from the time the agreement  was taken out 
until the end of November 2018  (this is when the car went in to storage), and then 100% 
of the repayments  made from November 2018; 
5.refund  Miss V the cost to supply and fit the new ECU (Miss  V has sent a copy of an 
invoice for £1,661.30  which covers  the costs  of replacing the ECU and EGR. Given  the 
situation I think the full cost of this should be refunded); 
6.refund  Miss V the cost of the engineers reports (invoices have been provided from 
November 2017 for £87 and April 2018  for £107.94); 
7.refund  Miss V the storage costs  of the car while shes  been unable to use it (invoice has 
been provided for £500.40) along  with the cost of recovering the car to prevent further 
costs being incurred (invoice  has been provided  for £84);  and
8.pay Miss V £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
repeated return of the car and for having  to arrange  for the fault to be repaired herself.
Items 4, 5, 6 and 7 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement.
If Close Brothers considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss V how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss V 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1852215