K820x#14complaint
Mr and Miss M are unhappy  with the way that Aviva Insurance  Limited dealt with their home  
insurance claim for repairs and reinstatement  following  the discovery of leaking pipework 
under their floor.
background
In May 2017  when  Mr M was in the process  of installing a new staircase  to the cellar,  he 
discovered that the bottom of it was rotted  from being soaked in water.  He made  a claim to 
Aviva who sent out specialist companies  who advised that there was no subsidence  but that 
the problem was due to badly leaking pipes. Aviva arranged for estimates for repair  and the 
work started  in August  2017. The repairs to the drains  were  completed but Mr M was 
unhappy with the contractors method of work,  particularly with regard to health and safety. It 
was agreed through the loss adjuster that new contractors would be brought in to carry out 
the reinstatement work, which included refitting of the staircase and the downstairs toilet.  
It took some time to review the new quotes  for the job. The toilet itself was reinstated but the 
further reinstatement works didnt get under  way until March  2018. Mr M was unhappy  that a 
built in cupboard and shed were  destroyed in the course of doing  the work. And that he 
carried out some work to replace  these and wasnt paid for his time in doing so. Aviva 
agreed that the service had been poor in some  respects and agreed to appoint new loss 
adjusters and offered a payment of £400 as compensation.  Mr and Miss M werent  happy  
with that.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Aviva had acted reasonably and in 
particular that its offer of compensation was fair.
Mr and Miss M didnt agree with this - they didnt think all their complaints had been  
addressed. 
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
I should clarify that in this decision I can only deal with the complaints reported to and/or 
dealt with by Aviva in its final response letter of 27 April 2018. Issues like the removal of the 
downstairs toilet,  payments to the new contactor not being  made  and any ongoing  problems 
with damp  or the work have to be raised  as new complaints to Aviva. This is because under 
our rules  complaints have  to be raised first of all with the business and it has to be given a 
chance to reply. The only exceptions to this are where the business has agreed that we can 
look at a complaint  that hasnt been formally  raised with it. In this case  Aviva hasnt agreed 
that we can do that.
staircase
Mr M is a carpenter by trade. The staircase  to the cellar had to be remade  and because  it 
was narrow had to be bespoke. Mr M designed  and made the staircase, but Aviva  only paid 
Ref: DRN17727062for the materials, not his time. Mr M points out that if he hadnt done  this Aviva would have 
had to pay for a contractor to do it. I note that this claim arose because Mr M was in the 
process of installing a new staircase  any way. And whilst  I appreciate that Aviva was liable 
for the cost of the staircase, I wouldnt normally expect  an insurer  to pay for its policyholders  
time where  they have chosen to carry out work themselves. In view of the specialist nature 
of the work I think it unlikely that Mr M would have  agreed for Avivas contractors to build the 
staircase.
first contractor  health and safety and other issues
Mr and Miss M were unhappy  that the first contractors didnt work to a safe standard. They 
complained in particular that the contractors  demolished a shed and left timber  lying around 
with nails sticking out. Also they demolished  an internal  cupboard and left a hole in the floor 
which Mr M had to ask be covered. Further, one of the workmen badly cut himself  on one of 
the nails.
Our investigator said that the contractors' adherence to a proper health and safety scheme 
wasnt within our remit to consider. That is in part true. We have no power to tell contractors 
to have a proper health and safety  scheme in place. But where any failures impacted Mr and 
Miss M I can take that into account.  Fortunately  they suffered no injury themselves and I 
cant award compensation for what might  have happened but I have taken into account  the 
inconvenience that this caused  them.
As for the demolition  of the cupboard, I dont know if it could have been reused  but the scope 
required its removal. Mr M will be aware of the difficulty  in putting back  such  items. The 
same applies  to the shed.  It would  have been  good  practice to advise Mr and Miss M what  
they were doing  and I take it into account  as an example of poor service.
Again I understand that Mr M himself designed  the replacements and wasnt paid for his 
time. I note that he felt pressurised  by the loss adjusters to do this. But I do note that he very 
carefully oversaw the contractors when they fitted  the staircase. I think it wasnt  
unreasonable in light of his expertise and the fact that it was his house to have Mr M design 
the new cupboard.  Again  Aviva could  have offered its contractors to do this but I doubt that 
this would have  been satisfactory to either party. And as for Mr M  not being paid for his time 
I refer to my earlier comments concerning the staircase.
Mr and Miss M also complained that the contractors didnt  consider the storage of items 
following the removal of the cupboard and shed. Again this was a question of lack of 
communication and I can understand their annoyance in this respect.
delays in appointing a new contractor
Once the old contractor left the job in late August 2017, Aviva had to get a new contractor to 
quote for the reinstatement work. And this did take a very long time. Aviva queried the quote 
once received but there were long delays in approving it, which  essentially took until early  
January 2018.  The work  didnt get under  way again  until early March.  I agree that this was 
unsatisfactory and would have caused  a good deal of inconvenience  to Mr and Miss M. I 
understand that during  this time they had to do a lot of chasing phone  calls
Ref: DRN17727063compensation offered
Following a meeting  at the property between  Mr and Miss M, the contractors  and the loss 
adjusters, they were  unhappy that a representative from Aviva didnt attend. It was a matter 
for Aviva how it dealt with Mr and Miss Ms complaints so whilst I understand that they felt 
Aviva should  have sent a representative  to the meeting in March 2018  I dont  feel that it 
should be criticised  for not doing  so. The meeting  was about progressing the claim and 
Aviva had delegated its authority to the loss adjusters. Ive noted  moreover  that the 
representative did later attend the property and subsequently Aviva wrote to Mr and Miss M 
offering £400  compensation.  It also agreed to appoint new loss adjusters.
Overall I think  that Aviva  s offer, to change  the loss adjusters  and to pay Mr and Miss M 
£400 was fair and reasonable.  I say this in light of awards we have made  in similar cases.  
And I emphasise that this decision doesnt  take into account complaints not previously raised  
with Aviva as Ive set out above.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1772706