K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, acted irresponsibly 
when it increased  his credit card limit.
background
Mr S took out a Barclaycard  in 2014.  His credit  limit at that time was £5,000, but he 
requested that this be increased to £7,000 the following year and this was approved, as was 
his request to reduce it to £4,500 at the end of 2015.  He then applied for two further  
increases in 2016  the first to £6,000, and then to £10,000.
In 2019, Mr S complained that these  increases were irresponsible  lending when considering  
his salary and the length of time it would take him to repay the balance. He asked  for the 
debt to be reviewed and for Barclaycard  to propose  a way of writing  off a proportion of it.
Barclaycard said it had increased  Mr Ss credit limit as his account  was being managed 
satisfactorily and there was no adverse  information  on his credit  file. It didnt agree that it had 
acted irresponsibly and whilst it was aware of Mr Ss concerns about  the length  of time it 
would take to fully repay  his balance, it was unable to reduce it.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think Barclaycard had increased 
Mr Ss credit  limit irresponsibly as his statements showed hed managed his account well. 
Mr S had made the requests  to increase his limit and the investigator  thought  Barclays  had 
acted reasonably when agreeing to them. He said that Mr S had had the benefit of the 
spending on his card, so didnt think Barclaycard should be required to write off all or part of 
the balance. The investigator accepted that Barclaycard  had referred to the wrong amount 
for Mr Ss salary  in its final response  letter, but said this had been  based on a later 
application hed made for another card.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he had a level of borrowing that was 
too high for his income. Most months he was paying the minimum payment and this didnt 
mean he could manage a larger  limit. He said the debt should be repayable in a reasonable 
time frame and his balance would take six years  to repay, which he feels  is particularly 
intensive. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information provided, I can see that each  time Barclaycard made a change to 
Mr Ss credit  limit; this had been  at his request.  And in considering whether to agree to these 
requests both to increase and decrease  the available  limit, Barclaycard  took into account 
how Mr S had been managing his account  as well as looking at the information recorded on 
his credit history at the time.
Mr Ss statement  history  shows  that he often chose  to pay the minimum required repayment  
by direct debit. However, Mr S felt that he wanted to decrease his credit limit at the end of 
2015 and there was a time that Mr S was able to fully repay his balance  in 2016. He wasnt  
close to his existing  limit when he asked for his limit to be increased to £10,000. 
Ref: DRN14082662I do appreciate what Mr S has said about  the level of his income  in relation to his credit limit, 
but I can see that this was noted  at the times  he requested the increases to be taken  into 
consideration as part of Barclaycards decision to agree to his request. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly when it 
agreed to Mr Ss requests to change  his credit limit.
I also understand that Barclaycard agreed  a repayment arrangement with Mr S which  meant 
that it would  reduce his monthly payments and the interest rate on his balance for 12 
months, if he kept up to date with the payments. Mr S should contact Barclaycard if he has 
concerns about  this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1408266