K820x#14complaint
Mr E makes  a number of complaints about how Barclays Bank UK Plc has dealt with various 
account problems  hes experienced.
background
Mr E says Barclays  blocked his account  without telling him, cancelled two standing  orders  
and didnt send  him account statements for about  three months. He also says Barclays  
hasnt replied to his calls and letters and hasnt actioned his request to transfer about 
£47,000 out of his account. Mr E says Barclays actions have caused him stress  and financial  
loss and it should pay him at least £750  compensation.  He also says that he has difficulty 
using the telephone and lost out on interest as a result of Barclays  actions.
Barclays says it applied  account blocks in early 2017 that were removed in 2018.  It says 
Mr E attempted a payment in February 2018 that was placed on hold by its fraud systems. 
Barclays says it didnt  send account statements as there was no account activity  at that time 
and cant provide any information  about  why the standing orders  were cancelled. Barclays  
accepts Mr E was caused inconvenience  by its fraud systems and has paid £150 
compensation.
Mr E brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  Barclays  had dealt fairly with it 
by paying a fair and reasonable amount of compensation.  The investigator didnt think  it 
possible to say why the standing order had been cancelled. He thought  Barclays  hadnt 
made a mistake by not sending account statements when there wasnt any account activity. 
He also thought that Barclays had communicated with Mr E but it hadnt replied to one letter 
which didnt justify compensation. The investigator  thought that Mr E had written to Barclays 
in 2018 when the transfer was blocked  and not called it, which meant  it likely  that the 
transfer was cancelled. 
The investigator provided Mr E with information  about how he could close  his account.
Mr E doesnt  accept that view and says the investigator has defended Barclays  position. He 
says he cant visit a Barclays  branch and cant  contact it by telephone. Mr E says hes lost 
out due to the exchange rate differences over the last few years  and the increase in inflation 
and should be compensated  for that as well in addition to the interest hes also lost out on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr E will be disappointed  by my decision and I hope 
he and Barclays can work together to find a solution  to close the account. I also make it clear  
that I think the investigator has provided Mr E with a possible  solution as I appreciate Mr E 
will find it difficult to attend a Barclays branch. But I cant  see that Mr E has attempted  to use 
that information to try and close the account.
I think the main part of Mr Es complaint is the security blocks that have been applied to his 
account that meant the transfer of his money  in February 2018 didnt take place.  I make  it 
clear that I accept this is Mr Es money but I also accept that banks and building societies 
have a duty to prevent possible fraud and protect their customers money.  I appreciate that 
fraud and security measures can cause  customers inconvenience and I have no doubt  that 
was the case  here. But Im satisfied that Barclays has explained its position to Mr E and paid 
Ref: DRN10552412him what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. I think  that payment of 
£150 fairly reflects the level of inconvenience Mr E was caused.
I appreciate that the transaction wasnt completed. And I think that was due to Mr E writing to 
Barclays confirming the transaction  was genuine rather  than calling it. I appreciate Mr Es 
difficulties in using  the telephone but I can see that hes been able to call Barclays in the 
past. So I dont  think Barclays made  a mistake  in those circumstances by cancelling  the 
transaction.
I dont think Barclays made a mistake in not sending account statements when there wasnt  
any account activity.  And I also dont  think Barclays  ignored Mr Es letters or calls with the 
exception of one. I also agree  with the investigator  that its not clear why the standing  orders 
were cancelled and so in those circumstances  I cant  fairly conclude Barclays  made a 
mistake.
Overall I accept Mr E will remain  unhappy with my view. As I dont think  Barclays  is 
responsible for the account not being closed  or the money being  able to be transferred, I 
cant fairly order it to compensate Mr E for the loss of interest,  inflation  or exchange rate 
losses. I also think this brings  an end to what we, in trying to resolve this complaint 
informally, can do. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1055241