K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Miss D1 and Miss D2 say Santander  UK Plc (at the time Abbey National) mis-sold 
them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss D1 and Miss D2 case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss D1 and Miss D2 say that there was no mention of MPPI  at all when they applied for 
their mortgage  so it mustve been added without them knowing. Santander doesnt 
have all the paperwork from the time, but it has provided information that shows that its 
sales process at the time presented the MPPI as an optional product, and gained  proper 
consent to take out the policy. I havent  seen anything to suggest  that Santander did 
anything differently when it sold Miss D1 and Miss D2 their policy, so I think  its likely 
Santander made it clear that Miss D1 and Miss D2 didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
that they chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant  remember this 
as it was so long ago.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Miss D1 and Miss D2 so it had to check that the 
MPPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example they werent  affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss D1 and Miss D2 about the MPPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
This means Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Miss D1 
and Miss D2.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Miss D1 and Miss D2 because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss D1 and Miss D2 about  that. Because  Santander  
didnt tell Miss D1 and Miss D2, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss D1 and Miss D2 have  said - but these points  dont 
change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN11767362what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Miss D1 and Miss D2 any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  Santander should  also pay back  to Miss D1 
and Miss D2 any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Miss D1 and Miss D2 the extra they paid each month  because  
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander 
should also pay Miss D1 and Miss D2 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss D1 and Miss D2 can claim back the tax if they dont  
pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Miss D1 and Miss D2.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss D1 and Miss D2 any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D1 and Miss 
D2 to accept or reject  my decision before 15 May 2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1176736