K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited  declined his claim on his motor trade policy
background
Mr Ps business premises were broken into while he was on holiday.  On his return he 
noticed three vehicles  and some  tools had been stolen.  He reported the theft to the police 
and made  a claim to Ageas.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to look into what happened. The loss adjuster  said the 
intruders entered  the property by forcing a side door. The report added that while  inside the 
intruders broke into a locked tool room and found  the controller for the front roller shutter  
door, and the keys to Mr Ps car which were kept in a drawer.
Ageas agreed  to pay Mr Ps claim for the two motorbikes, and the stolen tools.  But it said it 
wasnt paying the claim for his car, because he hadnt met all the security  conditions of the 
policy. It said the policy required  Mr P to use a manufacturers standard recommended  
locking device on the propertys shutter  door and he hadnt done that. It also said the policy  
required Mr P to keep the cars keys in a locked safe or cabinet. 
Unhappy with Ageas decision, Mr P complained to us. He said the keys were  in a locked 
cash tin in a locked room. He also said there wasnt a facility to fit a padlock to the roller  
shutter door and the mechanics of the gearing  system kept it closed. He also didnt think it 
was fair because his car would have been  covered if hed left it outside. 
Ageas said Mr P not complying with the conditions was material to his car being  stolen. 
Our investigator looked into this complaint, and didnt think Ageas was acting fairly or 
reasonably when declining the claim.  He didnt think Ageas had shown what  the 
manufacturers standard locking device was. And he thought that the keys being kept in a 
locked room was sufficient. He said Ageas should pay Mr Ps claim.
Ageas didnt agree. It thought was right to turn down  Mr Ps claim, so asked  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps policy say that in order  for the policyholder to be covered 
for theft,  the propertys roller shutter  door needs  to have  a manufacturers standard locking 
device. 
Ageas said the shutter on Mr Ps property  wasnt  locked  with a manufacturers  standard 
locking device. It paid Mr Ps claim for stolen tools and the two motorbikes, because it didnt 
think him not meeting this condition had any effect  on them  being  stolen. This is because its 
satisfied the intruders could have taken  the tools and two motorbikes out of the side door 
they came  in from. But Ageas said that if the roller shutter had been fitted with the correct 
lock, its unlikely the thieves would have  been able to steal  Mr Ps car.
Ref: DRN12690782In order for Ageas  to rely on this condition Id expect  it to be able to show what the 
manufacturers standard locking device is for Mr Ps shutter door. As it hasnt evidenced this, 
I dont think its shown  Mr P didnt comply with the condition. So, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim for this reason.
The policy documents also say Mr P wont be covered for any theft unless his car keys are 
kept in a locked safe or cabinet or removed from the premises.  Ageas has said that Mr Ps 
keys werent kept in either a locked  safe or cabinet   they were  kept in a drawer. Mr P later 
said the keys to his car were kept in the drawers  of a locked cabinet. But he initially said the 
keys were in a drawer in a locked tool room. So, I think  its reasonable for Ageas to rely on 
that initial notification  of the theft,  which makes no mention of the keys being  in a locked 
cabinet. 
Mr Ps also provided us with a picture  of the locked cash tin he said he kept the keys in. 
Ageas said he told the loss adjuster  they were in a drawer and didnt mention the cash tin. It 
would have been helpful if the loss adjuster had provided a photo of where  Mr P said he kept 
the keys, given Ageas has relied  on this to turn down the claim, but I dont think  that matters 
to the outcome of this complaint. 
If the keys werent  in a locked safe or cabinet  or removed from the premises  Mr Ps claim 
isnt covered when  strictly  applying the terms of the policy. But I also need to consider whats  
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
When deciding whether its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a condition of the policy to 
turn down a claim  we think  its fair and reasonable to consider whether the breach of the 
condition would have  contributed to the loss. While I accept that the key being in a locked 
safe might  have made a difference, Im not persuaded its most likely that the key not being 
in a locked cabinet made  any difference at all. And Ive set out my reasons for thinking this 
below. 
The policy document doesnt define a cabinet.  So an everyday interpretation of a cabinet  is a 
cupboard with shelves or doors.  Mr P kept his keys is a locked tool room, which the thieves 
managed to force entry into. There doesnt  seem to be any dispute  that the tool room was 
locked. And Ive seen  pictures of the room and the lock this would appear  to be as secure,  if 
not more so, than a locked cabinet. 
Ageas said keeping the keys in a locked tool room,  would  have  provided  an incentive for the 
intruders to enter. But I dont think its reasonable to say a locked room provided any more or 
less an incentive  to break into than a locked cabinet as both are likely to contain  valuables.
Taking into account the circumstances of the theft - a violent and forcible entry   Im not 
persuaded that keeping  the keys in a locked cabinet would have been more  secure  than 
keeping them in a locked room as the thieves were able to break  through the locks  to get 
into the building and the tool room.  So Im not persuaded  the keys not being in a locked 
cabinet contributed  to the loss of his car. 
I dont think it would  produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this particular case  if I 
allowed Ageas  to rely on this term to decline Mr Ps claim for this car. It follows that I think 
its fair and reasonable for Ageas  to pay Mr Ps claim for the loss of his car. And, because 
hes been without  the use of that money  it should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 
8% a year from the date of the theft to the date it makes payment.
Ref: DRN12690783my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr Ps claim for his stolen  car subject to any limits and excesses on the policy. It should add 
simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% per year, from the date of the theft, to the date it 
makes payment1.
Ageas should  do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ps accepted my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1269078