K820x#14complaint 
Miss B says that the used  car she acquired  via a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse 
Limited was misrepresented to her and not of satisfactory quality.
background 
In September  2014  Miss B acquired  a used car via a four year hire purchase agreement  with 
Black Horse.  The car was around five years  old and had a mileage of 18,000.
In the summer of 2018 Miss B was considering selling the car and says a friend of hers 
inspected it. They pointed  out to Miss B that the car had previously  been  repaired. Miss B 
then made  contact with the cars  previous owners  and was informed that in September  
2013 it had sustained minor damage to the passenger  door which had been repaired. The 
damage had been  repaired at a manufacturers approved garage.
Miss B complained to the dealership that had supplied the car. It said that due to the length 
of time shed been in possession of the car it was unable to assist  her. Miss B complained 
to Black Horse.
Black Horse  said there was no evidence  that the damage to the cars  door had 
compromised the quality of the car. It said that the car had sustained  only minor damage  
and as Miss B had been able to use it for four years  without problems and covering 42,000 
miles it didnt think  the dealership had acted unfairly.
Miss B was unhappy about Black  Horses decision and complained to us. She said the car 
had been misrepresented  to her as shed asked the salesman if the car had been repaired 
or been in any accidents and been told no. Miss B said if shed  known about  the damage  
to the door she wouldnt have  bought  the car. She said a car that hadnt  been in accident  
was very important to her due to her having  been involved in two serious  car accidents in 
the past which had resulted in Miss B sustaining injuries. She had been  affected 
psychologically and was very anxious  about  feeling safe in a car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  He said 
Miss B had asked Is there any history of repair or accident (about this car) I should know 
about? and the salesman  had said no. The investigator said he thought  this question was 
open to interpretation as whether the query  was about significant repairs/accidents rather  
than any minor or cosmetic repairs. The investigator  said it was unlikely the dealership 
wouldve been aware of the importance of this question to Miss B so he didnt  think it was 
fair to say the dealership had misrepresented the car when answering  in the negative.  He 
also said that after finding out the car had sustained some damage  Miss B had continued to 
drive it so had apparently  felt confident  in doing so.
Miss B was unhappy about the investigators view and said that the dealership knew  her 
and her situation so wouldnt have misinterpreted her question. She said that the dealership 
knew about the damage when she had phoned and complained, but told her that it didnt 
need to report it to her.
As the parties  werent able to reach  an agreement  this complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines. 
Ref: DRN19784382It was agreed that this car had sustained some minor  damage  to a door in September  2013 
that required repair. From the details  given of the accident (it struck a bollard  or parking 
barrier in a car park at low speed) it seemed likely that the damage  would  have been  to the 
paintwork and possibly a dent to the door. The repair was carried out by an approved 
garage.
Miss B said the repair was brought to her attention by a friend. Id seen that Miss B had 
driven the car for four years and that it had been  inspected for MOTs and services  without 
anyone noticing  or raising the repair to the door.  So I thought it was reasonable to say that 
the repair was to a good standard. I hadnt  seen any evidence that would suggest this 
repair was noticeable,  poorly done  or that it had any impact on the running of the car.
As Miss B had acquired the car in 2014 this transaction was covered by the Sales of Goods 
Act 1979 (The Act)  which states  that the goods  must be of satisfactory quality and fit for 
purpose. Satisfactory quality takes  into account  the age and mileage of the car. I thought  
most people  wouldnt  be surprised if a five year old car had received cosmetic repairs  so I 
was satisfied a repair of this nature  wouldnt impact  on the quality of the car and that at the 
point of sale the car had been  of satisfactory  quality.
Miss B said that shed  specifically asked about repairs and accidents and that if shed 
known the truth about the car shed never have bought it and that she had suffered due to 
the false representation of the state of the car by the garage.  She also said the garage 
knew her personal history and so wouldve understood the importance  of why shed asked 
the question that she had.
The dealership said that due to the passage  of time it wasnt  able to provide any recall of 
events. I wasnt surprised  that the dealership wasnt able to assist about what was said at 
the time Miss B took out the hire purchase agreement.
For me to be satisfied  that the dealership had misrepresented the car to Miss B I wouldve 
needed to be satisfied  an untrue or misleading  statement  had been  made  to Miss B and that 
this statement had induced Miss B to enter into the agreement  to buy the car.
I appreciated why it was important for Miss B to have a car that hadnt been involved in an 
accident but I also thought her circumstances were  very personal  to her. I thought  most 
people wouldnt have  had the same concern. As Id said,  minor damage to car doors 
wasnt unusual over time so if repaired correctly  I didnt  think it would affect the quality of 
the vehicle. So I thought  the question shed asked  was very general.  I didnt think it was 
unreasonable of the investigator  to have said that the dealership may not have thought 
she was asking about such a minor repair.
However, I had no evidence that the dealership had been aware  the car had been  
repaired. Id seen that the car had been fixed at a different dealership around a year 
before Miss B acquired it and that there were no condition alerts  to be found  if data on the 
car had been  checked. Miss B said that when she complained  about  the car to the 
dealership she was told by the manager  that he didnt have to tell you anything if it is under 
four panels  in question. But I didnt  accept this statement meant he was acknowledging the 
dealership knew  about the damage. This call was made nearly four years  after Miss B had 
acquired the car and I thought it was very unlikely anyone at the dealership  would recall  this 
particular transaction.  I thought this comment was more likely to be a general one and it 
would be unreasonable for me to take it as anything more  meaningful.
Ref: DRN19784383So looking  at the evidence I didnt intend to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I was satisfied the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and I didnt have enough evidence to 
think the car had been misrepresented to her. I wasnt satisfied that the dealership had 
been aware of the repair  to the car.
Neither Miss B nor Black Horse has commented  on my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to look again  at my provisional decision I havent changed my 
mind. For the reasons  given above  Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision 28 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1978438