K821x#15complaint
Ms M says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four short-term high-cost loans MYJAR  provided to Ms M between
June 2017 and January  2018.  They varied  in term from three to six months. This is a 
summary of Ms Ms lending history from MYJAR.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 20/06/2017 12/09/2017 400
2 12/09/2017 28/01/2018 600
3 28/01/2018 29/01/2018 425
4 29/01/2018 27/07/2018 900
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ms complaint in part and thought  loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. MYJAR disagreed  so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN19540342I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
There was nothing to indicate MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. I 
think it carried out proportionate checks looking at affordability and creditworthiness, and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make 
different lending decisions. So I dont  think MYJAR was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Ms M. 
However, by loan 4 I think there were indications that Ms M was struggling to repay  her 
loans. And so MYJAR ought to have  realised that to continue to lend to Ms M at this point in 
time might be harmful. I say this because  by then she had on three occasions taken out 
another loan on the same  day as repaying her previous  loan. And loan 4 was for significantly 
more than her previous  loans. 
At this point I think MYJAR ought  to have realised Ms M was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. MYJAR ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Ms M was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Ms Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
So I think MYJAR was wrong  to give loan 4 to Ms M.
  
MYJARs response to the adjudicators findings  asks for more information  on her findings  
and for confirmation  that its comprehensive business file was reviewed. It was. Its business  
file provided a full explanation on the inputs  and methods it used to decide if each loan was 
affordable, but I would remind  it of its obligation, as set out previously, to establish whether 
Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And as Ive explained,  I think  Ms Ms 
pattern of borrowing evidenced  this was unlikely to be the case  by loan 4.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4, and MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms M paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Ms Ms credit file.
Ref: DRN19540343 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give
Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ms complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Ms M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept
or reject my decision before 27 February  2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1954034