K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt refund  her for a payment 
taken from her account in August 2017 which she hadnt authorised.
background
Miss A noticed a large payment had been  made  from her current  account and contacted 
NatWest. The payment was £720  for an online storage  service  (Ill call D) often  used by 
businesses but also by personal  customers. She complained direct  to the service company 
and they refunded her £720 on 22 August 2018.
She also wanted NatWest  to refund  her for a payment of £720 which  had been  taken  from 
her account  on 21 August  2017. NatWest didnt  think  this was fraud and told Miss A she 
must have  signed  up for a service  by subscription.  They couldnt dispute this using the 
international card schemes chargeback process  as shed  come to them too late.
Miss A was unhappy  with this and brought  her complaint to the ombudsman service. She 
was distressed at getting emails from D even though she insisted she didnt have an account 
with them.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. She also tried to contact D with Miss As authority. 
This was difficult as D was only willing to provide  Miss A with information about her account. 
Miss A didnt want to have  anything to do with D. Having looked at how Miss A used her 
bank account,  our investigator  felt she must have authorised the initial payment  of £720. 
Miss A never had that much money  in her account  and would surely have noticed  losing  
such a large amount of money  in 2017  if shed never made the transaction.
Miss A disputed this outcome. Shed never signed up for any service with D and felt we 
should investigate  further. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly Miss A has raised  her complaint  against  NatWest and thats what  Im considering  
here. There are two bases for me to look at what NatWest did  were they right in thinking 
Miss A authorised the payment herself? And could they have done more to dispute the 
payment made in 2017?
What I cant do is investigate  who may have done  this if Miss A didnt. Our service has no 
relationship with D. I cant find out how the account was set up with them   only Miss A can 
do that. Shes the person  D thinks is their customer but shes been  unwilling to do this 
because of the anxiety this causes  her. I absolutely understand  this but this does inevitably 
limit what  we can find out. I also note Miss A initially did contact D as they refunded  her in 
August 2018 for the payment theyd  taken a few days earlier.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
Ref: DRN19429682bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the limited evidence  of the transactions,  
as well as what Miss A has told us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 29 November 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
The evidence shows D set up Miss As account  on 9 July 2017. They attempted  to 
take £720 three times in August  2017  before this was finally debited from her current 
account on 21 August  2017.
From  looking at Miss As account,  I can see she had limited funds which is why the 
earlier payments werent successful.
I also know Miss A logged into her account  using her mobile  just after this period in 
2017. Like our investigator, I find it difficult that she wouldnt have noticed her 
account was missing £720 at this time.
I dont think its necessarily the case the service Miss A signed up for was a business  
service. D offers a personal service to individuals as well. It is totally  feasible that she 
didnt mean to sign up to the service she bought but I dont think theres  any evidence 
this is something a fraudster did. As the contact  for the account is Miss As genuine 
email no fraudster would  gain from doing this.
When Miss A complained to NatWest, they explained they couldnt dispute  the 2017  
payment. Although  there  is a process  for disputing card payments direct  with 
merchants (like D), there  are time limits  that apply. Miss A contacted NatWest after 
that timescale had already expired. There was nothing else that NatWest could do to 
dispute this transaction.
NatWest didnt believe the transaction was fraudulent.  Ive also explained that I agree with 
them. I believe its likely Miss A signed up for this service. She may well have done  this by 
accident or didnt  realise shed done it. And whilst I sympathise with her about this, I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask NatWest  to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss As complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1942968