K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Chryson  Limited mis-managed the contracts for difference  
(CFD) trading account held in his self-invested  personal pension (SIPP).
background
In 2015 Mr B transferred  £250,000 from another pension plan into a new SIPP and 
appointed Chryson as discretionary  fund managers.  Trading began  in October 2015 and 
ended in January  2016  with the account  having a negative  balance.
I have issued three provisional  decisions  on this complaint.
The first concluded  that the firm had exceeded the agreed leverage limits on the account 
and hence the agreed  risk levels.  I said that if Mr B had been  made  aware of this he would 
have stopped trading.  The firm did not agree that the agreed leverage limit on the account 
had been exceeded.  It said the account  had been  managed on the basis of a maximum 
leverage of 5 times rather than 3 times.  It also pointed out that Mr B was aware  of how the 
account was performing  and there  was no evidence that Mr B would have stopped trading.   
Having considered the points the firm made I issued a second  provisional decision.  It 
remained my view that the agreed  leverage limit had been breached.  However, the fact that 
Mr B was prepared to carry on trading in the face of ever increasing losses  led me to 
conclude that the higher risk caused by the increased leverage  did not take the overall risk 
beyond that which Mr B was prepared to take.  
In light of the further arguments made by Mr B and a further re-examination of all of the 
evidence I decided to issue  a third provisional  decision.  This was issued on 12 December 
2019.  A  copy of the provisional  decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In summary  my revised provisional  conclusions were:
The maximum leverage on the account  should  have been limited to three times.  This 
maximum level was exceeded.  
However, there is a more  fundamental problem with the firms leverage measure which  is the 
way it is calculated.  The use of a leverage measure  based on cash balances is misleading.   
Its use gives a misleading  impression of the risks associated with the account.  So the firm 
operated Mr Bs account without any effective risk controls in place.
Similarly calculating performance  figures  based  on cash balances is also misleading.  On 
this way of presenting performance data, a loss making account  can be presented  as having  
a positive performance.
The firms promotional material explains how the data is calculated  but not in a way that is 
clear, fair and not misleading.  The positive performance data is presented early in the 
document with the explanation of the calculation provided at the very end of the document.
I considered that if these  two factors had been  made clear to Mr B he would not have 
opened the account and the losses he suffered would have been  avoided.
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision.   He made  the following main points:
Ref: DRN12647772The firms  risk controls  and apparently impressive  performance record were  key 
factors in him deciding to invest with the firm.
The maximum gearing of three  times was clearly  highlighted at his first meeting with 
the firm.  He was told the firm would complete parts  of the form and so he went  
ahead on the assumption that gearing would be three times.
He agrees that the firms concentration on cash balances is misleading. 
He knew the account was high risk but went ahead  on the basis  that effective risk 
controls were in place.
The firm didnt agree  and made  the following points:
Mr B was an experienced,  knowledgeable,  high net worth investor who was seeking 
to invest in a high risk strategy.  Mr  B works in financial  services and was being  
advised by an IFA firm.  It is reasonable to assume that he knew  how the account 
worked and how the figures were presented.  
It accepts  that earlier  brochures  said a maximum leverage of three times would be 
used for SIPP  accounts.  However,  this did not apply to Mr Bs account.  It is clearly  
stated within the application form that should the maximum leverage box not be 
completed by the client then the firm would assume  a maximum leverage of five 
times.  Mr B would have  appreciated  the consequences of not completing this box.  
It is also clearly  stated  within the firms terms and conditions  that it has the authority 
to change the terms of management  at its discretion.  A clause which Mr B would 
have been aware of.  
Mr B has highlighted a number of complaints about the firm upheld by this service.  
However, this service has also rejected complaints.  Given  Mr Bs background, his is 
not a typical complaint.   
Mr B was well aware of payments to introducers and he personally benefitted from 
these payments.  
As a result  of his discussions with the firm as well as the on line access available to 
him and his adviser he was well aware of what was happening to his account.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The first two provisional decisions largely  dealt with the leverage on the account  whether 
the agreed maximum level was three or five and whether the maximum leverage had been 
exceeded.  However, as set out above my concerns are not now with the precise level of the 
gearing but are more  fundamental  in nature.  
Ref: DRN12647773CFD trading  is a high risk activity and effective risk controls are, or should  be, a key factor in 
an investors decision to appoint a CFD manager.   Mr B has said this was a key factor  in his 
decision to appoint the firm to manage his account   and this seems plausible.
However, for the reasons  set out above I consider that a risk control measure based on the 
cash value of the account is fundamentally  flawed.  Below is the explanation contained in my 
provisional decision:      
For example, an account with a £100 cash balance, on the firms risk limit, would support a 
maximum position of 3 times the cash balance - so £300.    
If that position were  to fall in value by 25%,  the market value would fall to £225.  The loss 
would not be crystallised and so the cash balance would still be £100.  So, on the firms risk 
measure the risk, as measured by leverage,  would fall from 3 times  to 2.25 times.
The idea that a 25% fall in the value of a leveraged position would lower the risk is wrong.  
Whilst the cash value  of the account  might not change, the equity in the account, including 
the unrealised  losses  would  be £25.  If the position was closed  and the funds returned to the 
investor this is what he would get.  This  is the level of capital  supporting his trading.  
Leverage based  on net equity would be 9 times, a substantial increase from the initial  3 
times.  This  is an accurate reflection of the risk, which  after a 25% fall in the value  of the 
position would increase  substantially.  The idea that unrealised  losses need not be taken into 
account is simply wrong.
The firms response has not addressed  this conclusion, instead focussing  on whether the 
maximum gearing should have been  three  times or five times.  Whilst it remains  my view that 
the agreed maximum leverage on the account  was three times this is not the key issue.  The  
key issue being  the flawed risk control  measure  of the firm.  In the absence of arguments 
addressing this point  my conclusions are therefore  unchanged.  It remains my view that 
calculating leverage  on cash  balances is highly misleading and is of no practical use in terms 
of risk control.  
I set out in my provisional decision why I considered the way the firm calculated performance  
data was misleading.  The key part of the provisional decision is set out below:  
The firm also uses cash balances rather than equity  in calculating performance figures.  
Mr B has provided a copy of a promotional document for the CES from April 2015  which  he 
was provided with before becoming  a client of the firm.  This document sets out the monthly 
performance for the CES for the preceding six month period (to April 2015) and shows the 
cumulative performance  graphically.  Over the six month period the CES had apparently 
returned for investors just over 30%.  
At the very end of the document on a different page  to the performance data is a small block 
of text labelled Chryson  Performance Disclaimer.   This  said:
The performance published  shows the average change in a clients cash balance, traded  by 
Chryson for this month.  It includes all closed trades,  commission,  corporate actions and 
funding costs.
In my view this is highly  misleading.  It is based on the same  flawed assumption that in effect 
unrealised losses  can be ignored and are somehow less relevant than realised losses  or 
Ref: DRN12647774profits.  The  misleading  nature of this way of calculating performance  is clear from looking at 
Mr Bs account and how it was represented  by the firm.  
For example looking  at the account  summary  for Mr Bs account for 20 November 2015 
shows the following:
Cash    £246,016
Unrealised P&L  -£49,592
Net Equity    £196,424
The firms performance measure would  describe  this account as having  a small loss of 
around 1.5%  (based on an initial investment of £250,000).  The true performance figure is a 
loss of 21.5%.   Given the way the firm presented performance data it is quite possible that 
an account with what was, correctly calculated, a negative  performance could be shown as 
having a positive performance.
Again the firm has not put forward any arguments  to suggest this conclusion is wrong  so I 
have not been persuaded  to change my view on this.  For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision I am satisfied that the way the firm calculated and presented  
performance data is misleading.
The firms response largely deals with the issue of leverage and the knowledge and 
experience of Mr B.  I accept that Mr B, who has a professional background in financial  
services, has greater  knowledge and experience than a typical  retail investor.  It was this 
that led me to conclude  that a CFD trading account  was not, in principle, unsuitable for Mr B.
Mr B was also clearly aware of the poor performance of his account and in general terms the 
reasons for the poor performance  a small number of substantial long positions where the 
underlying shares  prices  continued to fall.  However, despite his professional  background, I 
am not persuaded that he understood the flaws  in the firms risk controls  or the misleading  
performance calculations.   In my view these are the key issues in this complaint rather  than 
the knowledge and experience of Mr B.   
Mr B has said that the firms apparently impressive investment performance and risk controls 
were key factors in his decision to open  the account.   I find this plausible.  
As I said earlier CFD trading is a high risk activity and as a result  risk controls will be a key 
factor in appointing a CFD manager.   I am satisfied that it is more  likely than not that if Mr B 
had known that the firms risk controls  were  flawed, he would not have traded with the firm.  
Past investment  performance is something that is generally highly important when deciding 
to appoint an investment  manager.  Performance data features prominently on the firms 
promotional material.  The firms method of calculating investment performance is 
misleading which renders  the firms historic performance data unreliable.  An investor  who 
understood the performance data was unreliable  would not place any great weight  on it 
when deciding whether to invest  or not.  So my conclusion is that if Mr B knew  the 
performance data was unreliable it is more likely than not that he would not have opened the 
account. 
For these reasons I consider the complaint should be upheld.  The correct remedy is to 
repay to Mr B the money lost trading.   The cash sums repaid to Mr B during the time the firm 
managed the account should be deducted from this figure.  To this sum should be added 
Ref: DRN12647775simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date the account  was closed to the date of 
payment.  I also consider  that losing such a substantial  sum of money would have been 
upsetting for Mr B and propose  to award him £500  to compensate  him for this.
my decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Chryson Limited 
pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Chryson Limited should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress  and/or 
inconvenience) plus any interest set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Chryson  Limited  pays Mr B the balance  plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Chryson 
Limited. It is unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision  and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr B may want to consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding  
whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12647776Provisional decision of 12 December 2019.
This is a very finely balanced case.  The firm didnt  manage the account  in the way it said it would  it 
was managed  with higher leverage than agreed.  Higher  leverage equates to a higher than agreed 
level of risk.  However, Mr B understood the risks of CFD trading and showed  no inclination to stop 
trading.  Instead  he seemed  to have remained confident that the firm could turn things around and 
recover his losses.  He  explicitly accepted the risk that he could lose the entirety of his investment.
Given how finely  balanced  this case is, I have reviewed all the evidence and arguments  afresh.
It remains my view that this was a suitable account for Mr B.  It was consistent with his willingness  to 
take a very high level of risk.  He had the knowledge and experience to appreciate  the risks.   Mr B 
had substantial  other pension assets such that the amount invested represented  a modest 
percentage of his overall pension assets.  The account was consistent with his financial 
circumstances.  
Mr B entrusted £250,000 to the firm to manage.  It  managed to lose the entirety of this sum (and 
more) in the space of a few weeks.  An  investor who suffers such a loss in such a short period will, 
quite reasonably, suspect that the firm has done something wrong  or been negligent in managing  his 
account.
I am satisfied  that the firm did not manage the account in the way it said it would.  It said it would limit 
leverage for a SIPP account to 3 times  but didnt.  The  firm has argued that because  Mr B didnt 
specify a particular limit on the account opening form then the leverage defaulted to 5 times.  
I dont accept this argument.   However,  having  considered the issue of leverage and in particular how 
the firm calculate leverage I dont think the precise  level is the key issue.  I  think there is a 
fundamental problem with how the firm define and use the measure of leverage and hence risk. 
The firm has sometimes referred to leverage and sometimes gearing.  However,  these terms in the 
context of this complaint  have the same  meaning.
Mr B was provided with a Chryson  Evolution Strategy  (CES) fact sheet.   
This said the following  about  the CES:
Chryson offers investors a discretionary management service.  This document  refers  to the Chryson 
Evolution Strategy ('CES'). Trading the CES is facilitated using Contracts for Differences (CFDs). 
These are derivatives whose value behaves in the same  way as the underlying equities.
The CES Is suited to clients who have  a high risk tolerance where the investment represents a small 
part of an overall investment strategy.
The operation of the CES is based upon technical and fundamental analysis  of underlying equities 
and market trends. A target universe of stocks from the FTSE 100 is reviewed  on an ongoing basis to 
identify equities which fulfil criteria based on fundamentals  and trends.  
Positions are taken where the stocks are viewed as having clear  technical  signals, whether bullish 
(buy) or bearish (sell).
Positions are traded  frequently therefore there can be a high number of trades per account. Such 
strategies can incur  a comparatively high level of charges. The frequency  is high as we target regular 
small profits to maximise  the return on client's accounts, but equally important  to manage risk. 
Gearing enables  us to benefit from small movements in the underlying  stock.  
Profit is not guaranteed and positions could also be subject to significant losses.
Ref: DRN12647777The positions  taken can be heavily weighted long or short  in the market  based on our interpretation  of 
market sentiment and economic data.
The fact sheet  said the following in terms of risk mitigation: 
Chryson act to mitigate risk as follows:- 
Asset Allocation Procedures inside  Chryson revolve  around trade selection  and ongoing monitoring of 
key factors. The investment philosophy is to identify targets within the FTSE100 stocks.  
Trading CFDs are a leveraged product and are high risk. To manage risk, our trading accounts open 
positions based on a target of 3 times  gearing  on their initial deposit at the close each evening,  and 
the account value thereafter.  NOTE for SIPP accounts our maximum initial gearing in 3 times.
(Other Chryson  documents  refer to gearing of 5 times)  
The strategy is vague  and doesnt really amount to a strategy  at all.  All investors are told is that the 
firm would trade CFDs in large  FTSE  100 stocks.  Trades would be selected based on a mix of 
technical and fundamental research.  The  trading style would be very active  and result in relatively 
high commission charges.   In my view the account was essentially intended  to generate returns by 
speculating in short term share price movements.  
So in terms of managing  risk the only real control is the leverage limit.  As the only risk measure in 
place the leverage limit is clearly a critical factor  in how the account should have been managed.  
The account  opening form had a box for account holders to specify  a leverage level.  It said that if no 
figure was specified then a default level of 5 times would  apply.  Mr B did not specify  a level of 
leverage.  He says he relied on the above fact sheet which said that for SIPP  accounts  a maximum  of 
3 times  leverage would apply.
 
What the firm has said on leverage  has been confused and contradictory.
It maintains that the maximum leverage  for the account was 5 times.  It  has also said the following in 
an email to this service  of 15 February 2017:
On leverage the key issue is the difference between the maximum leverage allowed on one overall 
position in a stock (3 times), against his account overall  leverage, which  per our application  form was 
5 times.
In an email to this service  of 12 February 2017 the firm said:  
Furthermore, I again state that the 3 times exposure was in each position, and that [the SIPP 
operator], by not stipulating the maximum  leverage  utilisation within  the application form,  allowed us a 
maximum of 5 times exposure.
In an email of 19 February 2016  to Mr B from the firms  compliance officer wrote: 
Turning to leverage  per trade as you have  requested I have reviewed  allocations and note that your 
account was traded  on the basis of opening positions at 4 times leverage. I have referenced your 
application form and note that the default leverage figure of 5 times was applicable to the account.
The firms compliance officer wrote the following in an email  to Mr B of 2 March 2016:
I have also referenced the Chryson  Limited brochure which was operative at the time of your account 
opening. Under  the section  Risk Mitigation it states  that positions can be opened based  on 3 times 
based upon the cash figure shown in the account.  It also states that market movement can take 
exposure beyond the 3 times.  I have  reviewed  your account and have concluded that the figure was 
not exceeded.'
Ref: DRN12647778Whilst the firm later maintained that the account  was managed on 5 times leverage this wasnt clear 
to the compliance  department who were  seemingly unaware of what  the correct  level of leverage 
should be.  The compliance officer seemed unable  to correctly calculate  the leverage  figure  at 
different times calculating the figure as 4 times  and 3 times.  The idea that a level of 5 times leverage 
can be applied  to the account on an overall basis but a maximum 3 times level can apply to the 
individual positions is simply wrong.   
The clear impression from the above emails is that whilst  featuring  prominently in the scheme  
documentation, the leverage on the account was not something the firm, in practice, paid much 
attention to.  
However, in my view there is a more fundamental problem with the firms leverage limits.  As  a 
measure of risk, the firms  definition of leverage   which is based on the cash balances of the account 
is, in my view fundamentally flawed.
For example, an account  with a £100 cash balance, on the firms  risk limit, would support a maximum 
position of 3 times the cash balance - so £300.    
If that position  were  to fall in value by 25%, the market value  would fall to £225.   The loss would  not 
be crystallised and so the cash balance  would still be £100.  So, on the firms  risk measure the risk, 
as measured by leverage, would fall from 3 times to 2.25 times.
The idea that a 25% fall in the value  of a leveraged  position  would lower the risk is wrong.  Whilst the 
cash value of the account  might not change, the equity  in the account, including  the unrealised  losses 
would be £25.  If the position  was closed and the funds returned to the investor  this is what he would 
get.  This  is the level of capital supporting his trading.   Leverage based on net equity would be 9 
times, a substantial  increase from the initial  3 times.  This is an accurate reflection of the risk, which  
after a 25% fall in the value of the position would  increase substantially.  The idea that unrealised 
losses need not be taken  into account is simply  wrong. 
The firm warns  that market movements may increase leverage beyond the agreed level.  As  
described above a fall in the value  of a position, unless  crystallised, would  lower the leverage (risk)  on 
the firms measure.  Conversely if the value of the above position rose by 25% (from  £300 to £375)  
then the leverage would increase to 3.75 times i.e. higher  than the 3 times limit.  On the firms  
measure this would therefore represent an increase in risk.
However, this ignores the unrealised profit on the account.  Correctly viewed, the equity in the 
account would benefit from the unrealised profit of £75 and rise to £175.  Comparing  this amount to 
the value of the position  gives  a correct leverage figure of 2.14 times.  This would  represent a 
lowering of the leverage and hence a lowering of the risk.
This shows the fundamental flaw in the firms leverage  calculations as a measure of the risk.  A 
positive market movement which actually lowers risk is portrayed  as increasing the risk.  On the other 
hand a position that has lost money and increased  the risk is portrayed as having lowered the risk.  
All CFD and spread  betting  platforms calculate the margin required on the basis on the net equity in 
an account rather than cash balances.  An unrealised loss is just as much  a loss as a realised  one.  
The cash balance  ignoring  unrealised losses is a notional  figure  and for example cannot  be withdrawn 
 only the net amount can be withdrawn.    
The firms reliance  on this flawed risk metric feeds into the way it presents performance data.       
The firm also uses cash balances rather than equity in calculating performance figures.  Mr  B has 
provided a copy of a promotional document for the CES from April 2015 which he was provided with 
before becoming a client of the firm.  This document sets out the monthly  performance for the CES for 
Ref: DRN12647779the preceding  six month period (to April 2015) and shows the cumulative performance graphically.  
Over the six month period the CES had apparently returned for investors  just over 30%.  
At the very end of the document on a different page to the performance data is a small  block of text 
labelled Chryson Performance Disclaimer.  This said:
The performance published shows the average change in a clients cash balance, traded by Chryson 
for this month.   It includes all closed  trades, commission, corporate actions and funding costs.
In my view this is highly misleading.  It  is based on the same flawed assumption that in effect 
unrealised losses can be ignored and are somehow less relevant  than realised losses or profits.  The 
misleading nature of this way of calculating  performance is clear from looking at Mr Bs account  and 
how it was represented by the firm.  
For example looking at the account summary  for Mr Bs account for 20 November 2015 shows the 
following:
Cash    £246,016
Unrealised P&L  -£49,592
Net Equity   £196,424
The firms performance measure would describe this account as having a small loss of around 1.5% 
(based on an initial investment of £250,000).  The true performance figure  is a loss of 21.5%.  Given 
the way the firm presented  performance data it is quite possible that an account with what was, 
correctly calculated, a negative performance could be shown as having  a positive performance.
Investment performance  should be calculated based  on the initial value of a stock or a portfolio  and 
the current  market value.   For a CFD position the market value is the cost plus or minus  any 
unrealised profit or loss. 
It is possible that if held for long enough unrealised  losses could  eventually be turned  around.  
Eventually all positions have to be closed. So when  looked at over the long term unrealised losses 
must at some point be realised.  Over an extended  period as the number  of losing positions  are 
gradually closed the performance data as presented  could approximate to the true performance.  
However, the key point  in my view is that the firms  performance data is unreliable.  
An investor with an account  trading based on the CES would do so based on historic performance.  
The return an investor  would  generate  would  be based entirely on the firms ability  to successfully 
speculate on short term price movements.  An investor would open an account in the hope that the 
firm would be able to replicate its apparently impressive trading record.  Any  doubts about the 
reliability of the performance data would make it likely  that an account  would  not be opened.  
Whilst the way the firm present performance data is explained, it is not in my view given  sufficient 
clarity.  To  have apparently  impressive performance data prominently displayed on the first page of a 
document and an explanatory paragraph at the very end of the document is in my view misleading.  
Especially when the explanatory paragraph would  cause  an informed investor to be highly sceptical of 
the claimed performance figures.
I do not know  what  the true performance data in the period before  Mr B decided  to open an account.  
The fact that the basis of the calculation  of the performance data is separated from the actual data 
suggests that the impressive  performance data would  not stand  up to scrutiny.  
Conclusions
This was a very high risk trading account with only one meaningful measure to control  risk  the 
leverage limit.  The  evidence is that the firm did not properly apply this risk measure to accounts.   
However, the way the firm calculated leverage  and hence measured risk was fundamentally flawed.  
Ref: DRN126477710So in practice the account, contrary to what investors were told, had no effective risk controls  in place.  
This is irrespective of whether the agreed leverage  limit was 3 times or 5 times.
The failure  to have any meaningful risk control in place meant that the account wasnt run properly 
and not in the way it was portrayed  there being no adequate risk controls  in place.  
Calculation of performance data based on closed  trades rather  than the market  value of all open 
positions is misleading.   An investor  who was made properly aware of how the firm calculated 
performance data would  in my view by highly sceptical  of the firms performance data.  
I consider it more likely than not that if Mr B had been aware of these two issues he would not have 
appointed the firm to manage his account.  I therefore  consider the correct  remedy is to repay to Mr B 
the money lost trading.  To this sum should be added simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from the 
date the account was closed  to the date of payment.  I also consider that losing such a substantial  
sum of money  would have been upsetting for Mr B and propose to award him £500 to compensate 
him for this.
Ref: DRN1264777