K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that One Sure  Insurance Limited didnt pass  on a request for documentation  
from his motor trade insurer. 
background
Mr E bought a motor  trade road risks policy though One Sure, a broker. In May 2018  Mr E 
received a notice  of cancellation from his insurer. He called One Sure  to ask why hed been 
sent a seven day notice of cancellation.  One Sure said the insurer had requested copies of 
the V5s and purchase receipts for the vehicles  Mr E had on his policy.  As these hadnt been 
provided his policy was due to be cancelled.  
Mr E said he provided the documentation for the vehicles on his policy  a few days later.  
However he said he wasnt able to provide V5s for all the vehicles  as hed bought  some  of 
them at auction.  As Mr E didnt provide the documentation the insurer asked for, his policy  
was cancelled. Because of this Mr E complained.  
The decision  to cancel  Mr Es policy was made  by the insurer. Mr Es complaint about the 
cancellation was dealt with under a separate complaint  against  the insurer. When Mr E 
complained to his insurer  he was told theyd  requested the documentation  from One Sure  in 
March 2018. Mr E complained about  One Sure and said if theyd told him sooner about the 
request he would have been  able to provide all of the documents  asked for. One Sure  
disagreed, they said theyd  asked Mr E for information and he hadnt  provided it. Mr E 
disagreed and referred his complaint here 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Es complaint. He found that One Sure  had received the 
request for documentation from the insurer at the end of March,  but hadnt  let Mr E know 
about it. Our investigator  explained that as Mr E couldnt provide the information  requested  
in the original time frame given it hadnt  made  a difference  not receiving the original  request. 
Because of this he didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E disagreed so the complaint has come to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I can only consider what One Sure, as Mr Es broker might or might not have 
done wrong. The decision to cancel Mr Es policy was made  by the insurer  and considered  
under a different complaint, so I havent considered  it here. 
One Sures terms of business dont set out what they will do when they receive a request for 
information from an insurer.  But its fair and reasonable to expect One Sure  to pass  any 
request from an insurer on within a reasonable time. 
In the calls between  Mr E and One Sure in March 2018 One Sure  explain the insurer is 
requesting more information  but they havent received the e-mail yet explaining whats 
needed. They say they will let Mr E know what is being requested  when they receive it from 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN10087732One Sure has provided e-mails between themselves, the insurer and Mr E. However  the e-
mails provided dont show One Sure passed the request for copies of the V5s and purchase  
receipts onto Mr E in March 2018.  In the call between Mr E and One Sure  the day after he 
received the seven day cancellation letter in May hes made  aware of this request. 
As One Sure knew about the request since March Im satisfied they could have done more  
and let Mr E know about the request from the insurer earlier. But I dont think  it would have 
made a difference if they had. I say this because when the original request for information 
was made  the insurer asked for the information  within seven days. Mr E said he wouldnt 
have been able to provide all the information  requested within that time. 
In addition after Mr E knew about the request he said he provided all the documentation  he 
had for the vehicles.  When Mr E provided the V5s that he did have, he didnt provide full 
copies for two of them. So while I understand Mr E said he could have got the V5s he didnt 
have, if hed had more time, he didnt provide full copies of the ones he had. Im therefore 
not satisfied he would  have provided all the documentation if he had more time and Im not 
going to tell One Sure to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1008773