K821x#15Complaint
Miss O complains  that Go Car Credit Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
Background
In July 2018 Miss O acquired a second  hand car funded by a hire purchase agreement with 
Go Car. It cost £4,500, had done  53,779  miles and was some 10 years  old. The car broke 
down on the way home and was recovered and taken  back to the dealer. It couldnt find any 
faults. A few days after it was returned Miss O had problems  with the tracking  and the air 
conditioning. These  faults were repaired and a week  or so later the car broke  down again.
Another garage suggested  there may be a fault with the engine control unit (ECU). In early 
August the car broke down again, but Miss O says as it was dark and she was with her 
children she left the lights on while waiting for the breakdown  service  to arrive and the 
battery ran down. The cause of the fault couldnt  be identified. 
Go Car rejected  Miss Os complaint. It said it had covered the cost of repairs to the tracking 
and air conditioning and it had not received evidence of any inherent fault. She brought  her 
complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of our adjudicators  who 
recommended it be upheld.
He asked Go Car to arrange for an independent inspection, but it failed to do so. Although 
the car was 10 years  old when it was supplied, the mileage was relatively low for a car of its 
age. He concluded that given the faults had developed so soon  after Miss O acquired the car 
it was likely they were present at the point  of sale. He noted Miss O hadnt driven the car 
since July 2018  and suggested Go Car allow her to reject it.
Go Car didnt agree and said an independent inspection  would  be useful. In the meantime it 
seems the car was towed away. It would appear that this was a result of it not being  taxed or 
insured. Go Car sought to arrange  an inspection, but this took some  time and when it was 
undertaken the battery was flat so the inspector  was unable to reach any conclusions as to 
the faults or their origin. Miss O had the car inspected by a main  dealer and it suggested a 
replacement ECU at a cost of some £1,500.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Go Car is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
Ref: DRN14284332The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Miss Os car was relatively elderly, but it had done  fewer miles that one would expect for a 
car of its age. It is concerning that the car broke  down as Miss O drove it home and while  I 
appreciate the dealer was unable  to find a fault it continued to break down on a regular basis 
thereafter. The issue of the tracking and air conditioning problem appear to have been 
repaired, but the ECU seems to have been an underlying problem that wasnt properly 
addressed.
It is unfortunate that on the last occasion  it broke down the battery ran flat. Miss O says that 
it was dark and she had children in the car and so kept the lights on. It seems she gave up 
on the car and the battery wasnt  repaired or replaced. Again this is regrettable  and it has 
meant that the subsequent inspection  proved  to be of no real value.
Without an independent inspection I have  to exercise my judgement based on the available 
information as to whether the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale.  I can see that 
Miss O has been quoted  for a new ECU which indicates that it had a significant  problem  and 
given it broke down on several  occasions soon after she acquired it I believe it more  likely 
that it wasnt fit for purpose.
Again I am disappointed to note that as the car wasnt  taxed or inured that it was towed  
away. However, I gather it is available  to be collected by Go Car. 
Ref: DRN14284333My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Go Car Credit Limited to:
1) Collect the car at no expense to Miss O.
2) Cancel  the agreement.
3) Refund Miss Os deposit and pay 8% simple interest per year on this sum from the date 
paid to the date it is repaid.
4) Record  the agreement as settled on Miss Os credit file.
5) Refund all payments  made, plus 8% simple interest from the dates of payment to the date 
repaid.
6) Pay £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience experienced by Miss O.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1428433