K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Interactive Investor  Services Limited (Interactive Investor)  failed to 
execute the sale of some  shares.
background
Mr W held an execution only trading account with Interactive  Investor. Mr W made  a request 
to sell shares on 7 September 2018, with the intention of buying the shares  back  later in an 
ISA.
Mr W gave an instruction  to execute  the sale at market best. He then received a warning 
message, which  said, We are unable to confirm the status of your order.  Please check your 
orders page or contact  the Electronic Brokerage  support team  on XXXX to verify the status 
of your order. For UK market best order there may be occasions  when the market  conditions 
change during the 15 second quote  countdown. In such instances the quote provided to you 
may be withdrawn by the market prior to execution. The order  was rejected,  which  meant 
the trade wasnt processed. 
Mr W says the order should have gone  through,  he believes Interactive Investor made an 
error as he had not encountered this problem before.  Further Mr W says theres  no warning 
about this potential issue on Interactive Investors YouTube  video. Mr W accepts  that he 
received the warning message but says he was busy  and didnt have time to call Interactive 
Investor until later in the day, by which time the share price had changed so he didnt 
proceed with the sale. Mr W would like compensation of £265.75, to compensate  for the 
profit he could have  made. 
Interactive Investor  say the trade was rejected because there was a price fluctuation, which  
meant the quote  was withdrawn from the market. This was a matter outside  their control. 
Where the Market Maker  makes this decision, the order is rejected. Interactive Investor 
logged a rejection which  said, Failed  to auto execute with the market. Interactive Investor 
rely upon the terms and conditions of the account at section 3.10.1, which say:
3.10.1 - The market  price  of any order placed by you in response to, and within  the 
timescales given for acceptance of a fixed quotation  may, in certain market conditions,  have 
moved during  the time between our sending/giving the fixed  quotation to you and the 
execution of your order. In these circumstances,  the Market Maker or other third party who 
has provided the quotation  to us is not obliged to honour the indicative  price you have 
received. If the Market  Maker or other  third party  does not honour the price, we will reject  
your order.  Such movement in price  may be in your favour or against  you"
Further they point  to the warning email sent to Mr W, which  informed him at the time that the 
order could not be confirmed. Interactive Investor  therefore say they havent done anything  
wrong.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and decided not to uphold  it. She thought the 
possibility of a quote being withdrawn from the market and the subsequent cancellation of 
the order was set out in the terms and conditions for the account, which Mr W had agreed to. 
The YouTube video showed  investors how to operate  the account but didnt go into the 
terms and conditions. Further, our investigator  took into account that Mr W had received the 
warning message which explained  that the status  of his order could not be confirmed. She 
Ref: DRN17605992thought Interactive Investor had made Mr W aware that the order  had not been confirmed 
and explained  the reasons why, so she didnt  think theyd done anything  wrong.
Mr W disagrees with the view. He says Interactive  Investor  did not explain that the trade 
hadnt executed until he called later in the day. The warning message  was confusing 
because it couldnt  confirm whether the sale had been executed.  Mr W was concerned  that 
information about the failed transaction had been removed from his account. He hadnt 
encountered a problem placing trades  before and repeated that the YouTube video didnt 
refer to the Market  Makers. Mr W remained of the view that the request failed because  of 
system failures. He also suggested that a shorter time should  be set for the transaction 
window.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the terms of Interactive Investors  account explained  the risk of an order  
being rejected  due to the Market Maker deciding not to honour a price  during the quotation 
window. I appreciate that Mr W watched  a video about how to work the account, but it was 
for him to familiarise himself with the account terms and conditions. 
On balance, I find Interactive Investors explanation as to why the quote was withdrawn and 
the order not placed, is plausible. Ive seen that the share price fluctuated at this time and 
Interactive Investors  notes record that the order failed to execute  with the market. Theres  
nothing to show that the order  wasnt placed because of an error  on Interactive Investors 
part. Im satisfied that the withdrawal of the price was a matter outside Interactive Investors 
control.
I appreciate Mr W hadnt encountered this problem  before, but I think  he was given 
information about the risk both in the terms set out above and at the time.  Before  selecting  
place order, a message would have been  displayed saying, The price  quoted  cannot be 
guaranteed until the order  is confirmed. Ive listened to the call Mr W made to Interactive 
Investor later in the day. Mr W accepts that when he placed the order, he received a 
message to say it could  not be confirmed. That message  was sent at 8.00am and explained 
that the price  might  have been  withdrawn  if the market conditions  changed  within the 15 
second countdown. Mr W was advised to contact  the Brokerage support team or to check 
his orders page.  So, Mr W was given  prompt information about a problem with the sale,  an 
explanation and was given the contact details of the team  that could help. I consider that Mr 
W was put on fair warning  that the order might  not have gone through.
Mr W didnt take any further steps when he received the message. Hes explained that he 
was busy and didnt  call Interactive Investor  until 12.55. I cant  fairly say that delay was down 
to Interactive  Investor.  Neither can I say that the change in price  was due to Interactive 
Investor.
I appreciate it was frustrating that the original  order was rejected, but that wasnt due to any 
wrongdoing on the part of Interactive  Investor. Theres  nothing to show  that Mr W was 
misled about the sales process or the next steps.
Ref: DRN17605993I understand that Mr W thinks Interactive Investor should shorten  their transaction  window. 
But our service doesnt have any disciplinary or regulatory powers, so were  not able to tell a 
business how to operate.
Mr W also raises concern  that the attempted transaction  has been removed from his trading 
history. Interactive Investor  have  confirmed that they do not provide contract notes  for 
rejected orders as they have not executed. Rejected or archived  orders  are not shown on 
the order list section  and this is the case for all customers. So, I dont think Mr W has been  
treated unfairly  here. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W, but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1760599