K820x#14complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  has declined  a claim made under his 
buildings insurance  policy.
background
In December  2017 Mr Ys property suffered water damage, as a result of a damaged 
coupling at the incoming  water mains pipe.  Mr Y was informed of this by the letting agent 
that manages his property  (he lets the property out). So he made a claim through his insurer,  
AXA.
AXA said it wasnt  able to provide settlement for the damage. It felt Mr Ys property was 
unoccupied when the damage occurred. And it noted that Mr Ys policy included an 
endorsement for circumstances like this. It said that damage caused by an escape of water  
wasnt covered when the property was unoccupied for more than 21 consecutive days  
unless;
the water  supply was turned off and drained of water, or;
the heating  was left on for 24 hours  a day, at a minimum of 15 degrees  Celsius.
AXA said these conditions werent  met  so it declined  the claim.
Mr Y didnt  feel this was fair. He didnt feel the property  was unoccupied at the time of the 
loss because it was being monitored  by a letting agent. And workmen  were visiting the 
property. He also noted the heating  was set on a timer to come on during the day, but not at 
night.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint.  She said Mr Y had told us the last tenant left 
the property in early  November 2017.  So, when the damage happened in December 2017 
she felt the property  wasnt occupied based on the terms of the policy.
She said when the property was unoccupied  the policy also required the water at the 
property to have been turned off, and the system drained of water.  Or, the heating  had to 
have been left on 24 hours a day. She didnt think these  requirements had been complied 
with. So, she didnt think she could ask AXA to accept the claim.
Mr Y didnt  agree. He reiterated he felt the property was occupied when the loss occurred. 
And, he said the contractor that carried out repairs to the damaged pipe said there was 
nothing Mr Y could have done  to stop the damage  to his property happening.
Because Mr Y didnt  agree  with our investigators opinion  the complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
I recently contacted  Mr Y and AXA with my thoughts  on the outcome of this complaint. I 
explained that based on what I had seen so far I thought AXAs  decision to decline Mr Ys 
claim was fair. So, I wasnt intending  on upholding this complaint  unless either  party 
provided evidence  or comments  that changed my mind.
Ref: DRN16920382I said that for an escape of water to be covered  at Mr Ys home (whilst the property was 
unoccupied) the water supply had to be turned  off and drained. Or the heating had to be on, 
at a level of 15 degrees  or more for 24 hours  a day, with the loft hatch left open. Based on 
the evidence I said it was likely this endorsement  had been breached. The water in the 
system had not been drained.  And I felt the evidence suggested the heating hadnt  been on 
as the policy  required it to be.
I said the failure to comply  with the above endorsement was material  to the loss Mr Y had 
suffered. This was based  on a discussion with Mr Ys expert  who said that if the heating 
was on low enough to just keep water in the system circulating he didnt think  having the 
heating on would have  made a difference  to the burst happening. But, he said if the heating  
had been on higher  he felt this could have made a difference to the pipe freezing and 
splitting. 
I thought this suggested that if Mr Y had complied with the endorsement on his policy, it 
would have stopped the loss from happening. So, I didnt think AXA had acted unfairly in its 
claims decision. 
AXA responded and said it agreed with my thoughts. Mr Y explained he didnt agree. He 
said;
he felt AXA hadnt taken his claim seriously  at the time he had informed it of his loss;
there was an unexpected cold front at the time his property was damaged;
he felt he had complied with the endorsement detailed on his policy.  Mr Y said the 
heating was on 24 hours a day and the bills he had provided  evidenced this;
the contractor that attended his property at the time of the loss had provided a report  
on the cause of the damage and this evidence was key to his case.  He said this 
contractor said having the heating on wouldnt have made  a difference to whether the 
burst pipe happened or not. And, he said any recollections that contractor provided 
now were based on something that happened over a year ago. So werent as reliable 
as the written document he had provided  at the time;
he didnt think an insurer should be allowed  to decline a claim for any breach on the 
policy if this had not been deliberate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I understand this will be disappointing to Mr Y. But, Ive explained the reasons for 
my decision  below.
Ref: DRN16920383Ive looked at Mr Ys policy documents, to see what  cover he has. I can see Mr Y has cover  
under his policy for damage caused by an escape of water. But, Im also aware there is an 
endorsement on his policy which says the following;
27. Unoccupancy Clause  for let properties
Immediately there is a break in the Tenancy Agreement of the Property is left without an 
Occupant for more  than 21 days the Insurer will not pay for loss or damage caused by 
-Escape of water from and frost damage to fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes 
between 1st October and 1st April (both days inclusive) unless:
i)The Water supply  is turned off at the mains stopcock and the entire water system 
and central heating system is drained  of all water or
ii)Where the entire property has the benefit of a central heating system it is set to 
operate continuously for 24 hours of each day and the thermostat set at not less 
than 15 degree  Celcius/60 degree Fahrenheit.  Where fitted, the loft hatch door 
must be left open.
AXA has said that at the time Mr Ys property was damaged it wasnt occupied  because 
the previous tenant had left the property  more than 21 days before  the loss happened. So, 
Ive needed to think about whether Mr Ys property was unoccupied, and whether in the 
circumstances, its fair and reasonable to apply the above endorsement to this claim.
The policy booklet  Ive been provided with doesnt define what the term occupant  means.  
So, Ive thought about the ordinary meaning of this word. And Im satisfied this means a 
person who resides  within the property. So, if there  was no one residing in Mr Ys property 
for 21 consecutive days I think  the above  endorsement would apply to the claim.
Mr Y has confirmed that his tenant  vacated the property in early November 2018. And this 
was more than 21 days before  the damage  to the property occurred. So, I do think the 
property was unoccupied at the time of the claim.
I know  the water at the property  wasnt turned off. And when  Mr Y discussed his claim with 
AXA he did confirm the heating at the property wasnt on 24 hours a day  it was on a timer 
that went  off at night. 
Mr Y has now provided a gas bill from around  the time of the loss, which  he says shows  the 
heating was actually  on for 24 hours a day. He said he was mistaken when he previously  
explained the heating was only on during the day. But I dont think  the information Mr Y has 
provided shows the heating was on for 24 hours a day. I have no previous bills to compare 
the usage before and after the property became unoccupied, to see whether the heating was 
on continuously. And I think Mr Ys initial explanation is most likely. On the day the loss was 
discovered Mr Ys letting agent emailed Mr Y, and this suggested the heating wasnt  on 
continuously. And a couple of days after the loss Mr Y did note the heating was on a timer 
basis. Given the above, I think its most likely  this part of the endorsement wasnt complied 
with.
Mr Y has said AXA shouldnt be allowed to rely on the breach of a policy endorsement to 
decline a claim  if the breach wasnt deliberate. I understand  any breach wasnt  deliberate.  
But, the endorsement forms part of the insurance contract both parties agreed to. And this 
Ref: DRN16920384endorsement was made  clear on Mr Ys policy documents. So, Im satisfied the 
endorsement, and whether this was complied with, is relevant in this case.  
Because I think the endorsement was breached, Ive considered  whether Mr Ys failure to 
comply with it made a difference to whether the escape of water occurred. And I think  it did 
make a difference.
Mr Y has said the escape of water  happened because of a damaged coupling at the 
incoming mains water pipe. And, he said the leak would have happened even if he had 
ensured the heating was on 24 hours a day. Mr Y has provided  evidence from his contractor 
which he says illustrates this. This says;
We gained access to the roof space to inspect the cold-water system. All Pipe work was 
fully insulated. We eventually found  that a small section of pipe had split, allowing the mains 
pressure water to escape and this section of pipe was replaced.
In our opinion and past experience this split could have occurred at any time no matter if the 
Central Heating was on or not as this was on the cold water incoming supply within  the roof 
space above the Insulation which was laid over the ground floor ceiling.
Prior to this services involvement AXA hadnt  seen  this report.  So, this was sent to it. AXA 
has reviewed the report, and contacted  the contractor who wrote  it. I think  this was 
reasonable, as it does  need to respond to any new evidence  in order  to validate a loss.
Following this, AXA noted the contractor  told it the pipe was frost damaged, and was located 
centrally within the attic.  So, AXA thought if the heating had been on as the policy  required,  
and the loft hatch  had been open  the heat would have risen into the loft and stopped  the 
leak happening. It felt that Mr Y had breached the endorsement on his policy, and this had 
led to the escape of water that had happened. 
So, I contacted  Mr Ys contractor to discuss the likely cause of the damage.  The contractor  
said he remembered the property and he was one of the first people  on the scene of the 
damage. He said he could  remember one burst pipe in the loft that had frozen  and split. 
He noted there was a split in the centre  of a copper pipe, for the cold water  feed. The split 
was on a piece  of pipe about  6 inches long, and the split was in the middle of this, between 
two bends. 
The contractor noted he should probably  have been more detailed  in his report in respect of 
his comments about the heating. He said that if the heating was on very low, so just ticking 
over to allow the water to circulate, the pipe probably would have still frozen. But, he said if 
the heating had been on higher, it might  have made  a difference  to the pipe bursting. 
Ive thought carefully about what the contractor has said  alongside all other information Ive 
been supplied  with. I appreciate Mr Ys point that there was an unexpected cold front at the 
time of the loss. But, given what the contractor  said, Im persuaded that if he had complied  
with the endorsement its likely the burst pipe could have been avoided.
Ref: DRN16920385Mr Y says the written  report is more persuasive  evidence, given the matter  happened over a 
year ago, and the contractor would have needed  to recollect this incident. But, Im satisfied 
the contractors  recollections were  clear. And I have no reason to doubt what he said.    
Because of the above, Im satisfied Mr Y breached the endorsement  on his policy.  And this 
breach was material to the escape  of water that occurred. So, Im satisfied there isnt any 
cover under the policy for damaged caused  by an escape of water  in these circumstances. I 
think AXA acted fairly when making  its decision  to decline Mr Ys claim. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1692038