K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
2001. Mrs C says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
In my provisional decision sent in July 2019 I explained that I dont think  this complaint  
should be upheld.  I said:
FICL had to make Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs C applied for her card 
and PPI but FICL has provided us with a copy of the available  paperwork. The application 
form Mrs C completed  when she applied for her card had a separate  section for PPI that
Mrs C has signed separately  to signing in agreement with the card itself.  The section state 
only sign this box if you require account  cover and Mrs C didnt have to sign this section to 
apply for the card. So with this in mind I think FICL made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs C has told us she was working 16 hours or less per week  when  she applied for 
the policy. But when  we asked Mrs C for further  details about  her employment we havent 
received any further evidence.  So Im unable to be certain what hours  Mrs C worked at the 
time.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Cs circumstances  at the time Im unable  to say she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it looks like the PPI would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
I gave Mrs C and FICL  time to respond  to my provisional decision. FICL didnt respond,  Mrs C 
responded stating  that she worked on average  less than 16 hours per week.  But she could not 
provide and evidence to support this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. But as Mrs C wasnt able to provide evidence to support the 
hours she worked when  she took the policy I cant say the policy  wasnt  suitable for her and I still 
dont think this complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Ref: DRN16569252Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1656925