K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited, trading  as Northridge Finance  (Northridge) has been  of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
Mr T took receipt  of a used car in January 2017.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Northridge.  At the point of supply the car was about five years  old 
and had already  completed a little less than 97,000 miles.
In June 2017 the flywheel  and clutch were replaced at a cost of about £1,200  to Mr T.
Immediately afterwards he noticed  a warning light on the dash  board  and a noise when 
steering. In August 2017 the dealership diagnosed  a fault with the steering  rack and Mr T 
says they told him the car was okay to drive in the immediate future. In November 2018 he 
was advised not to drive the car anymore as a new steering rack was required.
He complained to Northridge  but they didnt support his complaint. They said they were only 
responsible for the quality of the car when it was supplied to Mr T and they noted hed not 
raised the problem  with them for two years. They also understood hed managed to cover  
about 20,000 miles  in the car since hed taken receipt of it and that the car already had a high 
mileage when it was supplied. They explained that some components would  therefore  be 
nearing the end of their natural life and they therefore thought the fault was related to normal  
wear and tear and that they werent responsible for the problem that had been reported.
Mr T disagreed with Northridge so he referred his complaint to this service  and our 
investigator provided his opinion.  He thought  it was most likely the problems Mr T had 
experienced were  related to wear  and tear and he didnt think there was evidence  they were 
present, or developing, at the point the car was supplied to him. So he didnt think it would 
be fair to ask Northridge to take any further action.
Mr T was unhappy with the investigators findings. He thought  it was unreasonable  to 
suggest a flywheel would not last the lifetime  of a car and he explained that both issues had 
been identified  within the first six months  of ownership and that Northridge should therefore 
take responsibility for them.  He said their handling  of his complaint  had been  unfair  and he 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr T so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN17226262Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr T. The car here 
was around five years old and had already completed about 97,000 miles. 
Thats a significant  mileage and I think a reasonable person would expect some of the 
components to be nearing the end of their useful life. I think  that would reasonably apply to 
components such as the flywheel and the steering  rack as I think the higher the mileage,  the 
more wear these components would be exposed to. I understand that it would be hoped  
theyd last the lifetime  of a vehicle but I dont think a failure after such a high mileage would 
be unexpected.  
Mr T reported the flywheel  problem  to the dealership in April/May  2017 a few months  after 
hed taken receipt of the car. The steering problem wasnt reported until July. I think both 
issues would  have  been likely to have been  identifiable earlier had they been present  on the 
car at the point  of supply.
Northridges responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
I dont think I have  sufficient evidence to suggest that either of these faults were present at 
the point of supply and I think  their subsequent  development,  whilst apparently  within the first 
few months of Mr Ts ownership, could reasonably have been  expected  on a car of this age 
and mileage. So I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Northridge to take any further  
action and it follows that I dont think their handling  of Mr Ts complaint has been unfair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1722626