K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the service she got from AXA Insurance UK Plc following a car 
accident and wants compensation  for the distress this caused  her. She also wants  to be 
reimbursed for personal belongings she says werent returned to her by AXAs agent after 
the accident.
background
Mrs B was involved  in a car accident  in September  2018.  She was taken  to hospital by 
ambulance, while her car was recovered  by the police.
The day after the accident, Mrs B phoned AXA. She says she wanted  to collect her personal 
belongings and see her car, which had been  written off, but had a funeral to go to the 
following day. It seems AXA told Mrs B she would need to collect her personal belongings 
but that her car would not be progressed to the next stage without letting her know . 
When Mrs B called a few days later to arrange  to see the car and collect her belongings, she 
was told it had been moved  to a site a long way from where she lived.  So she couldnt  see 
the car or collect  her belongings herself.  AXAs agent sent Mrs B her belongings by post 
shortly afterwards. Mrs B says a number of items she had in her car at the time of the 
accident were missing.
When Mrs B complained to AXA about these things, it sent her a cheque  for £100 as a 
goodwill gesture for the distress shed been  caused, as well as some flowers. Mrs B didnt 
think this was adequate and so brought her complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Bs complaint  said AXA should pay Mrs B a further £250 
for the distress and inconvenience it had caused  her. But he didnt think it needed  to 
reimburse her for her belongings not being  returned, since he couldnt be sure this was 
AXAs agents fault.
Neither Mrs B nor AXA agrees with our investigators findings,  so Mrs Bs complaint has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part. For reasons Ill explain, I 
think its fair and reasonable for AXA to pay Mrs B an additional £250  for the distress  and 
inconvenience its caused her. But I dont think its fair and reasonable for AXA to pay for the 
items Mrs B says werent returned.
From internal AXA notes  weve been sent, it seems  AXAs procedure is to get a policyholder  
to collect his or her belongings  from a car within 48 hours. I dont have recordings of Mrs Bs 
calls with AXA, so Ive relied on AXAs internal notes.  In the initial  call Mrs B had with AXA, it 
seems that, although she was told shed need  to collect  her belongings, she wasnt given 
this 48 hour time limit for doing so. And it seems she was also told nothing  would happen  to 
her car without her being told first.
Ref: DRN17983752Mrs B says she was very upset when she called AXA a few days  later to be told her car had 
been moved to a site a long way away from her home without her knowledge, so she 
couldnt see it or collect her personal belongings herself. AXAs  call notes describe her as 
being very upset  and crying  and crying  and breaking down. And the person  at AXA who 
handled Mrs Bs complaint notes shed had a head injury in the accident  and so was 
probably rather traumatised. Given the assurances  it seems  AXA gave Mrs B, Im not 
surprised she was so upset. So, like our investigator,  I think  AXA should pay Mrs B an 
additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience  it caused her.
I know AXA is unhappy with this award.  But having looked in detail at Mrs Bs case  file and 
seen the emotional  impact AXAs failings had on her, I think the award Im making is fair and 
reasonable.
Turning now to the personal belongings Mrs B says were missing  when  her other  items  were 
returned. She acknowledges she cant prove they were in her car but says AXAs  agent  cant 
prove they werent. To uphold Mrs Bs complaint on this point  Id have to have enough 
evidence to make me think its more  likely  than not those items were in the car and AXAs  
agent was responsible for the losses. What Mrs B says on its own about the items that were 
missing, and without anything else to back it up, isnt enough for me to think  that would be a 
fair and reasonable conclusion. So I dont uphold her complaint on this point.  
Finally, Mrs B says she hasnt had a proportionate  refund  of her car insurance  premium,  
even though her car was written  off part way through  the policy term. But Mrs Bs policy says 
AXA wont  refund any premium if shes made a claim or had one made  against her during 
the period of insurance. Since Mrs B made a claim, I think what AXA has done  is in line with 
Mrs Bs policy terms.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint  and direct  AXA Insurance  UK Plc to 
pay her £250 in compensation, in addition  to the £100 it previously  paid, for the distress  and 
inconvenience its caused her. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mrs B how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1798375