K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited (Link) has unfairly  recorded  a 
default on his credit file.
background
Mr B had a current account with a third party bank. This account was assigned  to Link in 
October 2018.
In December 2018 Mr B complained to Link about the information itd reported  about the 
account to Credit Reference Agencies. He said hed written to it in October 2017 to let it 
know he had raised complaints  with the third party bank  about the debt on the account. And 
that he could see both Link and the third party bank had placed  defaults on his credit file for 
the same  debt. He said he didnt  think  this was fair, and he wanted the defaults to be 
removed.
Link said that it hadnt breached any of the guidelines that govern its organisation and 
businesses practices. It explained that it was advised by the third party  bank that Mr Bs 
account had defaulted on 5 September 2017.  And that this was what it had reported to 
Credit Reference Agencies. 
It said that the default applied by the third party bank should have been reflected as settled 
or satisfied  to the show that the account  had been  assigned and Link had taken over 
reporting of it.
Our investigator looked at what had happened  and thought Link had recorded the default 
correctly. They also felt it had provided the correct advice when it told Mr B that any dispute  
about the original  debt needed to be raised with the third party  bank. 
Mr B didnt accept out investigators view. He said that Link were fully aware  that hed raised 
a complaint about this debt with the third party bank, but still went ahead  and recorded  the 
default. So the case has been passed to me to review.
Mr B has also brought a complaint  to our service about the actions of the third party bank. 
This is being  considered in a separate decision.  So I wont  make any further comments on 
the merits of the actions  taken by that bank here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think Link has 
made any mistakes or treated Mr B unfairly  here. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs account was assigned to Link on 12 October  2017. Link has shown us that it sent him 
a letter  on 13 October 2017 to make  him aware  of this.
At this point, as it explained, Link took over responsibility for reporting details of the account 
to Credit Reference Agencies. I can see its reported  that this account defaulted on 5 
September 2017. And its provided  evidence to confirm that this is in line with the information 
it was provided by the third party bank. So Im satisfied it acted correctly when it did this.
Ref: DRN13397572Mr B has provided us with a copy of his credit  report. I can see that Links  entry shows  the 
same account start date and account balance  as the entry made by the third party bank.  So I 
think its clear  the two entries  relate  to the same debt. Mr B has pointed out that the third 
party bank had actually  recorded its default on 6 September 2017. But I cant  see that Link 
reporting the default from the 5 September 2017 is of any detriment to Mr B. 
I can see from evidence provided  by Mr B that the third party  bank has told him hes the only 
person who can see its entry on his credit file. And that other institutions will only see the 
default applied  by Link. Mr B says he was still disputing the default with the third party bank 
when his account was assigned to Link. And because of this he doesnt think Link should 
have reported  a default. But Link has a duty to report  accurate information  to 
Credit Reference Agencies. And as this default  had already been applied to Mr Bs account, 
I think it was correct to continue to report it.
I can see Link did make  enquiries  with the third party bank after Mr B contacted  it to suggest 
the original default  had been applied in error. And its provided evidence to show  that the 
third party bank confirmed  it had already responded to Mr Bs complaint. Links  notes state 
that it then advised Mr B he would need  to contact the third party  bank if he wished to 
dispute the original default. And I think this was a fair and reasonable response  to his 
concerns. 
I appreciate Mr B will likely be disappointed  by my decision, but for the reasons Ive outlined 
above I wont be asking  Link to remove the default  its reported from his credit  file. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1339757