K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  the MPPI.
Background
Mr and Mrs W took out a joint mortgage  in 1994  at the same  time an MPPI policy  was sold. 
This policy only provided cover for Mrs W.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They also sent in 
paperwork which they said shows the MPPI  covered Mr W  not Mrs W. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me for final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, 
so Ill explain the reasons  for my decision  below.  
I should start by commenting on paperwork that has been sent in by Mr and Mrs W. Ive 
looked at this, but I am satisfied that the MPPI  covered Mrs W. The first letter they have sent 
pre-dates the start of the policy I am looking at by a year, and is a different cost. The second 
document shows the joint mortgage, and MPPI. It doesnt show  the name of the person 
covered, but is for the correct cost of the policy I am considering. There are also renewal 
documents addressed to Mrs W, dated about a year after the policy was taken out, which  is 
usual for this kind of policy. So taking everything  in to account, Im satisfied the MPPI 
provided cover for Mrs W, and not Mr W.
Mr and Mrs W say that they had no idea they had taken out MPPI, and there was never any 
mention of the policy. Nationwide cant provide paperwork  from the time (but this isnt 
unusual for a policy taken out so long ago, and businesses  arent  required to keep records 
indefinitely). But Nationwide has been able to show  information about when the policy  
started and ended, the cost, and who the cover was attached to.
So taking everything in to account,  I simply dont have enough to say that Nationwide  didnt 
give Mr and Mrs W a choice in taking out the MPPI, and I cant uphold their complaint for this 
reason. But given that Mr and Mrs W have provided their own documentation about  the 
MPPI, I think that they were aware that there was a policy in place. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs W so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs W got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
Ref: DRN16457852doesnt look Mrs W was affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  - so 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the MPPI  would have  put them off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1645785