K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the compensation  that hes been offered by Mercedes-Benz  Financial  
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance,  for a car that he rejected.
background 
Mr T paid £900 to a broker to find a car for him. And a nearly  new car was supplied  to Mr T 
under a hire agreement  with Mercedes-Benz Finance that he signed  in June 2018. He 
experienced a number  of issues with the car and asked to reject it. The dealer  took a 
number of steps to resolve the issues but Mr T reported that some  of the issues  remained 
outstanding. So in August  2018  Mercedes-Benz Finance said that Mr T could  reject  the car. 
And it said that it would  return  his deposit, 50% of the brokers  fee and one monthly payment 
under the agreement and that it would  cover the cost of the number plate transfer. Mr T 
didnt accept its offer and complained to this service. He said that he wanted the brokers  fee 
refunded in full.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He thought that the fee 
should be returned in full as it was a cost that Mr T incurred when sourcing the car. He said 
that thered been breach  of contract as the car had been found to be faulty at the point  of 
sale - so to put Mr T back in the position he would've been in the investigator thought it 
reasonable that the full cost of procuring the lease  should  be returned.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that Mr T chose to source a car in a way that has cost him instead  of 
contacting a retailer for assistance  and that the 50% contribution was made as a goodwill 
gesture. And it says that it shouldnt be required to refund Mr T the full brokers fee. 
Mr T says that Mercedes-Benz Finance has returned £5,612.40 to him but hes paid 
£6,444.44  so, even  with a full refund of the brokers fee, thered still be a shortfall of 
£382.04. And he says that he doesnt seem  to be receiving any form of compensation from 
Mercedes-Benz Finance as an apology for the inconvenience. And he says that its now 
charging him £25 for not providing the cars  registration document, that this is all causing  him 
stress and that hes not sure whether Mercedes-Benz Finance is now saying that hes in 
arrears and has passed that information to any credit reference agencies.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Mercedes-Benz Finance on 4 April 2019. In my provisional decision  I said as follows:
Mercedes-Benz Finance  has accepted that the car that was supplied  to Mr T under  
the hire agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. And its paid £5,612.40 to Mr T 
(which is a refund of his deposit of £4,158.32,  50% of the brokers fee, two monthly  
repayments of £462.04  and £80 for the cost of the number plate transfer).
Mr T says that he should receive a full refund of the £900 that he paid to a broker  
and compensation  for his distress and inconvenience. But Mercedes-Benz  Finance 
says that it refunded 50% of the brokers fee as a gesture of goodwill and that it 
shouldnt be required to pay any more  money  to him.
Ref: DRN12731782It was Mr Ts decision to use a broker to find a car for him. Mercedes-Benz  Finance 
wasnt involved with that decision  - and I dont consider  that Mercedes-Benz  Finance 
has any liability for the brokers fee. So Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund  any of the brokers 
fee to Mr T.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has refunded to Mr T two of the three monthly  payments 
that he made under the agreement  and it has kept the other payment for the use 
that Mr T had from the car between June and August 2018. I consider  that to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
It has also refunded 50% of the brokers fee to Mr T as a gesture of goodwill. So Mr T 
has received £450 compensation from Mercedes-Benz Finance. I dont consider that 
it was required to refund any of the brokers fee to Mr T - and Im not persuaded that 
it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay any 
other compensation to him.
Mercedes-Benz Finance says that Mr T didnt return the cars registration  document 
with the car  so its charged  him £30. And it says that the £30 charge is showing as 
arrears on his account  but that it hasnt  recorded  any adverse information on his 
credit file. Mr Ts original complaint to Mercedes-Benz Finance didnt include a 
complaint about  the £30 charge for the registration documents   so Im unable  to 
consider it as part of this complaint. If Mr T now wishes to complain  about  that 
charge, he should  first complain to Mercedes-Benz Finance  and then  if hes not 
satisfied with its response  he may be able to make  a separate complaint  to this 
service.
I consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance  has dealt  with Mr Ts rejection of the car 
correctly. And I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay 
any other amounts  to Mr T  or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr T or Mercedes-Benz Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr T has responded to my provisional  decision and says, in summary, that:
hes done nothing  wrong yet will be left financially out of pocket for a situation that 
was outside his control;
Mercedes-Benz Finance leased him a car which it admits wasnt fit for purpose, 
causing him considerable stress and inconvenience  and provided particularly poor 
customer service  which added to the stress and inconvenience;
he had to take the car to its garages on multiple occasions  in attempt to have repairs 
carried out which were unsatisfactory  and he was left driving around in courtesy 
cars which were of a far lesser value  and quality of performance than the car he had 
leased;
Mercedes-Benz Finance provided  no financial  recompense for his stress and 
inconvenience;
he incurred a broker fee and wouldve incurred it regardless of whether he sourced 
the car through a broker or directly from Mercedes-Benz Finance  so he doesnt see 
it fit that it can consider  that providing  a 50% refund  of the broker fee is a goodwill 
gesture as its a cost that he paid in good faith whilst leasing one of its car;
it wouldve cost him about £350 more each month if he hadnt used a broker;  and
Ref: DRN12731783he thinks that, at the very least, the broker fee should be returned with a pro-rata  
deduction for the period during which he had the car (bearing in mind that hes paid 
well over £1,000  in broker fees and monthly  rental for a car that hes hardly had and 
was mostly unable to use and which  has caused him considerable stress and 
inconvenience).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  and in particular the response to 
my provisional decision that has been  provided by Mr T - to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted that the car that was supplied  to Mr T under the hire 
agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. And its paid £5,612.40  to Mr T (which  is a refund of 
his deposit of £4,158.32,  50% of the brokers fee, two monthly  repayments  of £462.04 and 
£80 for the cost of the number plate transfer). It says that the refund of 50% of the brokers 
fee was made as a gesture of goodwill and that its kept one monthly payment under the 
agreement for the use that Mr T had from the car between June and August 2018. I consider 
that to be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz  
Finance to refund a larger proportion of the brokers fee to Mr T. The brokers fee didnt form 
part of Mr Ts agreement  with Mercedes-Benz Finance but was a separate  arrangement  
between Mr T and the broker. It was Mr Ts choice  to pay the brokers fee to the broker  
and I dont consider  that there  was any requirement  for Mercedes-Benz  Finance to refund  
any of that fee to Mr T. 
I consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance  has dealt  with Mr Ts rejection of the car correctly. 
And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require  it to pay any other amounts 
to Mr T  or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1273178