K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr D took out a total of three  loans  from Cash4unow between September and 
November 2018.
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Date repaid
1 08.09.18 £400 06.11.18 £125.89
2 06.11.18 £770 12.11.18 £244.26
3 12.11.18 £770 - £235.96
Each of the three loans was repayable in six monthly instalments.
Mr D believes  Cash4unow was irresponsible to lend to him. He says,  in summary, that it 
didnt carry out enough checks after it made the first loan.  And he thinks that any responsible  
lender would have had questions about  his repeated borrowing over such a short  period of 
time. He says the loans have caused  him stress and financial hardship, and trapped  him into 
a spiral of debt. Mr Ds told us he had to borrow  from his family to repay  the first two loans, 
but he says he cant do that to repay  the third loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  In summary, he 
thought the checks Cash4unow had carried out were proportionate. And based on the 
information it had, he didnt think it had been irresponsible  to make the loans.
Mr D wasnt happy with the adjudicators view. So the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to complaints 
about short-term  lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good industry 
practice  on our website.
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN10197342the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
As I mentioned earlier each of Mr Ds loans was repayable over a six month  period.  So the 
amounts that he needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal  payday  
loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a significantly 
longer period.
I acknowledge that Mr D says his monthly  expenditure was actually higher than he declared  
to Cash4unow.  But Cash4unow was entitled to rely on the information Mr D gave it about his 
income and regular monthly expenditure, in the absence of anything to suggest that it was 
likely to be unreliable.  And on the basis of those figures, Im satisfied that the loan 
repayments would have appeared to be relatively  comfortably  affordable  for Mr D.
I think that Cash4unow should  have  had some concerns  that Mr D repaid his first two loans 
early and then immediately applied to borrow again.  That might have been  a sign that his 
finances were under  some pressure. But against  that, Mr D didnt appear to have  any 
difficulties making his repayments.
Overall, given what was apparent about Mr Ds circumstances at the time, and his borrowing 
history with Cash4unow, I dont think it would have  been proportionate for Cash4unow to ask 
Mr D for the amount of information that would have been needed to show that the lending  
was unsustainable  for him.
I appreciate that Mr Ds finances were, in fact, under some  pressure at the time. Hes 
commented that if Cash4unow had asked to see his bank statements, it would have seen  a 
large amount of gambling. And he believes it would have realised that he wouldnt be able to 
repay his borrowing sustainably. 
But I think it was reasonable for Cash4unow  to rely on what Mr D said about his income  and 
expenditure. Im satisfied  that there wasnt anything in the information that Cash4unow 
should have been aware of which meant that it would have been  proportionate  to expect it to 
carry out more detailed affordability checks,  or to start verifying what Mr D told it by, for 
example, requesting copies of his bank  statements.  So Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but 
I dont think Cash4unow  was wrong  to give him the loans.
Ref: DRN10197343my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1019734