K822xcomplaint
Mr O has complained that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) didnt assist 
him when  he tried to make a claim on his buildings insurance policy.
All references to LV include  its agents.
background 
In February 2019  Mr O got in touch with LV to say that a wall at the back  of his property had 
collapsed and smashed a wooden fence that belongs to the property behind  his. He said it 
was dangerous  and had to be looked  at urgently. LV told him that it wouldnt provide cover 
because he didnt know whether he was the owner of the wall or not. 
Mr O got in touch with LV a number of times  over the same  month  both over the phone  and 
in writing. In his exchanges with LV he made  a number  of complaints which resulted in LV 
issuing two final response letters before Mr O complained to us. In an email  to LV on 
14 February 2019 Mr O said that:
The wall was dangerous and despite many calls to LV about this it had refused to attend 
his property.
He asked for recordings of his calls to LV to use as evidence in potential  litigation.
He and his neighbour had removed dangerous parts of the wall but it still needed a long 
term fix.
LV spoke to Mr O on the same day to say there  was no cover for claims caused  by wear and 
tear even if he was able to show that he owned  the wall. But a week later LV wrote a final 
response letter to Mr O. It said it would send a loss adjuster to his property  to inspect the 
wall. The loss adjuster  would also try to establish who the owner was.  
The loss adjuster attended Mr Os property a week or so later.  He said the stability of the 
wall may have been affected  by the building of a new house behind Mr Os. But he also said 
that most  of the bricks were loose and that the mortar had perished. He also said there was 
a shed in Mr Os garden that was close to the wall that may have contributed to it collapsing.
The loss adjuster suggested that LV should  do one of three things: 
instruct an independent surveyor/engineer; or
turn the claim down  as the damage  seems to be as a result  of poor maintenance; or
accept the claim under the accidental damage section assuming that the building of the 
house at the back caused the wall to collapse.  
LV decided to instruct  a buildings  surveyor who prepared a report  in March  2019 after 
visiting the property.  The surveyor said it was unclear who the owner of the wall was. He 
said a party wall surveyor  or legal  representative would have to be employed to confirm  this.
The surveyor also said the main  reason  for the wall collapsing was probably wear  and tear 
and not a recognised insured peril (like a storm). He said there were plants growing behind 
the wall that could have caused  it to collapse in addition to there being extensive mortar  loss. 
He also thought that Mr Os shed may have played a part in this. 
According to the surveyor  it was unlikely  that the building work to the new house behind  
Mr Os couldve  caused the wall to collapse.  He said this was because  the work happened  
over 12 months earlier and if it had undermined  the wall the damage wouldve  probably 
Ref: DRN19262362happened sooner. He also said even  if the building works caused vibration to the wall it 
should have been able to survive the impact. 
LV then told Mr O that it wouldnt  be able to assist him any further because of the reasons 
the surveyor gave,  particularly as his policy doesnt  cover damage due to wear  and tear and 
as there  was no insured peril. Mr O wasnt happy and complained  but LV didnt  change  its 
mind. In his complaint of 26 March 2019  Mr O said among other things  that:
he wasnt happy with LVs service;
he asked for its full correspondence  files so he could complain to us;
despite the fact that the wall collapsed on 11 February, LV still hadnt made a decision 
whether it would cover him;
he hadnt received  the documents hed requested.
LV responded to say that his complaint had been  resolved as it had told him it had been 
declined. It also provided details for him to make  a subject access request (SAR) for the 
documents he had requested. 
Mr O then asked for evidence that his shed contributed to the collapse of the wall and that 
LV had made enquiries with the other builders and the local council. He also wanted to know  
what enquiries it made to establish ownership.  He again said it was already two months after 
the incident and nothing  had been  done  and complained that he had to make a number of 
calls before LV agreed to send  someone  to inspect  the wall. 
The surveyor responded to say the wall was already compromised and that the shed may 
have contributed to its collapse. 
Mr O then complained to us. He said, among  other things that:
LV delayed coming out to inspect  the wall, despite him saying it was very dangerous and 
only did so after he made a number of calls to it.
He asked for a number of documents to be sent to him but LV wouldnt respond to him to 
confirm whether it had sent him everything  or not.  
He expected LV, with its resources, to be able to trace  who the owner  of the wall was. 
If LV wasnt able to accept the claim it shouldve paid him compensation.
He gave LV the details of the builders who built the properties behind  his but it didnt 
contact them.
He didnt think the report LV sent him was complete. It didnt say definitively who owns  
the wall or what caused the wall to collapse.  He also didnt think his plastic  shed  was to 
blame for the wall collapsing. 
Mr O wants LV to fully investigate who owns the wall, investigate whether there were any 
issues identified with the wall when the houses behind  his were being  built,  definitively 
establish the cause of the collapse,  solve the matter and pay him compensation.
LV responded to Mr O again while we were looking into his complaint because it said hed 
raised additional points to what  hed originally complained to it about. It said:
It shouldve helped  Mr O make his wall safe when he reported  the incident  even if it was 
still investigating whether he was covered or not. It offered  him £250 which is what it 
wouldve cost to make the wall safe and £150 compensation. 
It tried to contact the builders Mr O told it about  but couldnt  get through  to them. 
It advised Mr O about going  to other  organisations in order  to try to find out who the wall 
belonged to. 
Ref: DRN19262363It thought its decision  that there was no cover was correct because there was no 
evidence as to the ownership of the wall. But also because  the buildings surveyor said 
the collapse of the wall was due to wear and tear which  is excluded under the policy. 
It was for Mr O to provide proof  that he owned the wall. 
Establishing ownership of the wall was a legal dispute which isnt covered under the 
policy.
Mr O told us he was happy  with the £250 but wanted £50 per week for the delays LV caused 
which went on for 30 not three weeks. He also said LV has the resources to find out who 
owns the wall and it should do more to help him. 
Our investigator thought LV acted fairly and reasonably and that, for the reasons LV gave 
Mr O, it wasnt able to provide cover. He also didnt think there was anything  further for LV to 
do to help Mr O trace the owner of the wall. Mr O didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
in part. 
Mr O has raised  a number of points and though  Ive considered them  all, in this decision I 
will address  the ones I consider to be the most  important. 
the policy
Mr O has a buildings insurance policy with LV. It covers him for damage  to his house  and 
outbuildings (including walls that he is responsible for) as long as that damage is caused by 
insured perils including flood, storm, fire etc. Mr Os policy  has limited accidental damage  
cover which only covers  pipes, ceramic  hobs and solar panels. The policy  also excludes 
claims arising from wear and tear.
expert evidence
LV has two experts  reports  which say that the collapse of the wall was most likely down to 
wear and tear and that other factors like the shed and the vegetation growth may have 
contributed to this. I havent seen any conflicting expert evidence and for that reason I think  it 
was reasonable  for LV to rely on this evidence and not cover the claim.
Also, as LV pointed out, without knowing whether Mr O owns the wall or not, its not been  
possible to confirm that he can claim on his policy for this event. 
delay
Mr O said LV didnt immediately go to inspect the wall despite it being  dangerous. From  what 
Ive seen when  Mr O notified LV about the wall it told him there was no insured peril i.e. 
nothing that caused the wall to collapse like a storm or flood so it wouldnt cover him. It also 
said there was no cover  for wear and tear and that even if he did own the wall (which  he 
couldnt confirm) it wouldnt cover him. Based on the information  that LV had at the time, I 
Ref: DRN19262364think it acted fairly  and reasonably because if there is no cover its not obliged to visit the 
property.
I see that Mr O called LV again and eventually an appointment with the loss adjuster was 
arranged for 27 February 2019. When LV arranged the appointment it told Mr O it would still 
need to ascertain ownership which it says he understood.
Overall I dont think LV delayed visiting the property because I dont think, under the policy,  it 
had any obligation  to do so at least not without first confirming  that there was cover-  which  is 
something it still hasnt been  able to do.
In any event I note that LV now says it shouldve  helped  Mr O make  the wall safe and paid 
him £250 which is what it says it wouldve cost it to do so. I think  this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
tracing the owner of the wall
Mr O said that LV has the resources to be able to find the owner of the wall. From what  he 
told us he has been trying very hard and has been in contact with a number of authorities  
and organisations but hasnt been able to determine  this himself. So I can understand his 
frustration. LV instructed two experts  in this case-  a loss adjuster and a surveyor.  Neither of 
them was able to definitively say who owns the wall. The surveyor  said a party wall surveyor 
or legal representative would  have  to be instructed to determine this. LV said its enquiries 
show that this is a legal dispute which the policy doesnt cover. 
I cant see that Mr O has legal  cover  under his buildings policy that would cover him for such 
a dispute. But if he has legal cover under another policy  this is something he might want  to 
explore further.  
In any event, as I said above, unless Mr O is able to show that the wall didnt collapse due to 
wear and tear the policy wouldnt cover this claim whether he owns the wall or not.
information request
Mr O said LV didnt confirm to him that it had sent him all the documents he requested.  I 
understand Mr O made a SAR to LV and the loss adjuster. Allegations of breaches of data 
protection law are outside our remit but we can look at whether an insurer  acted fairly and 
reasonably in dealing with a consumer. From what Ive seen LV dealt with Mr Os request 
reasonably. It explained  how he could go about making the SAR request and engaged with 
him in providing  the information hed asked for. Importantly I cant  see that the way it 
handled this request negatively affected Mr Os claim. 
general concerns
Mr O said LV didnt call the builders even  after he gave it their numbers. LV said it tried to 
but was unsuccessful.  I think this is reasonable but in any event as I dont think this claim is 
covered I dont think LV is under any obligation  to do this. 
Mr O said he wanted £50 compensation per week for the 30 weeks LV delayed  dealing with 
the matter. LV offered  £150 in total for not attending Mr Os house  to make the wall safe. I 
think this is reasonable.  As I said above I dont  think LV caused any delays  because  I dont 
Ref: DRN19262365think the claim is covered.  And I dont think LV has any further obligation  under  the policy in 
addition to what its already done,  including obtaining two expert opinions.
If Mr O is able to provide further  evidence in relation to the ownership of the wall he is free to 
go back to LV with this information and ask it to reconsider his claim. But he needs  to bear in 
mind that hed also have to show  that the wall collapsing  wasnt  down to wear and tear but 
caused by something  that the policy would cover  him for. 
I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed with my decision. I understand this had been  a very 
stressful time for him and that he continues to be restricted in the use of his garden. But Im 
here to decide  whether LV dealt with him fairly and reasonably as his buildings  insurer.  And 
for the reasons Ive given,  I think  it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint  in part. Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited  must:
pay Mr O £250  which is what it wouldve paid to make the wall safe. I have considered  
whether Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay interest on this 
amount but I dont  think it does. This is because I dont  think it was obliged  to make  this 
payment under the policy. 
pay Mr O £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused him. 
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited has already  paid these amounts it doesnt  
need to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1926236