K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  about the advice given to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC to start a pension
with the intention of using  the tax-free  cash  lump  sum at retirement  to pay off part of his 
interest only mortgage.
background
In 1990, Mr W applied  for an interest  only mortgage  of £50,000 to purchase a new
home valued at £210,000. A fact find was completed which recorded that Mr W was a
chartered quantity surveyor and a partner  of the firm he worked for. He was earning
£20,000 per annum plus up to £10,000  as a profit share from his stake  in the business -
making him a higher  rate tax payer. It was also recorded that his only retirement  provision
was an old employers paid up pension policy, and that he had two existing endowment
plans.
Mr W took out a pension policy with Scottish Widows through Barclays  which was
meant to be a repayment vehicle for £30,000 of his new interest only mortgage. It was 
invested in a mix of with-profits  funds and unit-linked  funds. It was anticipated that the 
remaining £20,000 of the mortgage was to be repaid using  Mr Ws existing endowment  
policies. The pension policy and the mortgage  both had a term of 25 years  which  is when Mr 
W wouldve  turned 60.
Illustrations provided  to Mr W indicated that based  on Mr W making gross monthly 
contributions of £105.90 per month  and a growth  rate of 10.75%, the 25% tax free cash  
amount available from the pension on maturity would be £30,000, and the remaining 75% 
was to provide  a pension income.  The illustration  also stated that the illustrated funds 
werent guaranteed and pointed to the contract booklet for important  information.
The pension policy matured in 2015 and Mr W encashed the total amount receiving £49,868. 
He complained a few years later as amongst a number of points he felt he was not
warned about  the possibility of a shortfall  in his pension,  and that the product was not fully
explained to him. His representatives, amongst a number of points, said that the assumed 
growth rates used  for the recommendation could not have been achieved and Barclays  
wouldve been aware of this. They said Barclays had a duty to highlight the likelihood of a 
shortfall of such a magnitude in order to put Mr W in a fully informed position.
Barclays said given Mr Ws occupation, the fact that he had existing endowment policies and 
was a higher rate tax payer, a pension  was a suitable mortgage  repayment vehicle for him at 
the time.  
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should not be upheld.  He 
considered that Mr W wouldve had a reasonable amount of knowledge of mortgages  and 
mortgage repayment vehicles given that he worked  in the property industry and had 
previously held an interest only mortgage and an endowment policy  as means  of repaying it. 
In addition, Mr W was self- employed and did not have access to an occupational pension  
scheme. In the circumstances  a personal  pension  was likely to be appropriate to provide the 
lump sum to pay off the mortgage and to provide an income in retirement.  The tax efficiency 
of this method  to repay  the mortgage was significantly enhanced by the fact that Mr W was a 
higher rate tax payer. Whilst  there  were  risks involved with the pension as a repayment 
Ref: DRN11165562vehicle, and there wasnt any evidence to suggest  all of those risks were explained, the 
adjudicator felt that given Mr Ws specific circumstances  he wouldve understood and been 
willing to bear those risks.
He also considered that Barclays had used the standard growth  rates proposed by the 
regulator at the time and widely accepted in the industry. There was insufficient  evidence to 
suggest that Barclays wouldve been aware  that they could not be achieved.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint which I appreciate  will be disappointing. 
Ill explain  my reasons below
The advice complained about  happened  30 years ago and regulations and guidance at the 
time werent  as prescriptive as they were  in later years.  For example no suitability report or 
reasons why letter was required,  and fact finds tended to be shorter and were  often not as 
detailed. So information about what was discussed  back in 1990 is very limited in this case. 
The fact that there  is no detailed  evidence  for the explanations the adviser gave Mr W with 
regards to the risks of a pension-linked  mortgage or what alternatives were potentially  
considered, doesnt  necessarily mean  this didnt  happen. I think  given the different record 
requirements at the time and how long ago this happened,  it would be unfair to assume the 
adviser didnt fulfil their duties based  on the lack of sale documentation.
The adviser had to know their customer, make sure they understood the risks they were 
taking and give suitable advice. So based  on the information I have of Mr Ws circumstances 
at the time I considered whether I thought recommending the pension-linked mortgage was 
suitable for him.
Barclays recorded Mr Ws objectives  in 1990 in a document called what are your financial 
planning needs? which Mr W signed. It said his objectives were  adequate retirement  
provision and the repayment of mortgages  and loans.
I first looked  at whether starting a personal pension,  invested half in with profits  funds and 
half in unit linked funds,  was suitable for Mr W and on balance I think  it was. Apart from a 
small paid up policy Mr W had no retirement  provisions. He was self-employed and didnt 
have access to a workplace pension. So I think it was reasonable to recommend him to start 
a personal pension. I havent  seen  anything to suggest his attitude to risk would have been 
overly cautious. He had a previous endowment policy  and as a partner of a company he had 
just spent personal funds  to buy 5% of the company which also would have carried some 
risk. Mr W also had 25 years to the selected  retirement age of 60 and a good  income,  so I 
think he also had the capacity to take a degree of risk with this pension. The investments 
were standard investments for this sort of plan and I cant see that they were  unsuitable  for 
Mr W.
Ref: DRN11165563The question is whether Mr W should  have been  recommended a pension as a repayment 
vehicle for his mortgage. His representatives  say he should have been advised to take a 
capital repayment  mortgage instead.
Mr W already  had two endowment policies for £20,000 which he had had used as repayment 
policies for a previous mortgage on a property he had sold around  six months  before the 
advice given in 1990. I think its likely he would have wanted  to carry on using  them for his 
new mortgage, rather than stop payments or cash in early which likely would have caused 
high penalties and likely  seemed unattractive. Its worth bearing in mind that projections for 
his policies in 1990 would  have likely  looked like being on track to achieve what was needed. 
So I think he was likely  to use an interest-only mortgage for this part of his borrowing.
As I said before I dont  know whether other  types  of mortgages were  discussed with Mr W. 
But I agree  with the adjudicator that due to him working in the property industry Mr W would 
have more likely than not known about the difference of an interest-only  mortgage and a 
repayment mortgage, even though I appreciate mortgages might not have been the main 
aspect of his day to day business.  So I think he wouldve understood the risks of an 
interest-only mortgage.
Pension-linked mortgages do carry additional  risks. The most pertinent one is of course  the 
risk of a shortfall when  the capital repayment of the mortgage becomes due. Other than the 
risk of the investments not performing  as expected,  the risk of a shortfall can be enhanced 
by a consumer  not continuing to pay in premiums, for example due to unemployment or a 
decrease in income  or if they have the opportunity to pay into an occupational  pension and 
have to stop paying into the personal  pension. Also there was the risk of possible  future  
legislation changes in pensions which could stop the availability of a tax-free cash  lump sum 
or changes  to tax relief  on pension contributions. 
These arent  insignificant  risks and its possible not all of this was explained  to Mr W. I simply 
dont know. As explained  previously  I dont have much evidence  from the date of sale and I 
have to consider  that this happened  30 years ago, so Mr W not recalling this being 
discussed, doesnt mean it wasnt. I wouldnt  expect  him to remember  everything from a 
conversation that was such a long time ago. But in any event, I dont think knowing about  the 
risks would have changed  Mr Ws mind. I say this for the following reasons. 
I have taken into account that Mr Ws mortgage was £30,000 (of a total mortgage of 
£50,000) on a £210,000  property. So the loan to value was low. Mr W was a 35-year old 
professional on a good income and was a partner in a firm. So I think there was reasonable 
prospect of his salary  increasing over the following twenty-five years  and the likelihood of 
him being able to make up any shortfalls by savings or other investments. Mr W also was a 
higher rate tax payer so the tax relief on the pension  mortgage would have been an 
attractive benefit. And as I said before I havent seen anything that makes me think  Mr W 
was unwilling to take some risks or that he wouldnt have understood that the benefits  in the 
pension werent  guaranteed.
I understand that Mr Ws representatives  main argument is that even if Mr W was prepared 
to take some  risks and was attracted to the benefits, the personal pension would never have 
been able to achieve returns  of 10.75% over 25 years which were needed to provide a lump 
sum of £30,000 to pay off the mortgage.  Barclays should have known there was a 
guaranteed shortfall. So the product wasnt fit for purpose.
Ref: DRN11165564The illustrations provided in 1990  used  the growth  rates provided by the regulator. 10.75% 
was in the middle of the regulators  low rate of 8.5% and high rate of 13%. At the time these  
projections seemed  generally achievable.  I appreciate Mr Ws pension  included with profit 
funds which  also would  have included lower risk assets and therefore might  not have 
achieved as high returns as say equity funds.  However, I dont think this means a medium 
growth rate could  never  have  been achieved.
For all the reasons mentioned above, I think given  Mr Ws particular circumstances at the 
time and the size of the loan he had linked to the pension, I dont think  the pension  mortgage 
was inherently unsuitable  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1116556