K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Assurant General  Insurance  Limited (Assurant) has declined  claims he 
made under his gadget  insurance policy.
background
In October 2018 Mr K needed to claim  for his tablet and laptop. He explained to Assurant 
that these items had been stolen from within his friends car.
Mr K explained that he went  a restaurant to have a meal, and whilst he was in the 
restaurant his belongings  were kept in the storage area at the back of the car. Mr K said he 
was confident that he was leaving  his items  in the safest place available   because the rear 
left and right windows, as well as the back window of the car were tinted. So, he felt no one 
would be able to look in and see his belongings in the rear of the car. But, when he returned 
to the car the back window had been  broken,  and his items had been taken.
Assurant considered Mr Ks claims and declined them. It said it wasnt able to provide 
a settlement for either the tablet or laptop,  because the terms and conditions of
Mr Ks policy  had been breached.
In terms of Mr Ks tablet, Assurant said Mr K had breached a condition  in his policy  which 
explained he must take care of his devices. It said that by leaving the item in the car whilst 
going into the restaurant Mr K had failed to take care of the tablet, or take reasonable 
steps to prevent the theft occurring. It said that because  Mr K had breached  this condition 
it could not provide a settlement for the tablet.
In terms of Mr Ks laptop   it said Mr Ks policy only covered items that had a purchase 
price of up to £1,500  at the time it was bought.  It said Mr Ks laptop had a purchase price  
that was higher  than this. So, in line with the terms of the policy it wouldnt pay for this item 
either.
Mr K didnt think this was fair. He said he had taken care to look after his tablet. And he 
reiterated he had left this in the safest place available to him. Mr K also disputed  the 
purchase price of his laptop. He noted there  had been some confusion  about what  the laptop  
had cost, because  he had purchased the item abroad, and Assurant hadnt used the correct 
exchange rate when  calculating the purchase  price of the item.
Because Mr K disagreed  he referred his complaint to his service  for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be partially  upheld.  He 
thought Assurant had acted fairly in declining to settlement Mr Ks claim  for his laptop. He 
said the purchase price  of the item was over the £1,500 the policy  provided  cover for. So, he 
didnt ask it do anything  more about this item.  But, he thought Assurant hadnt been 
reasonable when declining Mr Ks claim for the tablet. He said Mr K had taken adequate 
measures to protect his tablet whilst  it was in the car. So he thought Assurant should provide 
settlement for this item.
Assurant didnt agree. It said Mr K hadnt  taken reasonable  care of his tablet. It felt Mr K had 
accepted a risk when  leaving his items  in the car, and this wasnt  a risk that it covered.
Because Assurant  didnt  agree this complaint  has been referred  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN19452842I sent a provision decision to Mr K and Assurant on 17 May 2019. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending on 
upholding this complaint. Ive explained  why below.
tablet
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy,  to see what  cover his policy  
provides. From doing so I can see Mr Ks policy does provide cover for theft. But, Im also 
aware the policy explains that the policyholder must  take care of their devices. The policy 
explains what taking care of a device means.
It says;
Taking care of your device means  
Not knowingly leaving your device  somewhere  it is likely to be lost stolen or damage.
Just think, would you leave your wallet  or purse there?
If you need to leave your device  somewhere  then we expect  you to lock it away out
of sight  if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with someone  
you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
()
If you knowingly leave your device  where  others can see it but you cannot,  and your device
is lost or stolen we may not pay your claim.
The policy booklet  then gives some examples of when it may decline a claim for not taking 
care of a device. This includes leaving a device somewhere  the policyholder cant see it but 
others can, and leaving  a device on display in the car.
Assurant has said the above applies in this case.  It says Mr Ks items may have been locked 
away, but it says these werent concealed as the policy requires them  to be. It said Mr Ks 
items must have been visible through the windows in the car, despite  the presence  of tinted 
windows, because the back window was smashed to gain access  to the items.
Assurant has said its exclusion applies in this instance. I think based  on the evidence thats 
reasonable. Its clear  the car was broken into as the items  in it could be seen. And insurers  
put this exclusion  in the policy for exactly this situation.
Its clear Mr K foresaw a risk of the items  coming to harm  he has explained he put them in 
the back because  he thought this was the safest place available. But, I dont think  he took 
adequate steps to reduce  this risk.
Because of the above, Im satisfied Assurant acted reasonably in declining Mr Ks claim for 
the tablet. So, I dont intend  on asking  it to do anything more in this respect.
Ref: DRN19452843laptop
As above, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy, to see what  cover it 
provides. Having done so, Im aware the policy does clearly  explain that it wont provide 
cover for any device that had a purchase price of over £1,500 when it was bought. So, Im 
satisfied that if the purchase price of Mr Ks device was above  £1,500  when it was bought  
the item isnt covered by the policy.
Assurant has said Mr K provided it with a receipt  showing  he purchased the item abroad, 
and detailing  how much  he had paid for it. It said that when it considered  the exchange rate 
at the time the item was bought in August 2018, Mr K had paid an equivalent of £3,244.65 
for the item.
Mr K disputed this assessment, and said the purchase price of the laptop  would not have 
been more than £2,000,  but he had bought it much  cheaper.  Ive looked at the exchange 
rate in August 2018 and the purchase price detailed on the invoice Mr K has provided.  And 
based on this Im satisfied  that Assurant came to a reasonable assessment  in saying the 
purchase price was higher than £1,500.
In any event, in November 2018,  four months  after Mr K had bought  his laptop, Mr K also 
provided Assurant with a screenshot,  showing how much his laptop could be purchased for 
online. This noted the purchase  price of the laptop  was £1,728.98. This figure was provided 
in close proximity to when  Mr K purchased his own item. And the price  of technology like this 
generally decreases over time. So Im satisfied  this sufficiently evidences  that the purchase  
price of the laptop  when Mr K bought it was above  the purchase  price Mr Ks policy  provides 
cover for. So, I think it acted fairly in declining Mr Ks claim for this item.
Both parties  received my provisional decision. Assurant hasnt made  any further comments,  
or provided  any new evidence on the matter. Mr K responded  and said he didnt agree. He 
said;
the rear windscreen  of the vehicle benefited from the maximum tinting available. So, 
it would  have been impossible for anyone to have seen through the glass.  
he had been  fully aware of the terms and conditions of his policy,  and his decision to 
leave items in the car was made after checking  where his items  were visible  through 
the window. He found there was zero visibility  through  the window, and he was 
satisfied he was being compliant with his policy terms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint for the same  reasons as detailed in my provisional decision.
Neither party has raised any further  comments  or evidence in respect of Mr Ks laptop. So, I 
wont discuss this any further.  But Mr K has raised some  points  in respect of his tablet. 
Ref: DRN19452844Mr K has said it wasnt possible  to see his items  through  the rear windscreen  of the car they 
were stored in  because  the level of tinting  on this window was at a maximum. Ive thought 
carefully about what hes said. I havent seen  any firm evidence to show  the vehicle the cars 
were stored in did have  maximum tinting  on the rear windscreen.  But, even if the car did 
have this level of tint on the rear windscreen  I dont  think this changes  the outcome of Mr Ks 
complaint. I still think its clear the car was broken  into because it was possible to see items 
were stored in there   perhaps  through another window  of the car. And insurers do put this 
exclusion in the policy for exactly  this situation. 
Its clear Mr K foresaw a risk of the items  coming to harm  he has explained he put them in 
the back because  he thought this was the safest place available. And that he had 
considered the terms and conditions of his policy when leaving his items in the car. But, I 
dont think he took adequate steps  to reduce this risk, or ensure compliance  with his policy 
terms.
Because of the above, Im satisfied Assurant acted reasonably in declining Mr Ks claim for 
the tablet. So, I dont intend  on asking  it to do anything more.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1945284