K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with his mortgage.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1996. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
The policy wouldve covered  his repayments for up to 12 months at a time if Mr S was 
unable to work through redundancy.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
Where there isnt much evidence or theres contradictory evidence  for me to consider,  I need  
to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I 
do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I think  most 
likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. I explain why below.
I think Nationwide made Mr S aware that he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and he 
chose to take it. I say that because Nationwide has been able to provide a copy  of the 
mortgage application form. On this application  I can see that to get the PPI Mr S had to tick a 
yes box. I can see that the yes box was ticked on Mr Ss mortgage  application form for the 
PPI. Had Mr S not wanted to take the PPI he could have ticked the No box next to it. So I 
think its most likely  Mr S knew this was something he could say No to. There  is no 
language in the documentation that implies  or states  that they had to take the cover to get 
the mortgage. And Ive also noted that Mr S elected  not to have full cover but to elect  to have 
just unemployment  cover. This suggests some sort of conversation about the policy  and its 
options. So it seems  most  likely that Mr S chose to take the cover,  and did so knowing he 
had a choice to do so. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI, so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right for 
Mr S. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. Its possible that the information  Nationwide gave Mr S about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it couldve been. But considering his circumstances  at the time of the sale,  I dont 
think that clearer information about  the policy would have led Mr S to make a different 
decision. 
Ref: DRN13023662I say this because  Mr S was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Mr S seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mr S told us that he would  have  received  only statutory sick pay and that he had no other 
means to rely on if he lost his job, such that he might have had to ask his parents  for 
support. Mr S told us he was planning  to rent out his second  bedroom and that may have 
helped. But the PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if he was unable  to work if 
he lost his job and that would have  met his mortgage costs leaving the rent he expected to 
receive to reduce Mr Ss reliance on whatever help his family may have been in a position to 
provide. So, considering all of the above, and the potentially serious consequences  of 
defaulting on a loan secured on the home in which you live, I think its most likely that Mr S 
wouldve found the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I dont think  that better  information  would have 
led Mr S to avoid the policy. So, I dont think  it most likely that Mr S has lost out due to 
anything that Nationwide  may have  done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint  against  Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1302366