complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited hasnt accepted  full liability  for damage  to her 
property under her buildings  insurance policy. 
background
The investigator has already set out an extensive  background in his view, so I dont intend to 
repeat this in full here. 
In summary,  Mrs B reported a leak with an underground pipe in 2016. Her claim was 
accepted, and Aviva carried  out repairs. However,  foul-water was then found  pooling in the 
sub-floor of Ms Bs home. Despite removing this a number of times, it has continued to 
return.  
Aviva says the foul water in the sub-floor hasnt  been caused  by an insured event, and thinks  
lack of maintenance has allowed water  to enter the property. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He thought both parties  had 
provided reports which were conflicting, and neither party  had been  able to confirm the 
cause of the foul water pooling  in the sub-floor. To resolve the matter, he thought  Aviva  
should arrange for a further inspection  of the sub-floor and drains to take place by an 
independent surveyor  to establish the cause of this. He thought  Aviva  should have arranged 
this earlier, and recommended  it pay Mrs B £250 compensation for not doing so. He also 
recommended it reimburse  Mrs B for the cost of the survey shed arranged. 
Aviva didnt agree to all of our investigators  findings, so the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In 2016, Mrs B made a successful claim under the policy for accidental damage  to an 
underground pipe that was causing  the drains in her kitchen and utility room to be blocked. 
Aviva fixed  the damage.
Foul water was then discovered in the sub-floor  of Mrs Bs home. Although Aviva didnt think 
this was caused by the drains, it arranged  for the water to be pumped  out. Unfortunately,  the 
water then returned. Further problems were then found with the drains,  which were then 
repaired. Despite  this, the foul water  kept returning.
I see that in 2017  the contractor thought the water  within the sub-floor was coming  through 
worn benching  in a manhole. It was thought that was gradual damage.  
Aviva then arranged  for the contractor to repair the benching to the manhole and remove  the 
water again.  This was done, however again the water came back. 
Mrs B also reported problems with her kitchen floor, as part of it was starting to collapse.  
Avivas surveyor  thought the following  issues contributed  to the standing  water in the sub-
floor: problems with the chemical  injection;  gradient of driveway; fitting of external air vents; 
Ref: DRN1208880water ingress into the garage area because of lack of maintenance; no guttering  to rear 
porch; natural  gradient from front and rear elevations; boiler vent pipe leaking; and manhole 
cover in rear garden damaged. It thought the problems with the kitchen floor were  caused by 
pipework leaking under the kitchen sink, and a poorly fitted back  door. 
Mrs B arranged for her own inspection to take place  by a surveyor. Unfortunately,  the 
surveyor didnt carry out any investigations  to the sub-floor or the drains. 
The surveyor did go into some detail about the condition of the property, and its apparent 
there are maintenance issues. However, I dont think Aviva can reasonably conclude that 
these have all caused water to pool in the sub-floor - particularly since  its thought to be foul 
water. That being the case, I think the only sensible way forward  would  be for Aviva to 
arrange for an independent  inspection to take place of the sub-floor and the drains  to 
establish the source of the foul water. 
I understand the parties have both agreed  to this following our investigators  involvement, 
and have agreed upon a surveyor. It would seem the inspection  has been delayed  given the 
current situation with COVID-19, but I would expect Aviva to arrange this as soon as 
possible (taking into account Government advice).  
Given the number  of drain repairs  that were needed,  and that foul water continued to enter 
the sub-floor space even after the repairs were done, I think  Aviva  should have arranged for 
a full inspection  to take place to find the source  of the foul water much  sooner, rather than 
Mrs B arranging her own inspection. Aviva should therefore reimburse Mrs B for the cost of 
the survey, and also pay her £250 compensation for its failure to arrange an earlier  
inspection. 
Mrs Bs surveyor noted that part of the kitchen floor had collapsed. He thought  this may have 
been caused by excavation of the drains whilst  previous  repairs were undertaken, or decay 
of the timber from coming into contact with the foul water  within  the sub-floor. However,  
Avivas surveyor  thinks  the problems have been caused by a previous leak under the sink 
which wasnt fixed, and a poorly fitted  back door. 
Given the conflicting opinions, I think the surveyor should reach a view on this when the 
inspection is carried out. If it transpires that the cause of the collapse is the previous 
excavation of the drains or as a result of an insured peril, I would expect Aviva to put right 
the damage. 
Mrs Bs surveyor recommended several  floorboards, walls and joists in the ground floor be 
inspected by a timber and damp specialist for decay, given how long theyd been  in contact 
with the foul water within the sub-floor. Aviva has now agreed  to arrange this, which  I think is 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to do the 
following:
-Arrange for a surveyor  to carry out an independent  inspection  to establish the source 
of the foul water  pooling  in the sub-floor, and the damage to the kitchen floor. If this is 
found to be caused  by its previous drain  repairs or an insured peril, it should put right 
the damage. 
Ref: DRN1208880-Arrange for a damp specialist to inspect the relevant timbers,  walls and joists for 
decay as a result  of being in contact with the foul water.  
-Reimburse Mrs B for the cost of the survey. Interest  should be added  at the rate of 
8% simple per annum from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement. 
-Pay Mrs B £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
 If Aviva Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1208880