K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP gave him loans that he couldnt  afford  to 
repay.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2019.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Mr G and 
Uncle Buck  have said they have nothing more to add. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither Mr G nor 
Uncle Buck  have given  me any additional  comments or evidence I see no reason  to alter the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I dont think a responsible lender should  have thought that Mr G could  sustainably  afford the 
repayment needed on his second loan. I think Uncle Buck needs to pay Mr G some  
compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Mr G on 11 April 2015  (loan  2). So for 
that loan Uncle Buck should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loan. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Gs complaint and direct Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.  
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12574292EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave him loans that he couldnt  afford to repay.
background
Mr G was given three loans  by Uncle Buck between March and November 2015. Mr Gs first two 
loans were repayable in a single instalment  when he was next paid. His final loan was repayable  in 
three monthly instalments. All of Mr Gs borrowing  from Uncle Buck has been fully repaid and a 
summary of that borrowing  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 13/03/2015 24/03/2015 £ 100
2 11/04/2015 21/04/2015 £ 200
3 25/11/2015 31/12/2015 £ 200
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought  that the checks  Uncle 
Buck did before agreeing the first loan had been sufficient. But he thought Uncle  Buck should have 
done more checks before agreeing the last two loans. And he thought  that the information Uncle Buck 
had about Mr G should  have  led to it declining  his second loan request.  So he asked Uncle Buck to 
pay Mr G some compensation.
Both Mr G and Uncle Buck  didnt agree with that assessment. Uncle  Buck still thought that its checks 
had been proportionate and showed that Mr G could afford each of the loans. And Mr G thought that 
the adjudicator  had overestimated his disposable income. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Uncle Buck was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether Mr G could 
afford to pay back each  loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be proportionate to things 
such as the amount Mr G was borrowing,  and his lending history, but there was no set list of checks 
Uncle Buck had to do.
Uncle Buck has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr G. Before agreeing each loan it 
asked him for details of his income, and his normal  monthly expenditure. And Uncle Buck says it 
checked Mr Gs credit  file before each loan too. Uncle  Buck has given  us a summary of the results it 
received from the first two checks, and a full copy of the results for the final check.
I can see those results showed that Mr G hadnt experienced any financial difficulties in the past three 
years. But the more detailed results do show a number of defaults  dating back  to 2011. I have 
considered carefully whether these should have prompted Uncle Buck to do additional checks  before 
lending to Mr G. But on balance I think it was reasonable for Uncle  Buck to conclude  that the credit 
check results  suggested that Mr G had managed his finances  well for a number of years. And so 
I dont think additional  checks were needed as a result.
Ref: DRN12574293I think  that the checks Uncle  Buck  did before lending to Mr G were  proportionate. Each of the loans 
was relatively modest compared to the income hed declared. And there was a gap of over seven 
months between Mr G repaying  his second loan and being approved for his third. I have  considered 
that there were  a number of incomplete applications made during  that time.  But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr Gs applications  were declined rather than him simply deciding  not to 
proceed with his loan requests. So I think it was entirely  reasonable for Uncle Buck to rely entirely on 
the information Mr G provided about his disposable income when  assessing the affordability of these 
loans.
But simply performing  proportionate  checks isnt always  enough. A lender also needs to react  to the 
information those checks show. Mr G told Uncle Buck that he was earning £2,088 each month. And 
he said that his normal expenditure  across a range of categories amounted to £1,871 each  month.  So 
that would mean that Mr G had just £217 left over to repay any new borrowing.
Mr G needed to repay around £110 on his first loan, and to pay three instalments  of around £99 on 
his third loan.  I think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck to conclude that these repayments were 
affordable for Mr G. But Mr G needed to repay just over £214 on his second loan. I dont think that it 
was reasonable for Uncle Buck to conclude  that repayment was sustainable for Mr G given how close 
it was to his declared disposable income. It would only have needed  a small  unexpected expense to 
crop up to leave Mr G unable to meet his loan repayment.
Uncle Buck has pointed out that when  making his complaint Mr G has declared a different level of 
expenditure than he did at the time. And if I were to use that expenditure  it would  mean that the 
second loan was affordable.  But Mr G has also declared  a different level of income, and using that 
alongside the expenditure, would mean the loan was even more unaffordable.
But I dont think any of that matters here. Uncle  Buck didnt have any indication that two years later 
Mr G might make  a different declaration of his income  and expenditure. It based its lending decision 
on the information Mr G provided at the time. And I think it was entirely reasonable for it to do so  it 
had no reason to doubt what Mr G was saying.  But the information Mr G provided  should have 
caused it to decline  his second loan request.
I dont currently think a responsible lender should have thought that Mr G could  sustainably afford the 
repayment needed on his second loan. I think Uncle  Buck  needs to pay Mr G some compensation.
Ref: DRN1257429