K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the amount  of compensation HSBC  UK Bank  Plc offered following 
a complaint about a credit  card payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy he took out in 
2004.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the commission and profit share HSBC got due to the 
PPI on Mr Ds credit card.  Thats because the mis-sale of the PPI on the credit card was 
dealt with by HSBC in 2014  and the issues Mr D has mentioned about his loans are being  
dealt with separately.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  issued 
some new rules about how businesses should  deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
HSBC said that the level of commission  and profit share it received did create  an unfair  
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr D paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr D for the time they were out of pocket.
Mr D has said he is unhappy with the offer that HSBC has made. But HSBC  has done  what  
the rules it must follow tell it to do.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ds particular complaint and 
circumstances that means HSBC  should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling him about  the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling HSBC  to do anything more.
Ref: DRN14093242my final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has correctly worked out what it needs to pay Mr D.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  update  and pay its offer to Mr D if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1409324