K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how Fairmead  Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
background
Mrs W suffered  fire damage  to her home and Fairmead arranged to remove  her contents  to 
enable repairs to the property to take place. The contents had suffered damage from the 
effects of the fire and were  to be cleaned and returned if they were  not beyond  economic 
repair. When I refer to Fairmead I include their contractors, assessors  and other agents.
Mrs W tells us that some of her contents, including items of silver jewellery were not returned 
and hadnt been identified  as being  beyond economic repair so not included in the 
settlement of the claim.  She says that the bag containing the jewellery was identical to the 
bags used for contents that were to be destroyed due to being too severely damaged  to be 
repaired or cleaned.  And feels the bag containing  jewellery was thrown away  by mistake.  
Mrs W says she is only concerned  about  the missing  jewellery  as its of sentimental as well 
as intrinsic value and isnt bothered about  the other contents of the bag. 
Fairmead say they handled the removal of her contents professionally and arranged  for 
items to be cleaned as appropriate. And tell us they returned items to Mrs W that were 
deemed beyond  economic  repair  at her request rather  than destroying  them.  They say that 
the nature  of the claim will have resulted in a certain amount of distress and inconvenience. 
And say the dispute over the missing jewellery has resulted in her experiencing a greater 
level of distress and inconvenience.  In recognition of this they have offered Mrs W £200. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this and feels the value is in the region of £500  to £1,000. So she 
brought her complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the available  evidence, including inventory lists which Mrs W had 
signed. And spoke  to a friend  of Mrs W who was present when the contents  were removed 
and considered Mrs Ws account and the testimony  of Fairleads contactors. She explained 
that whilst  this service considers testimonies,  we prefer  hard,  written  evidence. And she 
couldnt see evidence  that the silver jewellery  was removed  by Fairmead so couldnt say 
they lost the items. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs W remained unhappy and has asked that an ombudsman decide her case.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigators view, and largely for the same reasons.
It is for the policy holder to substantiate  their claim and it was clear  there  had been a fire at 
Mrs Ws home that caused extensive damage. Fairmead accepted the claim and progressed 
it, arranging and agreeing to repairs to the building and to replace or repair  the contents in 
accordance with the policy  terms and conditions. The claim appears to have been 
reasonably well handled and this dispute only relates to items of jewellery that have gone 
missing, worth an estimated £500  to £1000. Whilst I dont doubt  what  Mrs W says,  she 
hasnt substantiated or evidenced her claim for the missing  jewellery.  
Ref: DRN13118742From what  I can see Fairmead have taken Mrs Ws complaint seriously and asked its 
contractors to investigate. And the contractors  area operations manager  met with Mrs W as 
part of this investigation. And it sought testimonies from the contractors who removed the 
contents. The contractors  are confident that they didnt dispose of any silver jewellery.
Ive considered the testimony of the contractors, Mrs W and her friend. And looked  at 
detailed inventory taken at the time the contents  were removed. Mrs W has stated  that the 
inventory is only of the items that were to be disposed of as they were beyond economic  
repair. And that the bags for disposal  were  the same  as the bags for items  to be repaired,  so 
could have become  mixed  up. It is not for this service  to comment  on the processes followed 
and the types  of bags used. The inventory shows many items as being smoke damaged 
which are not shown as beyond  economic repair. And I put more  weight to the evidence I 
can see and on balance  Im not persuaded that Fairmead are responsible for the missing 
items.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Fairmead Insurance Limited  to do 
anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1311874