K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained to Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) about a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out with their mortgage. 
background
In 2005 Mr and Mrs K took a PPI policy (policy number ending  9348) with their mortgage.  
Mr K became unwell  in 2005 and had to stop working. 
Mr and Mrs K later made  a subject access request to Barclays  and found out they had a PPI 
policy but it was only in the name of Mrs K. 
Mr and Mrs K say this is wrong. They say the policy should have been in their joint names   
the same  as the mortgage. They want the policy  benefits to be paid out for Mr K for the time 
he was too unwell to work. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He didn't think it should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs K disagreed so it has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
Both parties  have been given the opportunity  to give me any further information or evidence 
for my consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr and Mrs Ks response to the adjudicator writing to them to let them  know  that their 
complaint would be passed to an ombudsman to consider, they said they had information  
that should be discussed with whichever ombudsman takes their file. 
I should explain to Mr and Mrs K that in general  we expect  all parties  to a complaint to have  
given us what evidence  and information  they consider should be taken into account.  This 
was made  clear in the adjudicators correspondence  with Mr and Mrs K. We usually dont 
find it necessary to speak  with the parties  as we would expect to have  everything  on file to 
look at a complaint.  I also note from the file that the adjudicator tried to contact  Mr and Mrs K 
on many  occasions to discuss their complaint. So, Im satisfied that in this case, both parties  
have had the opportunity to make their representations and that I have sufficient information 
for me to make a final decision. 
Due to the length of time since the PPI was taken, Barclays has very limited  information 
about the policy, or how it was taken. I dont find this surprising as businesses  arent 
expected to keep records or documents indefinitely. But it did manage to get confirmation 
from its insurer that the policy was in the name of Mrs K only but because  of the length of 
time, there isnt any evidence to show why this was. 
Ref: DRN10311632The records  Barclays has been  able to give us about the products Mr and Mrs K had, also 
confirm that a MortgageCare PPI policy was taken  in March 2005 and was due to end in 
March 2010. The policyholder was Mrs K only. 
I dont know the reason  for Mr K not being included on the policy.  But that doesnt lead me to 
conclude that Barclays didn't act correctly in setting up the policy in Mrs Ks name  only.  
There isnt anything to suggest this. Nor do I agree with Mr and Mrs Ks comment that 
Barclays must have deliberately removed Mr Ks name from the policy.  Again, there isnt any 
reason to suggest this is what happened and I dont  know of any reason why Barclays would 
have done this. 
Mr and Mrs K say that because the mortgage was in their joint names, then so should  the 
PPI policy. But this isnt correct. There can be many reasons  for having a policy in a single  
name only  one party to the mortgage  only working  part-time as an example - which  might  
make the policy  inappropriate as a consumer  may not be able to benefit from the policy. Or 
claiming on the policy might be more  difficult.  So its not necessarily relevant that the 
mortgage itself was in joint names.
And I see the adjudicator has already commented  that Mr K was suffering ill health  so this 
could be a reason  why he was not added to the policy. Having a pre-existing medical 
condition would normally be excluded from the policy terms. And Mr K had separate  cover in 
place so might not have  thought it necessary to be covered again with the 2005  policy,  or a 
second policy may have  limited his ability to claim on the first policy. 
The policy insurer confirmed to Barclays that it didn't have any record  of a claim being made 
in 2005 for Mr K so at that time Mr and Mrs K may have been aware that he wasnt covered 
by the policy.  And particularly bearing  in mind  the policy  was only taken out in the March of 
that year. 
But the insurer has been able to confirm  that Mrs K made a successful claim against the 
policy in 2008  for £6,594.71 which would suggest that at that time Mrs K was aware she had 
a policy  in her name. But I accept  that by paying out for a claim for Mrs K, this would not 
have precluded Mr K from being  on the policy as well. 
I do realise the policy was taken  nearly  15 years ago and memories can, and do, fade over 
time. I also accept that buying insurance isnt a particularly memorable experience so it may 
be the case that Mr and Mrs K have  forgotten the details of the policy.
I know Mr and Mrs K will be extremely disappointed by my conclusion,  as I know  they feel 
very strongly  about their complaint. But there  isnt sufficient evidence to show that the policy  
should have been in their joint names  in the first instance, or that Barclays  removed Mr Ks 
name from the policy at a later date. 
Ref: DRN10311633my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about Mr K not being 
included on the MortgageCare  policy. It follows that I wont  be asking Barclays  Bank Plc to 
do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1031163