K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. Mr W 
says Allianz Insurance plc (Marks  and Spencer (M&S) at the time) mis-sold him the policy. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Allianz throughout this decision rather  than M&S.
background
The policy was sold in 1998 when Mr W applied  for a M&S account card. The monthly 
benefit was 15% of the outstanding balance at the date of claim and it covered him in the 
event of accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment.
Mr W complained  about the sale of the policy. But he was unhappy with the response  he got 
from Allianz, so he referred  the complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at it and 
came to the opinion that the policy hadnt been  mis-sold. 
However, as Mr W disagreed, the complaint  was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
And having done all of that, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold. I realise  this will be 
disappointing for Mr W. But I hope  he will understand and accept why Ive come  to this 
decision.
Mr W says that he felt pressured into taking the policy and believed he had to take it. I dont 
doubt the honesty of his recollections. But he hasnt  told us in much  detail why he felt 
pressured or why he believed  he had to take PPI. This isnt that surprising or unreasonable 
as the event in question  did take place over 20 years ago. However, the length  of time since  
the sale, and its effect  on the extent to which recollections prove persuasive, is something I 
have to consider  when  weighing  up whats likely  to have happened.
Allianz has provided us with a copy of Mr Ws account application form. And having  looked 
at it, while  it is difficult  to decipher in places,  the section on PPI did present him with a choice 
to make as I cant see anything in that section or elsewhere on the form to suggest  he had to 
take such cover. And as he did tick and sign to take the policy,  Im satisfied he agreed to do 
so. 
I accept its possible that Mr W agreed to take the policy  because  he was made  to feel as if 
he had to despite the choice given to him on the application form. But pressure is a 
subjective area. What  might feel like pressure  to one person  might not feel that way to 
another. And as I dont know what actually happened in 1998, having  not been  present 
during the sale,  I have  to rely on what both parties  have said and provided throughout the 
course of this complaint. But when doing that, I have to come  to a decision thats based on 
whats probable  rather than merely possible. And with that being the case,  there isnt any 
Ref: DRN14789042persuasive evidence   contemporaneous  or otherwise  to suggest that its more likely than 
not that Mr W was pressured.
As a result, this leaves  me with the rest of the sale to consider. Businesses invariably sold 
PPI in one of two ways:  with or without  a recommendation.  And it was this choice that often  
determined what a business  obligations were during the sale.
Mr W says the policy  was recommended to him. I acknowledge that the PPI section on his 
account application form did include the words  we strongly recommend you take cover by 
ticking the box. But theres nothing persuasive  to suggest it was a personal recommendation 
in light of what Allianz knew about  his needs and circumstances. And as the application form 
was one that was likely to have been completed  by hundreds if not thousands of customers, 
the statement  Ive referred to above   while designed perhaps to encourage those applying 
for an account to consider PPI  appears  to have been generic.
With that said, therefore, Im not persuaded Allianz  had to do anything  more than provide 
Mr W with the information  he needed to decide  for himself whether taking PPI was right for 
him by making the significant  features of the policy clear.
It is possible the information Allianz gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But its not possible to pin point  exactly  what information  wasnt shared  though  
experience tells me, for example, that Allianz might  not have made the real cost and benefit 
of the policy  clear. However,  it isnt necessary to point out the information failings in such a 
specific way because, even if Allianz hadnt  made clear any of the significant features of the 
policy, I still have to weigh up whether  Mr Ws decision  to take the policy was likely to have 
been prejudiced as a result. 
And having looked at what we know about  Mr Ws circumstances,  Im not persuaded theres 
the evidence to argue his decision was likely to have been prejudiced because of the 
possible information failings by Allianz.  
I say this because  it doesnt  look like Mr W was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the cover   which means the policy would have  been  useful for him if something went  
wrong. I know he says he was entitled to some sick pay and redundancy from his employer 
 referring consistently  to six months  full pay despite  there  being  some uncertainty over what 
it might  have been. So I have thought about his other means carefully.  However, he was 
entering into a financial  commitment with repayments to maintain.  And the policy would  have 
helped him to do that over a reasonable period of time had he found himself  out of or unable 
to work  while also freeing up his other means  to use elsewhere. Whats  more, theres 
nothing persuasive  to suggest  he took PPI not knowing what his own financial circumstances 
were. And as the PPI section of the application  form made it clear that the policy  covered 
him in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment, Im not persuaded he would have 
reached a different decision  to the one he actually took  especially in light of what the 
monthly benefit was and the cost of the policy relative to the benefit.
Mr W has also argued that he wouldnt  have  benefited from the policy because it didnt pay 
out for any period of unemployment during  which a sum was paid in lieu of notice. However, 
PPI policies, like every type of insurance policy, were designed to protect policyholders  only 
when certain insurable events materialised.  Unemployment  was one such  event. And 
according to the relevant terms and conditions,  it was defined as being entirely without paid 
work. That, in my view,  isnt inconsistent with the notion of unemployment as it was or is 
ordinarily understood. And with that being  the case, it doesnt strike  me as unusual  or 
Ref: DRN14789043unreasonable to cover  claims for redundancy only after a notice period ends as it is only at 
that time that the policyholder could be said to be without paid work. 
As a result, Im not persuaded  the term in question was a significant feature of the policy that 
Allianz should have made  clear. And so, even if it wasnt drawn to Mr Ws attention,  I dont 
think its a reason to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1478904