K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged  bank account it 
called an Advance  Bank Account (ABA)  in 2006.
background
Mr P came into the UK in late 2004.  In 2006  he needed a bank account. He took out an ABA 
with HSBC in June 2006 which incurred  a monthly fee.
Mr P says that he spoke  and read very little English in 2006 and he says he was given no 
choice but to buy the ABA, when  a fee free account  wouldve been better for him. 
The ABA was later re-named an Insurance  Aspects  Package with a different price  and 
benefits but for ease of understanding Ill refer to the whole of the account  as an ABA.
HSBC doesnt  accept that the ABA was mis-sold.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint about  the ABA but HSBC  disagrees so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P says he didnt understand English at all well in 2006 and it wasnt made clear to him by 
HSBC that he could have had a fee free bank account. He says HSBC told him he had to 
have an ABA to get a credit  card,  overdraft  or loan.
In my view you would need a good  standard of speaking and reading English to understand 
the various types of bank account  available and to fill in the documentation  required to open  
an account. HSBC  agrees  that it had a conversation  in a branch prior to opening the 
account. The key issue in this complaint is whether Mr P was given a proper choice or not 
when he bought the ABA.
Mr P says his standard of speaking  English was limited  and his reading of English  was poor. 
I find this credible as it is not his first language, and although by 2006 he had been in this 
country for 18 months,  its not uncommon for people  not to develop their language skills in 
such a short period of time when living in another country. I also note that he says he wrote 
his recent  complaint originally in his own language and had it translated  for him. 
Mr P says that HSBC  told him in 2006  that it would  send him notification  of anything  that 
changed his account in his own language  and ask for his authorisation in advance. HSBC 
has not refuted  this. This indicates to me that HSBC was aware of his difficulties in 
communicating in English.
In Mr Ps home  country, it was usual for fees to be paid for bank accounts. So I think its 
credible that Mr P would  need it drawn  to his attention that he could choose to take out a fee 
free bank account. I also find it credible that HSBC  did not provide Mr P with sufficient 
Ref: DRN15606662information in a way he could understand. I say this because HSBC has not provided any 
evidence that it communicated  with him in his own language either  speaking  or in writing  
despite knowing of his communication difficulties.
HSBC says that Mr P wouldve been  interested in the ABA because it had benefit of the 
travel insurance and fee free cash  withdrawal abroad and HSBC  has provided evidence  that 
Mr P travelled occasionally in the first few years he had the account. But the account fee 
was £12.95 a month,  so in my view the travel insurance wouldnt have been valuable  
enough on its own to lead Mr P to buy the account.  And there is no evidence that he 
benefitted otherwise  from the account until he saved some money when he took out loans 
and had an overdraft  several years  later.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mr P didnt choose the account because he wanted it 
and in my view it follows that I dont think he was given  a clear choice whether to take out 
the ABA as opposed to a fee free account.
I note that HSBC has said he took out a credit  card in 2006  and so must have had a credit  
history. And also that Mrs P joined the account  later. But neither  of these changes my view 
about what happened in the sale of the ABA itself.
So I think Mr P lost out when HSBC  sold him an ABA in 2006.
putting things right
I require HSBC to: 
Pay Mr P the amount  he paid each month for the ABA.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr P has saved  money because of a better rate on his overdraft or loan by having  the 
packaged account and HSBC can show exactly how much  Mr P saved, it may deduct 
these savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated the two 
points above.  HSBC must  explain  clearly and simply to Mr P how it has worked out any 
deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require HSBC UK Bank  Plc to 
put things right as Ive described above.
Ref: DRN15606663Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1560666