K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background
Mr Ts car was insured with CIS. He took out his policy  through  a broker. The broker  is a 
separate business to CIS.
On 30 July 2018, Mr T had an accident  which wasnt his fault. A van reversed into his car 
causing damage. As instructed by his policy documents,  Mr T called the broker to report the 
accident. During that call it was decided CIS would  take care of the repairs to Mr Ts car. The 
broker then referred Mr T to what is known as a credit hire company to arrange a like for 
like hire car as he needed to keep mobile.  The credit  hire company is a separate business  to 
the insurer and the broker. 
Mr T complained about the hire car not being  suitable for his needs  and how the credit hire 
company dealt with him. He also complained about  CIS because  their approved repairer 
(AR) hadnt  carried out the repairs to his car to the required standard.  Mr T was also 
unhappy with CIS service  generally. CIS later cancelled Mr Ts policy which  he felt was 
unfair. Mr T complained. 
CIS accepted certain things could have  been  dealt with better  by the credit hire company 
and offered Mr T £75 compensation. But on the whole they said they dealt with Mr T fairly. 
Mr T brought  his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators  looked  into it. She said 
that CIS werent responsible for the actions of the credit hire company and that our service 
couldnt look into Mr Ts concerns about the credit  hire company  as part of this complaint. 
She felt CIS were wrong to cancel Mr Ts policy. She therefore recommended  that CIS pay 
Mr T £100 compensation. As Mr T didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 17 June 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain  why.
I think it might be helpful if I explain how Mr Ts policy was set up. Mr T bought his 
policy through a broker. The broker also administered the policy.  The policy  
documentation was branded in the brokers name and the contact number to make  a 
claim was the number of the broker. But the actual policy  was underwritten by CIS, 
who are a separate business to the broker. This set up is quite  usual within the car 
insurance industry and its understandable  that Mr T, like most other policyholders,  
would have believed  the broker was the insurer. But the broker  and CIS have 
different roles, responsibilities and obligations.
In the set up Ive described, some actions of the broker were  done on behalf of CIS. 
In other  words, the broker  was acting as CIS agent.  So, CIS would be responsible  
Ref: DRN15317182for those  actions. But some of the brokers actions were done on their own accord for 
which CIS werent responsible for.
Under the policy, while his car was being  repaired  Mr T was only entitled to a small 
hatchback type courtesy car with a one litre engine. When he spoke  with the broker it 
became apparent that Mr T wasnt at fault for the accident. One of the options  at that 
stage was to refer Mr T to CIS to claim for the damage to his car on his own policy  
and, provided the repairs  were  done by one of CIS approved  repairers (AR), be 
given a small courtesy car by CIS. And in fact the broker did refer Mr T to CIS for CIS 
to repair  the car. So, CIS paid their AR to repair the car and later claimed those costs 
back from the insurer of the van that caused  the accident. But instead of arranging 
for CIS to provide  Mr T with a small courtesy  car, the broker  referred Mr T to a credit 
hire company to supply  a hire car. As Ive mentioned above, the credit hire company 
is a separate business to the broker and CIS. The credit hire company provided Mr T 
with a hire car that was similar to his own car. The role of the credit hire company 
was then to claim the cost of that hire car from the insurer of the van that was at fault 
for the accident.  So, effectively, the broker split Mr Ts claim into two: CIS to repair 
the car and the credit  hire company to provide a hire car.
But I should make  it clear that the action of the broker referring Mr T to the credit hire 
company was done on the brokers own accord  and had nothing  to do with CIS. Its 
for that reason CIS are not responsible  for the actions and the service  provided by 
the credit  hire company. And as our adjudicator explained, a separate  complaint 
against the credit hire company could be made,  which  I understand Mr T has done.
But I think CIS response to Mr Ts complaint  confused matters. When  he complained 
Mr T raised  a number of issues  including  aspects relating to the credit hire 
companys service. CIS took it upon  themselves to respond to the complaint in 
general terms giving Mr T the impression  that they were responsible for the actions  of 
the credit  hire company. CIS even offered some compensation for some of the issues 
relating to the credit hire companys service. I asked CIS about  that and they said 
they were trying to be helpful. But like Ive said, the credit hire company are a 
separate business to CIS and CIS were  not responsible for their actions.  And I think  
CIS complaint response, while trying  to be helpful,  has added  to the confusion.
As Ive mentioned  earlier, the actions of the credit  hire company are being  looked into 
under a separate complaint reference  so I wont be commenting on those aspects 
within this decision.
quality of repairs
As Ive mentioned  above, CIS AR repaired the accident related damage to Mr Ts 
car. As the AR was acting as CIS agent  CIS are responsible  for the ARs  actions.  
Mr T said the quality of repairs were sub-standard  and wanted  them  put right by a 
main dealer  garage. 
When a policyholder is unhappy  with the quality of repairs there is generally a set 
procedure to follow. And that was offered to Mr T by CIS. CIS told Mr T that they 
would arrange  for an independent engineer to assess the car to report on whether or 
not the repairs were  substandard.  CIS said that if the independent engineer decided 
that was the case  the engineer would make recommendations on how to put right the 
poor repairs.
Ref: DRN15317183Mr T said that he wanted any remedial work to be done by the main  dealer garage 
and CIS agreed  to that. And as Mr T is from profession where he works long hours 
during the week,  CIS agreed  to make arrangements for things to happen on a 
Saturday on a date and at a time to suit Mr T. After the AR had repaired and returned 
his car to Mr T, the hire car provided to Mr T by the credit hire company had been  
taken away from him. Thats not unusual given  Mr T was returned his repaired car 
would have meant he no longer had use for the hire car. But given the car was to 
now go to Mr Ts chosen main dealer garage  to be assessed by an independent  
engineer, and given if it were decided remedial work would be needed,  there was the 
potential that Mr T would be without a car. But he needed to remain mobile.
So, CIS said that as a gesture of goodwill they would provide Mr T with a like for like 
courtesy car even though he wasnt entitled  to one under the policy. Thats because 
his car wasnt being repaired  by one of CIS ARs,  it was to be assessed at the main 
dealer garage. And under the policy Mr T was only entitled to a small hatch back car. 
But when CIS told Mr T the make  and model of the car they were  giving  him he 
rejected it. Thats  because it was the same type of car that was given to him by the 
credit hire company and which  he said he had a number problems with, mainly it had 
a small boot and faulty Bluetooth connectivity.  Mr T insisted on another make of car 
that was similar to his own. CIS refused that saying they didnt have to provide him 
any replacement car at that stage and that they were going over and above  what  was 
expected of them. Given the impasse  and Mr Ts refusal to accept the car the 
appointment at the main dealer garage  didnt go ahead  so Mr Ts car wasnt  
assessed by an independent engineer.
CIS told Mr T that if he didnt want  the courtesy car they were offering  him they 
wouldnt get a replacement but there was no reason why the assessment of Mr Ts 
car couldnt still go ahead. But Mr T refused that. So, as it currently  stands, Mr Ts car 
hasnt been assessed to establish if the repairs were  substandard. But that was 
Mr T's choice. And I dont think that Mr Ts car hasn't been independently assessed 
because of anything  CIS have done  wrong. I think CIS actions, including offering a 
similar courtesy car while the assessment was being  done, were reasonable. Im 
therefore not upholding this aspect  of the complaint.
cancellation of policy
Soon after the impasse over the assessment of Mr Ts car, in October  2018  CIS 
cancelled Mr Ts policy.  They gave him a weeks notice and cancelled the policy  on 
the basis that the relationship had broken  down  between  them.  CIS made a pro-rata 
refund to Mr T of £247.63 for the four or so months  remaining on his policy.
Mr T complained saying that was unfair. He was also unhappy that the cancellation 
notice was only sent to his London address by post whereas he was living and 
working in another city. He said CIS should have phoned, emailed  or texted  him as 
he might  not have seen  the cancellation notice which  may have caused  him to drive  
while uninsured. But CIS said they correctly sent the cancellation notice to his policy 
address. The policy  terms and conditions say CIS would send any cancellation notice 
to Mr Ts last known address.  And that was his policy  address,  so I dont think  CIS 
did anything wrong  in sending it there.
Ref: DRN15317184Under the terms and conditions  CIS were entitled  to cancel the policy  in certain 
circumstances. The list of circumstances  isnt exhaustive but they include if there are 
serious grounds. And while  its clear the relationship between CIS and Mr T was 
strained, and there was an impasse  between  them over the assessment, Mr T still 
had his car which he was using.  So, Im not convinced that CIS were  reasonable in 
cancelling the policy in the way they did as I dont  think there were any valid reasons 
for them to do so under the policy. I therefore  intend to uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
summary and conclusion
For the reasons  Ive explained above, the main complaint  regarding  the hire car and 
the actions of the credit hire company were not the responsibility of CIS. Im therefore 
not intending to uphold  that aspect of the complaint. And, as I understand it, Mr T has 
made a separate complaint against the credit hire company.
In relation to the other issues, I think  CIS response  to Mr Ts claim that the repairs 
were substandard was reasonable.  They offered  to have  the car assessed  by an 
independent engineer and to have any necessary remedial work done at Mr Ts 
chosen main dealer  garage. But that didnt go ahead  because  of Mr Ts refusal as he 
didnt want the courtesy  car offered.
But I feel that the confusion caused by CIS by them responding to Mr Ts concerns  
about the credit hire company  has caused  Mr T distress and inconvenience. Had CIS 
told Mr T he should complain to the credit hire company  directly  a lot of time could 
have been saved for Mr T. Instead, having raised those concerns with CIS he has 
had to go through that process  again in his separate complaint against the credit  hire 
company. I also think CIS wrongful cancellation of the policy also caused  Mr T 
distress and inconvenience as he had only a short  space  of time to find alternative 
cover. I intend to uphold these two aspects  of the complaint and to address the 
impact on Mr T I intend to require  CIS to pay him £300 compensation.
I also intend to require CIS to correct any external databases to remove any 
reference to CIS having cancelled the policy  if indeed CIS made any such records. 
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. CIS didnt comment. Mr T said he felt I 
hadnt addressed  all his points and that I hadnt considered all the information hes provided.  
He also said the actions of the credit hire company and the broker should be looked into.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
I would like to assure  Mr T that I have carefully considered  all the information  both he and 
CIS have  provided.  Mr T is concerned  that I havent  addressed each and every point he has 
made. A number of the points  he has made relate to the actions of the credit  hire company. 
And, as Ive explained  in my provisional  decision, this complaint only relates to the actions of 
CIS. My provisional decision  has addressed the points I feel are necessary to reach a 
decision on the relevant issues.
Ref: DRN15317185Mr T has again  raised concerns about  the actions of the credit hire company and the broker.  
The credit hire company  and the broker are separate businesses  to CIS. Mr Ts concerns 
about the credit hire company  have been looked into under a separate  case  reference. And 
if Mr T has concerns about  the actions of the broker, he will have to raise them with them 
separately.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require CIS General Insurance 
Limited to:
Correct any external databases to remove any reference to CIS having cancelled  the 
policy if indeed CIS made  any such records.
Pay Mr T £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr T has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept
or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If CIS consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr T how much they have taken off. They should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN1531718