complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Lloyds) mis-sold  them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1996  alongside a mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs D say they were told that if they didnt take out the PPI their chances  of being 
accepted for the mortgage wouldve been significantly reduced. And that, as this was their 
first mortgage, they relied on the advice  they were  given.  However  Ive not seen any notes 
from the meeting  that took place  or any other evidence to suggest  that Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage application wouldve had a greater chance  of success  if they took out the PPI. And 
these events took place more than 20 years ago, which is something I have to keep in mind 
when deciding what I think  is more  likely  to have happened. So its difficult to rely on what 
Mr and Mrs D have said alone, to conclude that Lloyds have done something  wrong.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to them, so I think its likely it told Mr and Mrs D they should 
take out the PPI based on their personal circumstances and their need for the policy, but 
thats different  to saying that they had to take PPI in order to get the mortgage. Ive also 
looked at the mortgage  application Mr and Mrs D signed where there  is a section for PPI. 
Unfortunately the only copy  available is not very clear. Mr and Mrs D havent complained 
that they didnt  consent to the policy. And from what I can see, I think  Mr and Mrs D ticked  
yes to PPI, ticked to show Mr D was eligible for the cover and chose to take the cover  out in 
his name  only. It looks like there  was also the option to tick no to the policy, so I think  they 
wouldve known it was optional at the time. So after considering all the evidence available, I 
think its more likely  than not that Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand if they cant  
remember this now.  
As I said above Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check  that the 
policy was right for Mr D (as the insured party). And based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this because  from what  Ive seen I dont 
think he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs D say the PPI wasnt suitable  for them because  Mr D was entitled to more  than 
12 months worth of sick pay from his employer  at the time. Mr D has provided evidence  to 
show he was entitled to two years  worth of sick pay in January 2001.  But Ive not seen any 
evidence of Mr Ds sick pay from 1996  when the PPI was sold.  And I cant fairly and 
reasonably conclude that Mr D wouldve had the same sick pay 5 years  earlier. However, he 
was working for the same employer in 1996 as he was in 2001  so I think its likely Mr D 
wouldve received  some sick pay and I accept  its possible that this wouldve been fairly 
generous. But, even with a generous level of sick pay I still think the PPI was suitable for 
him. I say this because  the PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months  in addition to his sick 
pay - and so this couldve been  used  to cover other financial commitments.  And Mr and 
Ref: DRN10050942Mrs D were borrowing money  secured  against their home, which is likely to have been their 
biggest financial commitment, so having  the policy  in place wouldve given them some 
additional financial security.   
Mr and Mrs D also say they had savings that they couldve used to make  their repayments. 
They told us they had 12 months  worth  of savings, but Ive seen that they told Lloyds they 
had £4,000 of savings   which  I think would have covered them for much less than 12 
months if Mr D was not working. And I think even  if they did have more  savings at the time, 
its likely  they would  have  put these towards the house purchase to reduce their borrowing. 
Unless they had these savings earmarked for another purpose, in which case  having the 
policy wouldve protected their savings for its intended purpose.  So overall, I dont think 
Mr Ds sick pay or their joint savings meant  that the PPI wasnt suitable for them  and I still 
think they had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But the evidence suggests  they chose to take it out in Mr Ds name only - so 
it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds Bank plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs D. But Lloyds will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds Bank  plc has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Lloyds Bank plc should also pay back  to Mr and 
Mrs D any extra interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds Bank  plc should pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month  because  
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds Bank  
plc should also pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN10050943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1005094