K820x#14complaint
Miss L has complained  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC is holding her liable  for a loan and a 
bank transfer, which  she said she didnt make.
background
Miss L was working abroad from April 2017 to November 2017.
On 4 November  2017, she called Barclays to check the balance  on her current account. The 
balance was lower  than she expected, given that shed received her salary for September  
and October 2017  and hadnt spent any money. Barclays  then told her there had been 
multiple debit card and online banking transactions  on her bank  accounts.
Miss L found  out that, from 30 September 2017 to 2 November 2017, there had been 
multiple ATM cash withdrawals, card payments  in stores, a transfer  from her savings 
account to her current account  and a bill payment to an account with another bank. There 
were also two successful loan applications  one to Barclays for £15,000 and an attempt to 
increase the limit on her Barclaycard.
And there was a balance transfer  from her Barclaycard account into her current  account.
The loans and the transfer from her savings account  funded the payments and cash 
withdrawals.
Miss L told Barclays that she didnt make  the transactions or the loan application  and she 
didnt request an increase to her credit  card limit. 
She told Barclays that she never used online or mobile banking from abroad.  She said she 
always used telephone banking.
She said she didnt  know  how her PIN and online details had been comprised. However, she 
said she had received a call from someone who claimed they were a  Barclays employee. 
They asked for her banking details. She said she gave the caller her PIN, mothers maiden 
name and told them  about recent activities on her account. She also told Barclays  that, a few 
days later,  an ATM  retained  her card and dispensed someone elses card in its place.
She asked  Barclays to refund the transfer of £4,700 from her savings account to her current 
account. And she asked  it to stop pursuing  her for the loan for £15,000 and to return the 
balance transfer.
Barclays decided not to refund the £4,700 or cancel the loan. It said the transfer and loan 
application were  done through her online banking. This means that the person already knew 
her log in details  and password. It said a pinsentry device was used to transfer  the £4,700 to 
her current  account. Barclays said it wouldve sent a text message to her mobile phone  
when this was done.
Ref: DRN15190392It also explained that there was no record of her card being retained  by an ATM  and that an 
ATM would never dispense a card,  which  had been  retained by the machine, but belonged 
to someone else. 
Barclays concluded that either  Miss L had authorised  the transfer and made  the loan 
application or shed been grossly negligent  with her banking details, providing  the 
opportunity for someone else to use her banking details.
However, it did refund the balance transfer from her Barclaycard account because the caller, 
who requested an increase in the credit  limit, wasnt Miss L.
Miss L wasnt  happy with this outcome  so she brought her complaint  to this service.
An investigator looked into her case but decided not to uphold it. In summary,  she felt unable  
to conclude that the transactions  were fraudulent and was persuaded they were most likely 
made and authorised by Miss L.
Miss L disagreed with the investigators view. Shes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full, the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Miss L and Barclays  have read the investigators  
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure both that Ive read the file, including their comments  and evidence.
The disputed transactions fall into three categories:
debit card payments   Miss L is not asking for these  to be refunded. In any event, 
they were funded  by the loan and bank transfer.
Online and mobile banking transactions.
Loan application.
The relevant  regulations   the Payment  Services  Regulations  2009 (PSRs 2009) apply to 
the debit card payments and bank transfers  but not to the loan.
Generally, Barclays can hold Miss L liable for the disputed cash  withdrawals, debit card 
purchases and bank transfers   if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she 
made or authorised them  herself.  I appreciate  Miss L is not asking for a refund of all these 
transactions. However, its important to consider who might have made them  as that helps  to 
understand who authorised the bank  transfers  and applied for the loan.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Miss Ls genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed cash withdrawals and payments. 
Ref: DRN15190393Im also satisfied that the two transfers of £4,700  and £490 were made via her online 
banking. As such,  the person needed her log in details and password. And Barclays  said a 
pinsentry card reader  and debit card were used for the £4,700  transfer and a mobile 
pinsentry was used  for the £490  bill payment.  However, I also need to think  about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss L consented to the 
transactions. 
Im not persuaded these transactions were  done  by an unknown  third party or opportunistic  
fraudster. This is because Miss Ls explanation  for how the fraud happened simply isnt 
convincing.
Ive listened to her call to Barclays.  She said she received the scam call before the ATM 
retained her debit card. If this was all part of the same fraud, then there is no credible  
explanation for how the caller got hold of her debit  card, if it had been retained in a machine 
after shed tried using  it.
Miss L couldnt give us a date for when  the ATM  retained her card but if this incident 
happened a day or two before she called  the bank on 4 November, then it means she had 
possession of the card when the disputed transactions were  made.  She also said that the 
ATM dispensed a card belonging to someone else, which she took to the police. Barclays  
said this is unheard of and simply not plausible. 
Miss L also told the bank  she didnt know  where  her cards were and they were lost or 
stolen. This is inconsistent with her also saying her debit card was retained by an ATM.
As for the scam call, theres no explanation  for how the caller  knew  her mobile number or 
that she had a Barclays account  (unless they already had her debit card,  which seems 
unlikely). Miss L only mentioned giving details of her Barclays account because  the caller  
said they were from Barclays. Yet, her accounts with other  businesses  were also 
compromised.
So, Im satisfied this wasnt a fraud carried out by an unknown  third party.
I think its more likely than not that someone  Miss L knew  carried out the disputed  
transactions because:
The bank  statements show that when Miss L wanted to make  a bank transfer she 
used telephone banking with voice recognition. Theres  no record of her using online 
or mobile  banking  before October 2017,  when  the disputed transactions  began.
Barclays said that the online transactions were made from IP addresses which Miss 
L had used before.  However, it hasnt provided any evidence  linking those addresses 
to a genuine transaction. It has linked one IP address  to a transfer for £250 between  
her accounts on 2 November 2017  but Miss L has disputed that transaction. Besides, 
it doesnt follow the pattern of genuine  transfers,  i.e. by telephone using a short  form 
of her name. 
The mobile banking  app was activated on 13 October 2017, after the disputed  
transactions began. On the same date, the mobile phone number was changed.  
Barclays said this was done by Miss L but it hasnt said how it knows this. I assume 
the person needed  her mobile  banking passcode to do this.
Ref: DRN15190394Barclays confirmed that the call, which was made to increase the credit card limit, 
was not made by Miss L.
Ive also taken into account that her debit card for an account  with another bank  was used in 
the country where  she was working, in the US and it returned to her country of work. Miss 
Ls passport confirms  she was not in the US at the time or at all.
The question I have  to decide is whether Miss L gave  consent for someone to use her card 
and online account.  Im afraid Ive reached  the conclusion that she must have done. This is 
because the person knew the log in details for her online and mobile  banking,  including  her 
passwords, the PIN to the debit card and they had access to the debit card and a pinsentry 
device. I understand  Miss L lived in shared accommodation and said she sometimes  left her 
card in a bag in the apartment  but she said the PIN to her debit card was stored on her 
mobile phone,  which  is password protected. The investigator asked her about  her mobile 
phone but she didnt mention losing her phone or whether it was out of her possession  at 
any time. And she didnt  say whether shed shared the phones password with anyone else. 
So, it follows  that another person could  only know  the debit card PIN if Miss L had told them.
Barclays also said it wouldve sent a text message to her mobile phone when the £4,700  
transfer was done, which  was on 4 October 2017. The number it had on file for her at the 
time wouldve been the original number, which is her current  number. So if she had her 
mobile phone then she wouldve seen that message.
In summary,  I believe someone Miss L knew had access to her account. And I think  its more 
likely than not that she allowed that person to use her card and online banking.  She might  
not have known the full extent of how they used her banking details but Im afraid shes  still 
treated as having  authorised the transactions under the PSRs  2009 and Barclays is entitled  
to hold her liable for them. 
The relevant  regulations  dont apply to the loan application. So, I dont have to consider  
questions of authorisation or gross negligence.  I do question how Barclays approved a 
loan for £15,000  based on Miss Ls wages  as a seasonal holiday rep and I doubt it will 
recover it. However, the evidence tends to show that she must  have  known what  was going 
on. In these circumstances, I dont  consider  it would  be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays  
to cancel the loan agreement because  of fraud,  although it might wish to reconsider whether  
the loan was affordable
I understand Miss L says she hasnt had the opportunity to give her evidence.  Im sorry if she 
feels that way. However, I believe this service has given Miss L ample  opportunity to provide 
more evidence but she hasnt added to what shes already told us, other  than to say shes 
been a good customer, who saves her money,  which Im sure is true. However, this doesnt 
answer the questions  about how someone else knew all her banking  details.
I appreciate this has been a distressing and anxious  experience for Miss L and so I am very 
sorry to send disappointing news, especially after such a long wait but I hope the reasons for 
my decision  are clear.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN15190395Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1519039