K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that they were mis-sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Mr and Mrs O took out a mortgage with BoS in 1994. At the same time they bought a PPI 
policy which  wouldve covered their repayments for up to 12 months at a time if Mr O were 
unemployed, and up to 24 months at a time if he were too sick to work.
Mr and Mrs O say they were pressured to buy the PPI because they were led to believe they 
wouldnt get the mortgage without  it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs O 
disagree, so the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and 
Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs O say they were pressured to take out the PPI by being told they wouldnt get 
the mortgage without it. I cant  know what was said in that meeting nearly a quarter  of a 
century ago, but Ive looked at the paperwork Mr and Mrs O completed.  The mortgage 
application form makes  it clear the PPI is optional and Mr and Mrs O have ticked to say they 
wanted it. They also completed a separate proposal  form for the insurance.  On this basis, 
and with no additional evidence that Mr and Mrs O were told otherwise, I cant safely  say 
that Mr and Mrs O were  misled into taking the PPI. I think  its most likely they bought  the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs O so it had to check  that the PPI was right for Mr 
O  whom the policy covered. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Os circumstances I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mr O only had statutory sick pay available 
to him which  would have paid only a fraction  of his salary for a short period of time. The PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months at a time for sickness  or accident, and up to 12 
months at a time for redundancy. As Mr O was the only wage earner and they didnt  have 
any other means of meeting their repayments, I think  it was important that Mr and Mrs O had 
a way of maintaining their mortgage  payments if he couldnt work. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs O about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  I havent  seen  
any evidence to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs O. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN16350582This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O. But 
BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O because  when the policy 
was sold, BoS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs O about that. Because BoS didnt 
tell them,  that was unfair.
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1635058