Ref: DRN1745229   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Complaint  
 
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the service provided by Chase d e Vere Independent 
Financial Advisers limited (CDV) in respect of their investment portfolio.  
 
Background  
 
Mr and Mrs Rs investments were originally managed by a company Ill refer to as M. 
However, in October 2017, M was acquired by CDV.  
 
In November  2018 Mr and Mrs R complained to CDV as they were unhappy with the service 
provided since their old adviser left the firm in 2016. They said the last portfolio rebalance 
was in January 2017 and so they didnt think CDV had fulfilled the list of services it  agreed to 
provide. They also said CDV had failed to undertake regular client reviews  the most recent 
review in August 2018 was late and had been requested by them. They said the fact find 
completed contained inaccuracies and theyd yet to receive a repo rt. They also werent 
happy with the time taken to disclose the fees payable for a new service suggested to them. 
Mr and Mrs R terminated their relationship with CDV. They asked for a refund of the fees 
paid since February 2016 plus compensation for the st ress and inconvenience caused.  
 
CDV didnt agree it had provided a poor service. It thought that regular client and portfolio 
reviews had been carried out since 2016. It said the adviser couldnt provide a report 
following the review in August 2018 or a full description of the charges ap plicable to the new 
investment platform until Mr and Mrs R had signed a new CDV client services agreement. As 
they didnt want to sign this a generic description of the fees had been provided.  
 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy and referred their complaint to our service. They 
maintained the service provided by CDV had been poor since their old adviser left in 2016.  
 
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He felt that CDV had been in 
regular contact with Mr and Mrs R to review their need s and rebalance their portfolio. He 
thought it as reasonable for CDV to require Mr and Mrs R to sign a new client services 
agreement before providing its recommendations and fee structure.  
 
 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. They maintained CDV hadnt provided th e services they were 
contracted to provide  it hadnt ever put an investment plan in place so no goals could be 
set or reviewed. They also questioned whether the review in August 2018 wouldve taken 
place if there hadnt been an issue with their home insu rance policy, which had prompted 
CDVs contact. They were also still unhappy that the fact find conducted in 2018 contained 
mistakes.  
 
The investigator didnt change his opinion on the matter so the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.  
 
 
 
K820x#14  
Ref: DRN1745229  
2  
  
 
 
 
 
 
My findings  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons as the investigator.  
 
Ive reviewed the client service a greement Mr and Mrs R signed in February 2014, when the 
service was still being provided by M. This sets out the basis on which the service would be 
provided to them. With regard to reviews, it says that each year it would conduct a 
comprehensive review of  the clients financial arrangements to ensure their plan remains on 
track and is aligned with their goals, aspirations and attitude to risk. It also says that as part 
of the review, it would assess the performance of the clients portfolio and with their 
authority, make any changes it considers necessary and rebalance their asset allocation to 
remain in line with the clients risk tolerance profile.  
 
Mr and Mrs R dont think they received this level of service since their adviser left the 
company in 2016. But having reviewed CDVs records, I can see the following took place:  
 
 a meeting with the new adviser in February 2016 during which the portfolio wa s 
reviewed  the new adviser produced a portfolio rebalance report dated 18 April 2016 
which was sent to Mr and Mrs R; the recommendations were accepted by them  on 
5 May 2016;  
 the new adviser invited Mr and Mrs R to a review by email of 11 November 2016, 
which was declined by  them;  
 a portfolio rebalance was suggested in December 2016, which was accepted by Mr 
and Mrs R on 3 January  2017;  
 a review in May 2017 at Mr and Mrs Rs home where their financial circumstances 
were discussed but no action was taken by  them;  
 a review in November 2017 where the adviser didnt recommend any changes to the 
portfolio  the acquisition of M by CDV was explained at this  time;  
 a meeting in August 2018 in which Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances were discussed  
a new investment plat form was recommended and they were asked to sign new CDV 
client services  agreements.  
 
So, Im satisfied that CDV provided the services set out in its agreement. CDV was obliged 
to carry out an annual review, but from the evidence Ive seen, it carried out reviews twice a 
year. It also made recommendations to rebalance the portfolio, which were put to Mr and 
Mrs R to accept. Mr and Mrs R have said they had to request the reviews to take place, but 
I havent seen any evidence that supports this. The exception  is in relation to the review due 
to take place in 2018, which Ill address separately  below.  
 
 
Mr and Mrs R say that CDV never set out an investment plan for them, so the new adviser 
couldnt have reviewed their objectives at these meetings. But the report dated April 2016 
sets out that Mr and Mrs Rs attitude to risk was balanced  they wanted capi tal growth but 
also wanted to preserve their capital. The report explains that Mr and Mrs Rs overall 
investment objective was to ensure their investments were held in Ms balanced portfolio, 
which was overseen by Ms investment committee. Any rebalancing exercises were carried 
out with this objective in mind. So, I think CDV fulfilled their obligation to provide an 
investment plan.  Ref: DRN1745229  
3  
  
 
 
 
 
 
As I understand it, a review was due to take place in May 2018. However, it appears CDV 
didnt get in touch with Mr and Mrs R until July 2018, after it had been in touch about an 
issue with their home insurance. Mr and Mrs R have raised concerns about the way their 
home insurance renewal was handled, but I understand this is the responsibility of another 
business, so I havent considered it here.  
 
I appreciate that the 2018 review was a few months late; it didnt take place until  
21 August 2018 largely due to the advisers availability. It doesnt appear Mr and Mrs R 
needed the review to be carried out urgently or had any pressing issues to discuss at the 
time. So, while this may have caused them some concern, I cant see that it has impacted 
them financiall y or caused them anything other than slight inconvenience. Similarly, I cant 
see that any of the alleged mistakes made within the fact find completed during the meeting 
have had any other impact. So, I dont think CDV needs to pay any compensation for thi s. 
 
I accept that Mr and Mrs R have been disappointed with the interaction theyve had with their 
new adviser and feel that they were provided with a better service by their old adviser. But  
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that theyve been d isadvantaged by this 
change.  
 
Overall, I think CDV has provided Mr and Mrs R with the services it was contracted to 
provide and it hasnt treated them unfairly.  
 
My final decision  
 
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombuds man Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2020.  
 
 
Hannah Wise  
Ombudsman  