K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mr M took out in 2003. It 
was sold to him in store.  Its been  agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer,  should take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr M didnt agree. 
He says the PPI policy  wasnt  discussed and the person selling it to him didnt ask any 
questions before getting him sign for it. He says the card was transferred to another lender 
and nobodys looked at whether that affects  his complaint. Finally he says hes received 
refunds for other policies  sold in similar  circumstances  so he should get a refund on this 
one too.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr M says PPI wasnt discussed. FICL says it wouldve got his consent before adding cover  
to his account. Where  theres a dispute  about what happened, I have to base my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened - taking into account all the evidence  thats  
available.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time this policy  was taken out. 
But looking  at a copy of Mr Ms application  form, I can see theres a section headed
"Protecting your Account". Above the signature  box it says, Yes, I want my Account covered 
by Payment Protection Insurance (subject  to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly  premium  until further  notice.  Theres  a mark next to this  which  might  
have been entered by the member of staff to indicate where Mr M should sign.  Mr M has 
signed next to this to confirm his choice.  Hed had the opportunity  to review and query 
anything on the application he wasnt sure about before he signed it. So, overall, I think  its 
most likely FICL made Mr M aware  he had a choice about buying  the policy and he chose to 
take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But overall I dont think Mr M has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong 
because:
Ref: DRN13889862He was eligible for the policy.
It looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the cost of 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr M told us he wouldve received some  sick pay if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
an accident.  Under the terms  of the policy it wouldve  paid out until he returned to work if 
hed made a successful  claim.  The policy also covered him if hed become unemployed. I 
think, on balance,  the PPI couldve  been  a useful benefit for Mr M.
Mr M says hes had refunds for policies sold in similar circumstances. I dont know  exactly 
what they were, but this doesnt change my decision, which is based only on the information 
and evidence provided for this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1388986