K820x#14complaint
Mr N complained that Arbuthnot Latham & Co Limited withdrew its offer of a loan. He said 
this was at a late stage  in the property purchase he wanted to make, so he incurred costs as 
well as suffering distress and inconvenience. He wants £200,000 compensation. 
background 
On 6 August  2018, Arbuthnot Latham  offered  Mr N a term facility of £610,560, to buy a 
property. The offer letter said that Arbuthnot Latham wasnt obliged to make the advance 
until it had received everything  which was specified in a schedule of conditions.
In that schedule of conditions,  paragraph 7 set out one of the requirements as: 
Completion of the Banks standard documentation for opening an account  including  all 
necessary paperwork  and information  in connection  with you to satisfy the Banks know  your 
customer requirements.
Mr N signed the offer on 10 August.
On 25 September,  Mr N went to the bank to finalise  arrangements. In the discussions,  Mr N 
mentioned something  about his business  and background which  concerned Arbuthnot  
Latham. The bank did some research and on 26 September Arbuthnot  Latham told Mr N that 
it wouldnt be opening his account and his loan wouldnt be going ahead. 
Mr N complained. He said the offer had been  withdrawn at a late stage of the purchase, 
meaning possible forfeiture of his deposit, stamp duty and other costs, as well as causing  
him distress and inconvenience.  He wanted  compensation. 
Arbuthnot Lathams final response pointed out that the loan offer had said the loan would  be 
conditional on Mr N meeting certain  conditions. It referred to the new information  which  Mr N 
had disclosed during the meeting on 25 September. And it said that this information was 
different from what Mr N had previously told Arbuthnot Latham. The final response letter said 
it was regrettable that the refusal had happened at a very late stage  of Mr Ns property 
purchase - but it had only happened because of what Mr N had disclosed during that banks 
standard practice for finalising account  opening.  The bank offered Mr N £1,000  
compensation as a gesture of goodwill and to maintain relations. Mr N refused this. 
Mr N complained to this service. He said hed suffered financial losses,  anguish and 
sleepless nights because  hed had to look for a replacement loan. He said the banks 
decision was very unfair, unethical and unprofessional. He wanted compensation of 
£200,000.
Ref: DRN14369052The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. He said that the facility letter  which Mr N had 
signed had made it clear  the loan was subject to certain conditions  being satisfied. When the 
bank received new information, it had decided Mr Ns application  didnt meet its lending 
appetite. The adjudicator  recognised that Mr N would  have been disappointed. But he said 
Arbuthnot Latham was well within  its rights  to have specific conditions, and to take the 
lending decision it had done.
Mr N wasnt satisfied. He said he was unable  to accept what the adjudicator  had said, and 
wanted an ombudsman  to look at everything  again from a bigger perspective.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr N would have been  shocked and upset when Arbuthnot  Latham withdrew 
its offer. It would have  been inconvenient and stressful to have  to find alternative  funding at 
short notice.
But what  I have to consider is whether the bank did anything wrong when it took this 
decision. So Ive looked carefully at the lending  offer and the conditions it contained.
As Ive set out above, one of those essential  conditions related to standard  account opening 
documentation, including information about  Mr N. Mr N had signed  this offer, and by doing 
so he accepted the conditions set out in it. I find that the offer made  it quite clear  that the 
money would  only be advanced if Mr N met the banks requirements. 
When Mr N met Arbuthnot Latham on 25 September, he revealed information which made 
the bank re-assess  Mr Ns loan application.  I find that Arbuthnot  Latham was entitled to re-
assess its position because of this new information,  because it was a significant change  to 
what the bank  had previously understood about Mr N. 
And banking  regulations,  and the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, require banks to 
have policies and procedures in place, so they can identify, assess and monitor risk. So I 
find that Arbuthnot  Latham was entitled  to take this decision. However frustrating for Mr N, it 
didnt make any difference that it was a late stage in his property purchase.  The bank 
communicated its decision promptly, and I dont  find that it did anything  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1436905