K820x#14complaint
Miss B1 and Miss B2 complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss B1 and Miss B2 took out a mortgage  with Nationwide  in 1997. At the same time they 
bought a PPI policy  which wouldve helped cover  their mortgage repayments for up to 24 
months at a time if either of them couldnt  work. The cover  was split 50/50  between them.
Miss B1 and Miss B2 say that the policy was added without their knowledge or consent.
The adjudicator didnt think Miss B1 and Miss B2s complaint should be upheld. Miss B1 and 
Miss B2 disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Miss B1 and Miss B2 say the policy  was added without their consent  and they dont 
remember agreeing  to buy it. Nationwide has provided a copy  of their mortgage application 
form. Theres a section  for PPI and Miss B1 and Miss B2 have ticked to say they wanted it. 
They couldve ticked to say they didnt want it. They also completed a separate  declaration 
about the PPI, making choices about how the cover was split between them and how much 
benefit they required. Both Miss B1 and Miss B2 signed the completed form.
So, I think Miss B1 and Miss B2 agreed to buy the PPI knowing they had a choice about it, 
although its understandable  they dont remember this more  than 20 years later.
Nationwide didnt give Miss B1 and Miss B2 a personal recommendation to buy the policy, 
so it didnt need to check it was right for them. But it did need to make  sure they both had all 
the information they needed about the PPI to make an informed decision themselves.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give them all the information they needed about all the detail 
of the policy, although  I think Miss B1 and Miss B2 wouldve understood the principle of what 
they were buying   that it would help cover their mortgage repayments if either of them 
couldnt work. But this doesnt mean  I should  automatically uphold their complaint. I have to 
this about what  they wouldve done if they had  been given all the right information. I dont 
think it wouldve made a difference to their decision to buy it. I say this because:
Miss B1 and Miss B2 were both eligible for the policy  and neither of them  were  
affected by any terms which mightve  made it more difficult  to make  a successful 
Ref: DRN10220562claim, such as those related to existing medical conditions or certain  types of 
employment;
Neither Miss B1 not Miss B2 were entitled to any contractual sick pay. So I think  
theyd have found the cover valuable as it wouldve paid out for up to two years at a 
time if either  of them were too ill to work;
Miss B1 and Miss B2 didnt have any savings or other means  to pay their mortgage if 
either of them  were made  redundant.  Again, the policy wouldve paid out for up to 
two years in these circumstances;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at 
around the same time. The cost of the policy was explained  in the mortgage  offer 
letter sent to Miss B1 and Miss B2 a couple of months before the policy  started. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest the cost was unaffordable for them.
So I dont  think Miss B1 and Miss B2 lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide did wrong, 
which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B1 and 
Miss B2.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the PPI to Miss B1 and Miss B2 because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss B1 and Miss B2 about that. Because 
Nationwide didnt  tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss B1 and Miss B2 have said, but these points dont change 
my decision.  Miss B1 and Miss B2 may be somewhat  consoled  to understand that they paid 
less than £50 in PPI premiums in total.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss B1 and Miss B2.
But Nationwide does  have  to pay back to Miss B1 and Miss B2 any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B1 and Miss 
B2 to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10220563
Ref: DRN1022056