K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that a claim they made  on their insurance policy  with 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (LBGI) was declined. 
background
Mr and Mrs C had a problem with their boiler  and called  another business (not LBGI) to fix it. 
The engineer who attended said there may be a leak somewhere in the system  as the 
pressure in the boiler kept dropping. While trying to identify where the leak was, he damaged  
floors in several areas.  The leak was traced  to a radiator valve  in the living  room, and the 
engineer provided  an email confirming hed replaced  it.
It was suggested  Mr and Mrs C should  claim on their buildings  insurance policy with LBGI  to 
repair damage caused to the floor while tracing  the leak. They  did so, highlighting the trace 
and access element of their cover. LBGI  declined  the claim.  They  said there  had been  no 
damage to the property  caused by the leak, so the trace and access  part of the policy  didnt 
apply.  
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with LBGIs response  and referred the matter to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said Mr and Mrs C were covered for trace  and access  under 
their buildings policy. But he agreed  with LBGI that element of the cover  only takes effect 
when the property is damaged due to a leak.  Mr and Mrs C told LBGI  that the leak hadnt  
caused any damage to the property, and the damage that had been  caused wasnt as a 
result of the leak. So our investigator said LBGI hadnt been  wrong  to decline the claim.  He 
said Mr and Mrs C may be able to complain to the engineers employer if they wanted to. 
LBGI accepted the investigators assessment but Mr and Mrs C didnt. They said there was 
damage caused to the floor below the radiator. As there was no agreement, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy also says that it covers  damage caused by a leak, but not the cost of 
repairing the leak itself.  It also contains  a trace and access clause which  says:
if your buildings are damaged due to:
-Escape of water fromany  fixed water  installation
We will pay the reasonable cost of removing and replacing any other part of your 
buildings necessary to find the leak and making good
There is no dispute that there was a leak from a radiator valve.  But for the trace and access 
clause to come into effect damage must have been  caused to the building  by the leak.  In this 
instance, weve asked  Mr and Mrs C for any evidence they have of damage caused by the 
leaky radiator valve, but theyve been unable  to provide any.
Ive seen damage caused by the engineer attempting to find the leak,  but that isnt covered 
by the policy.  Ive not seen evidence of any damage caused by the leak itself. So, while  I 
realise Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed,  I cant reasonably say that LBGI  are liable  to 
Ref: DRN18046312make good  damage  caused by the engineer  looking for the leak as it isnt covered by the 
policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1804631