K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt tell him that it had reopened a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr A said UKI didnt tell him that it had reopened a claim from 2017 in 2018. He was worried 
that as hed unknowingly  misinformed his current insurers about this then any claims 
wouldnt have been covered. UKI said that as Mr A had acted in good faith he wouldnt have  
been uninsured.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought UKI had 
written to Mr A to tell him that the claim had been reopened, but he didnt receive its letter.  
She didnt  think it needed  to do anything  further. 
Mr A replied  asking for proof that the letter had been  sent.  He said hed received all of UKIs 
other letters. He thought  it could have used other means to let him know  the claim had been  
reopened. He thought hed still be affected  with his current insurer  as UKI would say it had 
sent the letter. Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come 
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said the open claim came to light when a policy  with another  insurer was due for 
renewal. Hed previously had an email  from UKI saying that the claim was closed. But he 
said he didnt receive UKIs letter four months  later saying the claim was reopened. I have no 
reason to disbelieve Mr A about this. When he contacted UKI he found that a personal injury  
claim had been  settled 50/50  split liability and then the claim was closed for good. 
UKI said it had sent the letter telling Mr A the claim had been reopened and this wasnt 
returned. So it had no reason to think Mr A hadnt received it. 
Ive looked at the file provided  by UKI. I can see that its claims handler noted that hed sent a 
letter to Mr A explaining that the claim was reopened. I can see that the letter  was sent to the 
correct address. I think this shows that the letter was produced and sent.  But I cant say why 
Mr A didnt receive it. Theres no note on UKIs file that the letter  was returned. 
I think UKI could have used other methods to contact Mr A. But I cant  say that it should  
have tried different  methods as thats  its commercial decision about its business processes. 
In any case, it had no reason to think Mr A hadnt received its letter. 
Mr A was worried  that if hed needed to make a claim, then hed not have been covered as 
hed provided  incorrect information to his insurers. UKI told Mr A hed have  been  covered as 
hed acted in good faith. However, its response to his complaint says that it cant dictate how 
other insurers would treat a non-disclosure. 
Ref: DRN15436442Fortunately, Mr A didnt need to make a new claim. The old claim was only open for two 
months. I cant  see that Mr A made  any non-disclosures apart from the one that brought the 
open claim to his attention  and this was then corrected. So I cant  see that not receiving 
the letter caused Mr A any losses, though it did cause him worry. I can only consider actual 
rather than potential losses  in any case. And so I cant  say that UKI needs to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1543644