K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC did not do enough to make  sure their online transfer 
was sent to the correct recipient. Because of this, they lost money to a scammer.  
background
Mr and Mrs Gs builder contacted them by e-mail with the final invoice for work  that was 
being completed and the account  details to send it to. They  sent him £2,094.26 via online 
banking on 26 January 2018. A few days later, they discovered that it wasnt their builder 
who contacted  them and that his e-mail  account had been hacked  by a scammer who gave 
them false  account  details.
Mr and Mrs G made Lloyds aware  theyd been  victims of a scam on 31 January 2018.  Lloyds 
contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day to request a return of the funds, but the 
beneficiary bank  explained that none of Mr and Mrs Gs funds were  remaining in the 
account. 
Mr and Mrs G raised a complaint with Lloyds and said that it should have cross checked the 
name they entered when  making the transfer and the name  on the beneficiary account. 
Lloyds responded and explained that the name Mr and Mrs G entered when making a 
transfer is for the consumers records only and they wouldnt use this when making the 
transfer. It said that as it correctly followed Mr and Mrs Gs instruction to make  the transfer, it 
hadnt made an error.
Our adjudicator invested the complaint and felt Lloyds was correct  to process the transfer  
and that it had acted quickly to try and get the funds returned once  it was aware of the scam. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into consideration when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Ref: DRN19992792Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr and Mrs G when they made the payment  of £2,094.26 or whether it should have done 
more than it did. Having  carefully considered everything available to me, I think it did act 
reasonably when it followed Mr and Mrs Gs instruction to make the transfer. And I think  it 
did enough to try and get a return of the funds. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G have been the victims of a cruel and 
convincing scam that, in my opinion, could have  been believed by anyone,  and Im sorry 
theyve had to go through  this experience. When considering this complaint, I must consider 
Lloyds actions alone. 
Both parties  agree that the payment was authorised by Mr and Mrs G. As I explained  above,  
this means that Lloyds  were obligated to process the payment. Having said that, there are 
some circumstances in which it should  reasonably have taken a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the payment. For example, if the payment was unusual or 
suspicious for Mr and Mrs G.
To determine this, Ive looked at the statements for Mr and Mrs Gs account. From this, I can 
see that the payment amount and type was not unusual for them when compared to their 
regular account  activity. I say this because they have frequently made  bill payments and 
transfers for significantly higher amounts than the transfer in question.  So, I dont think the 
scam payment itself was particularly remarkable. Because  of this, I dont think  that Lloyds 
system failed in any way when it didnt flag the payment  as unusual or suspicious.
Ref: DRN19992793Mr and Mrs G have made the point that Lloyds didnt cross-reference the name they entered 
when making the transfer with the name  that was on the beneficiary bank account.  I can 
understand their strength  of feeling on this matter  as to them it feels  like a failure  in Lloyds 
system. Ive considered  whether  Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when it processed the 
payment. At the time when the payment was made,  banks were only required to use the 
account number  and sort code to identify a beneficiary account. So, it wasnt  a requirement 
to also use the name  and for many  financial  institutions this wasnt even possible.  So, for this 
payment in question, Lloyds has processed  the payment as we would expect.
Mr and Mrs G made Lloyds aware  that they had been the victims of a scam  on 31 January 
and Lloyds have  shown they contacted the beneficiary bank to request a return  of the funds 
on the same  day. So, I think  it acted  quickly  to try and get a refund for Mr and Mrs G and I 
dont think it could have  done more in the circumstances. Unfortunately,  the beneficiary bank 
responded to Lloyds  on 7 February to confirm that none of Mr and Mrs Gs funds remained. 
Mr and Mrs G also complained about  the customer  service they received when they raised  
the scam  complaint with Lloyds. Lloyds  accepted  that it didnt  stick to the timescale  it set 
when responding to Mr and Mrs G. To apologise  for this, it gave them  a total of £57 to cover 
the cost of their calls and for any trouble and upset the issue  caused them.  On balance, I 
think this was reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr and Mrs G have unfortunately been victims of a convincing scam. Having carefully 
considered the actions  of Lloyds, I can see no reason why it should  have treated the 
payment of £2,094.26 as suspicious or unusual in the circumstances, so I think it was correct 
to process the transfer. And once it was made aware of the scam, I think  it acted quickly  to 
try and recover the funds  from the beneficiary bank.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1999279