K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC told him he would receive £11,000 from his life 
insurance policy at the end of its term - when he reaches  70.
background
Mr G said he was told the policy was a condition of opening a business  bank account; he 
was given misleading and incorrect information, and the policy  documentation  was sent to 
the wrong address so hed not received it.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel his complaint  should  be upheld.
He felt the evidence showed that Barclays had not advised Mr G to take out the policy;  
rather he had chosen to take it out on a non-advised basis  and there was no evidence to 
indicate he had been forced to do so.  He  noted  that Mr G had signed the relevant 
documentation which  made no reference  to any pay-out. He was also not persuaded that 
Barclays had sent the key documents to an old/previous address at that point in time. 
Mr G did not agree, and said:
He signed  the agreement because  he was happy with the benefits  as outlined  by the 
advisor
His son was present when this policy  was discussed and his recollection is the same
During times of financial  hardship  he would have cancelled the policy if hed not been 
expecting a pay-out  in retirement
He moved from his previous address in November 2013. If Barclays  claims it was not 
informed of his new address  this is incorrect; he subsequently received bank 
statements at this new address
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake. In this context  I do not think  there 
is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that Barclays did something  wrong.
Firstly, I should explain  that I do not think it is surprising, or necessarily suspicious,  that the 
member of staff who sold this policy is no longer employed or easily contactable.  So I dont 
agree that this offers persuasive evidence about  what was, or wasnt, discussed  or indicate 
that Barclays is seeking to hide something.
While I dont dispute Mr Gs recollection  albeit from nearly a decade  ago - I think  it is 
unlikely that the staff member would have promised this policy would pay out at the end of its 
term given that term assurance policies simply offer life insurance for the period in question, 
with the premiums designed  for that purpose  alone.  Life policies which offer the possibility of 
a pay-out invariably  spell out the many  variables affecting potential pay-outs and never, in 
my experience, guarantee a specific  sum on a specific date as any pay-out would be 
dependent on investment returns.
Ref: DRN14423822For these reasons it seems to me very unlikely that an employee would make  such  a basic  
error, particularly in guaranteeing a specific sum when none of the paperwork makes  
mention of this (though I accept this is not impossible).
Further, Mr G signed the application form to take out this term insurance. In my view he had 
a responsibility to check what he was agreeing to purchase.  I acknowledge that many people  
do not always read the small print of financial documents  but I think  Mr G ought reasonably 
to have checked the basic details  of the policy he was buying. I accept he may not have 
done so but I cant that I therefore ought to give him the benefit of the doubt  over what was 
allegedly discussed.
I note the dispute  over whether Barclays sent the policy documentation to the correct  
address and whether he informed it of his new address before this point. From the limited 
information available,  it looks as if Mr G did not move to his new address till some weeks  
after Barclays sent the documents so I dont  believe  it can be held responsible if he did not 
receive them.
Overall, I do not believe there  is sufficient,  persuasive evidence  to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1442382