K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains CIS General Insurance Limited has handled his buildings  insurance claim 
unfairly.
background
In March 2018 Mr H discovered damage to a flat roof on his property.  The kitchen below was 
also damaged  by water that had come through  the roof. He claimed on his CIS buildings  
insurance policy. 
CIS refused to pay for repairs to his roof. That decision  was looked at by this service  under a 
different complaint. But it agreed to cover  damage to the inside of his home.  
Mr H and CIS agreed a cash settlement for repairs to some of the tiles in his kitchen. But it 
was agreed that CIS contractors would carry out other repairs  in the property. But they also 
removed those tiles the cash settlement had been  paid for. Mr H didnt plan to use the 
money to replace the tiles. He was going  to leave the damage  unrepaired. So he says CIS 
should replace  them  at its own cost.  It said it could replace the tiles, but only if Mr H returns  
the cash settlement.     
Our investigator didnt  recommend that CIS replace the tiles at its own cost.  Mr H didnt 
accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.   
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making CIS do 
anything differently.
CIS says it thought  it was doing Mr H a favour by removing the tiles and plastering the walls 
underneath. Mr H doesnt see it like that. He wanted to leave the tiles, put up with the 
damage and keep the cash  for other purposes. So he feels  CIS has unfairly removed  that 
option. 
But even if I accepted CIS made  a mistake, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to make it do 
the work  without the cash being  returned.  Its offered to replace the tiles if the cash is 
returned. So he can accept that offer or use the cash to pay for the tiles to be replaced. I 
think thats fair and enough to make up for any mistake. 
I can understand why Mr H is frustrated. But if I made CIS do what he asks he would no 
longer be choosing to put up with the damage in exchange for keeping  the cash. Instead he 
would have both the cash and repaired tiles.   
Ref: DRN17161172my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making CIS General  Insurance  Limited do anything  
differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1716117