K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company has avoided  his policy  (treated it 
like it never  existed) and is trying to recover costs from him that it paid to a third party.  
Background
In 2015, Mr M says he began browsing  cars online.  He came across  a listing for a car which 
he liked the look of. He researched details of the car, like its service history, the most  
common problems and its likely running  costs. The car was out of Mr Ms budget,  and he 
couldnt get credit, so his brother bought  it on the basis  that Mr M would later buy it from him. 
In 2017, Mr M took out insurance for the car via a price comparison website. During the 
application process he was asked has the car been modified in any way?  He answered no. 
When he bought  a policy from Southern Rock, he was sent a policy  schedule which listed his 
answers to various  questions from the application.  It said Modifications; e.g. to engine, 
body, wheels, suspension  No. 
In summer  2018, Mr M was involved in an accident whereby he crashed  into a road barrier. 
He made  a claim with Southern Rock but ultimately  decided  to cancel it. He considered he 
wasnt being offered  a fair value and in the meantime he was being charged  for storage, so 
he sold the car for scrap. He added another car to his policy,  but allowed it to lapse at the 
next renewal date. During this period, Southern  Rock received an invoice from the 
construction company whod carried out the repair work to the road barrier. 
Southern Rock noted that its engineer had observed  that the car had several modifications, 
including window deflectors, privacy glass,  an air filter induction  kit and decals. It concluded 
Mr M had made a misrepresentation during the application process. It said it wouldnt have 
offered Mr M a policy  if it had known  the car had any modifications  (unless  they were  
adaptations for a disability). 
It told Mr M that it had no option  but to settle the construction  companys invoices under the 
Road Traffic Act. But as a result  of the misrepresentation, it now considered the policy  void,  
and was treating  it as though it had never  existed. It said it was keeping Mr Ms premiums 
and demanded  he repay  its costs. It also notified fraud detection agencies. 
Mr M thought Southern  Rock was treating him unfairly. By the time Southern  Rock  voided 
the policy it had already  lapsed. He said he hadnt realised the car was modified, and hed 
thought all of the modifications the engineer had highlighted came  as standard.  He insisted 
that he hadnt made any attempt to conceal  anything  from Southern  Rock.  He felt it was just 
trying to get out of paying the construction companys claim. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She interpreted from a vehicle  
order form that the seller  of the car hadnt made Mr M aware of any modifications. And she 
didnt think a reasonable person, without  specialist knowledge, would have noticed the car 
had been modified just from looking at it, particularly as it was a sport edition. She was also 
satisfied from pictures  shed been shown by Mr M that the car had already been modified 
when he bought it (as opposed to modified by him after the sale).  
Overall, she concluded  Mr M had answered the application questions to the best of his 
knowledge, which meant Southern Rock had no remedy in law. She said it should remove  
any record of the voidance, reconsider the claim and pay Mr M £250 compensation. 
Ref: DRN19293682Southern Rock asked for the case to be reconsidered by an ombudsman. It conceded that 
Mr M may have answered the application  questions  incorrectly through carelessness (rather 
than deliberately or recklessly), but it still thought a reasonable person would have  noticed  
the car had been modified, or would  have checked  if they werent sure.  So, it remained of 
the opinion that Mr M had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
I need to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This sets a duty on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to meet this duty,  the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation,  the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy  on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying  misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Explanations of this 
were included in Mr Ms insurance proposal, policy document, welcome letter  and the terms 
of business document he received after purchasing  the policy. 
Did Southern Rock  ask a clear  and accurate question? 
I think the question  in itself was clear,  and a reasonable person would have understood it to 
be asking whether any changes had been  made  to the car from its original  condition.  So, Ive 
gone on to consider why Mr M says he gave the answer he did. 
Was reasonable care taken? 
Im satisfied that none of the modifications Southern Rocks engineer  observed  come as 
standard (or even  as optional additions)  on this model. Southern Rock did at one point allege 
that the spoiler was a modification, but Im satisfied thats a standard feature. 
The standard of care set out in CIDRA  is that of a reasonable consumer. So, for me to agree 
that Mr M has taken reasonable care, Id need  to be satisfied that a reasonable consumer  
wouldnt have realised  the car had been modified. If I think a reasonable consumer would 
have been on notice that the car might be modified, Id expect Mr M to have checked.
Mr M maintains that the car is in the same  condition as when he bought  it. And he thought  
hed bought the car as stock. Hes highlighted that his model is the luxury sport model.  So, 
he didnt find it noteworthy  that the car had features that made  it look sporty.  And he didnt 
know an air filter induction  kit had been added to the engine.  
Ref: DRN19293683I think our investigator has established,  on balance, that its unlikely the modifications were 
brought to Mr Ms (or his brothers)  attention during the sale. The dealership  has confirmed 
the car was sold as seen. It said it hadnt used  the box on its vehicle order forms headed 
special bodywork, factory fitted  options  since it stopped modifying cars many years  ago. 
Our investigator was also only able to locate one online listing  from the time Mr Ms brother 
bought the car. This didnt  refer to any modifications. And there  was doubt about whether 
this is the listing Mr M would have seen in any event.  It was a private listing,  whereas  Mr Ms 
brother bought the car from a dealership, and there was a gap of a few weeks  between  the 
listing being taken  offline and Mr Ms brother buying the car from a dealership. Ive thought 
about whether  Mr M ought to have realised  the car had been modified for any other reason. 
There are in fact five different models  of Mr Ms car. Each one has different specifications.  
And the manufacturer also offers optional equipment and accessories. That means there 
isnt necessarily a straightforward reference point in terms  of what  the standard version of 
the car should  look like compared to one thats been  modified. Although, I recognise Mr M 
researched the car after seeing it listed online, so its likely he at least carried out his online  
research based  on this particular model.  
Mr M says his research included the service history, common problems and running  costs. 
I wouldnt expect him to have studied  the specification in such detail that hed have realised 
upon seeing the car that minor ornamental details  (like window deflectors)  werent standard.  
And thinking about the appearance of Mr Ms car, I dont think the other modifications would 
have been recognisable  as modifications to a consumer without specialist knowledge either. 
The air filter induction kit was under  the bonnet, and the standard  specification  does mention 
tinted windows. The engineer has said privacy glass has been  added,  but Im not persuaded 
a reasonable consumer  would realise the difference. I also find it unlikely that a reasonable 
consumer would recognise that small  decals (stickers) would be considered  a modification. 
Whilst there was reference  to tuning  on the decal in the rear window, I think  its onerous to 
expect a reasonable consumer to have assumed that the decal was anything  other  than 
decorative, having not been  made  aware of any modifications during the sale. 
From Mr Ms perspective, the seller had the chance  to highlight any modifications to his 
brother using the order form, in the box headed  special bodywork, factory  fitted options. 
The fact this box was left blank would have  reinforced Mr Ms understanding  that the car was 
sold as standard.  He wasnt to know the dealership no longer used that section of the form.  
In addition, for the reasons given  above, it wasnt necessarily to be unexpected that the car 
would have sporty or luxury features that didnt appear on other models. The manufacturer 
advertises this model as having a dramatic exterior sporty body kit. All of the external 
modifications are consistent with that description. 
Our investigator noted that the online listing we found included  pictures  of the car without 
any modifications. But Im not persuaded this is a reliable record of the online listing Mr M 
would have seen  (given the inconsistencies mentioned previously).  I therefore  dont intend to 
treat is as such.  
Im persuaded from the photographic evidence presented by Mr M that the car had already 
been modified  when  his brother bought it. The picture hes sent us shows the car, with its 
modifications, bearing the previous  owners private  number  plate,  which was removed on the 
day the car was sold to Mr Ms brother. 
Ref: DRN19293684Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr M wasnt aware his car had been  modified, and that a 
reasonable consumer wouldnt have been on notice that the car had been modified either. 
Therefore, I dont think Mr M would have  had any reason to think his answer to the question  
has your car been modified in any way? might be incorrect, or needed checking. 
So, I think Mr M met his duty to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation, and 
that Southern  Rock  therefore has no remedy under CIDRA. It follows  that Southern Rock will 
need to reinstate the policy Mr M had, treat the third partys claim as though  it was dealt  with 
under the terms  of the policy, and remove all record of the voidance from any internal and 
external databases.  
Our investigator recommended Southern Rock pay Mr M £250 to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its demands for payment while he was studying at university. 
Im wary that Southern  Rock also made Mr M aware it had notified fraud detection agencies. 
Taking everything into account,  I agree  that the amount of compensation our investigator 
recommended is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint,  and direct Southern Rock Insurance  Company to:
Reinstate the policy Mr M had;
Remove any record of the policy voidance from internal and external databases;
Record the settlement of the third partys claim  as being paid out under the terms of 
Mr Ms insurance policy  and stop pursuing Mr M for the outlay; 
Pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the stress he was caused  during his studies.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Mike Walker
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1929368