K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Topaz Finance Limited  is being unreasonable  in dealing with her now 
that her mortgage term has expired. Mrs R wants time in order to sell a property abroad and 
says that Topaz is being unreasonable in asking her to appoint a solicitor  in the UK.
background
Mrs R got an interest only mortgage  along  with her late husband in 2007 for £100,000.  
Mrs R says the capital  raised  at that time was to buy a property abroad and the capital was 
to be repaid from the sale of that property.  The mortgage was for a ten year term and the 
term expired in March  2017. Mr R unfortunately died in July 2014.  
Topaz says that it wrote to Mrs R in November 2016  about clearing the outstanding  balance 
on expiry of the mortgage. It says that it in April 2017 it spoke to Mrs Rs son who rang to 
say that it was intended to pay off the capital balance  from the sale of property abroad.  This 
required a grant of probate as the owner  had died and Mrs R and her son were the 
beneficiaries. When  the Grant of Probate had been extracted the property would then be 
sold and the proceeds would  be used  to pay off the mortgage account with Topaz.  Topaz 
says that it requested supporting documentation  and Mr R agreed to supply it.
Topaz says it got some  documents in June 2017 but that they were  of poor quality and not in 
English. It says that Mr R contacted them to say that the sale of the property would take 
place on 12 October 2017  and the mortgage redeemed by 31 October 2017. Topaz agreed 
forbearance on the account  until that date but the mortgage wasnt redeemed.
Topaz was then told on 8 January 2018  that the date for the probate registration  was 6 April 
2018. On 11 January 2018 Topaz asked before it would allow a further forbearance  that 
Mrs R appoints a solicitor  in the United Kingdom to confirm that the sale of land was 
progressing and that Mrs R was a beneficiary.  Topaz wanted  this confirmed by 7 February  
2018 but as this didnt  occur it asked for final proposals or it would proceed with legal action.
Mrs R says that there is a property abroad which is more valuable than the mortgage but 
that it needs to be divided  and split because it was open plan and its sale was delayed due 
to the death of her brother in law in March  2018.  In June 2018 Mrs R wrote to us to say that 
it could take another 7 months to resolve. Mrs R says that the request for the appointment of 
a UK solicitor is an unreasonable request.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the main  part of this complaint is that Topaz  was unreasonable  in asking Mrs R to 
appoint a UK solicitor  she also says that she believed that she would be allowed to stay in 
the property until she died if she signed  an undertaking. But Ive been provided with no 
evidence that this occurred. It would seem  a very unusual  offer for a lender to make and in 
Ref: DRN10831432all the circumstances  I believe that Mrs R may have  misunderstood a conversation but I 
dont consider that it's reasonable for me to hold Topaz to that.
Mrs Rs mortgage term has expired and the agreement  between her late husband and 
herself was to repay the mortgage at the end of its term which is now almost three years 
ago. As Mrs R was not in a positon to do that at the time she proposed that Topaz  wait a 
short period  to allow her to sell a property abroad. I noted that on 5 Aril 2017 Mr R had a 
phone call with Topaz to say that the mortgage money was used to buy land abroad,  that the 
person who lived there  had died and so it was a matter of taking out probate and selling that 
land. In July 2017 Mrs Rs son phoned Topaz to say that the matter had progressed and he 
hoped for completion  of the sale by 12 October 2017.Mrs Rs son referred to needing to 
place an advert in the newspaper asking  for other claimants to the land and then this would 
allow the land registry to release the land. 
But the land has not yet sold.  Its not clear to me why that is. Mrs Rs son spoke to Topaz in 
January 2018  and referred to a date of 6 April 2018  when  they would get probate and the 
deeds of the land. No explanation  was given as to what  happened  to the proposed  sale of 
land in October of the previous year. In January 2018 Topaz told Mrs Rs son that in order to 
consider any further forbearance it required contact from a UK solicitor to confirm  that the 
sale of land is progressing  and that Mrs R was a beneficiary. The next reference in the 
contact notes to a sale is in October 2018  when  Mrs Rs son phoned Topaz to say that the 
property abroad was to sell in four to five weeks from then for £375,000. 
So I can see that Mrs R asked for time to sell a property abroad. Topaz appears to have 
been willing  to work with her and give her some  time. But Topaz wanted Mrs R to appoint a 
solicitor in the UK to confirm that the sale of land was progressing. At that stage a proposed  
sale in October 2017 had for some  reason  not occurred. Its not clear what this property is, 
who owns it and what Mrs Rs entitlement to it is. It would be helpful  to Topaz if it could  get 
this information.  As some  of these are legal questions I can understand  why Topaz would  
want information from a solicitor representing  Mrs R. Its quite usual in this type of situation 
that a lender will ask for information from professionals acting on behalf of the borrower, so 
this request isnt unusual.  
Topaz requirement was for a UK solicitor to represent Mrs R although  the proposed 
transaction was happening abroad. I noted that there was a problem that any documents  
Topaz received  were  unclear and not in English.  Topaz was assisting Mrs R in agreeing to 
wait for the proposed sale of a property abroad  and it required information about  the 
progress of the proposed sale in English.  I dont consider that its reasonable that the 
burden of translating  any documents from a foreign language or presenting  the requirements 
of a foreign law jurisdiction should fall on Topaz.  Topaz conducts  its business in the UK and 
UK law applies to the mortgage.  So I believe that it was a reasonable request for Topaz to 
require that Mrs R appoint  a solicitor in the UK that it could deal with on her behalf  and on 
that basis I do not uphold this complaint. 
Topaz asked for this in January 2018. It would  seem that in the two years  since then that the 
property hasnt been sold and as Ive noted  above  there is no definite information as to what 
the property is, who owns it and what Mrs Rs entitlement to it is. I appreciate that back at 
the beginning of 2018 that Topaz indicated that given the receipt  of certain  information  it 
would consider giving further  time for the sale. I also note that since  then Mrs R has 
effectively had a further two years but no sale has taken place. Although  I would urge Topaz 
to consider any concrete proposals  that Mrs R has for repaying  the debt I cannot fairly  
require it to delay  any action it may wish to take on account of the sale of a property abroad.
Ref: DRN10831433In her recent email  to us of 24 November  2019  I noted that Mrs R made a number of 
additional points  about the initial sale of the mortgage to her and her late husband.  Firstly 
she says that Topaz didnt  complete  reasonable checks to satisfy  that the loan will be 
repayable.  This point about the original sale was not put to Topaz in this complaint and so I 
havent dealt with it here. But I note that the basis of Mrs Rs complaint is that the loan was 
to be repayable from the sale of the property  abroad which  she has been  trying to do. Mrs R 
has never made an issue that the loan couldnt  be paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the 
property abroad.  
Mrs R also states that she is vulnerable and that the loan was put into her name following Mr 
Rs death without  verifying affordability. I have  been  given no evidence that Mrs R is a 
vulnerable person and as it was a joint mortgage  the mortgage seems  to have passed to Mrs 
R by operation of law on Mr Rs death. It was not something that was due to any action by 
Topaz. So the further points made  by Mrs R havent  affected my view that I shouldnt   uphold 
this complaint.       
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1083143