K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) didnt close an account after he complained 
about it in 2014.
background
Mr N upgraded to an Ultimate Reward  Account (URCA) with BOS in 2010 and paid a fee for 
the URCA each month. In 2014 he complained about the upgrade and after BOSs 
response, he decided to take the complaint  no further.
Mr N says that BOS should  have  automatically  closed his account in 2014  as it was obvious  
he didnt want it. He asks for the fees he paid after the date of his complaint about the 
upgrade to be returned to him.
BOS says that it told Mr N what he needed  to do to close his account if he wished to, but he 
didnt do it, and it could  not close his account without a specific instruction from him.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. Mr N disagrees so the complaint has come 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ns complaint.
To be clear this decision is only about whether  BOS  should have closed the URCA in 2014 
and not about other  matters to do with the sale in 2009 and his use of the account which he 
has mentioned in his correspondence.
BOS has provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr N in 2014 following his complaint. In my 
view it tells him clearly what to do if he wants to close  his account. I would not expect  a 
financial institution to close an account without a specific instruction from the account holder. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  that Mr N followed what BOS told him to do or gave this 
specific instruction.
The letter was sent to the address BOS had on file for Mr N, and while its possible he didnt 
he didnt receive  it, I think its more likely than not that he did. I say this because  it contained  
the outcome of his complaint which he appears to have been aware of at the time and most 
correctly addressed letters are received.
So, I dont think BOS  did anything wrong in this matter. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Ref: DRN17400302Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1740030