K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages Mr O used to hold with 
The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB).  Mr O is unhappy that TMB wont  refund to him directly  
a number of charges it has identified as having  been  wrongly  applied.  Instead, it has set the 
refunds off against  the shortfalls that arose when the properties were  sold for less than Mr O 
owed it.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the amounts involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
In 2015, following a road accident, Mr O entered in to an individual  voluntary arrangement  
(IVA) in respect of his debts. Amongst  Mr Os debts were the two BTL mortgages  with 
TMB; in both cases, the mortgaged property had previously  been sold for less that the 
outstanding debt, leaving shortfalls of around  £49,000 and £62,000 respectively.
Recently, TMB carried out as review  of historic fees and charges applied to mortgage 
accounts; in Mr Os case, it identified charges totalling around £580 and £670 respectively 
that had been wrongly  applied. However,  rather than refund them to Mr O directly, TMB set 
them off against  the shortfalls.  Mr O thinks thats  wrong, because  TMB  agreed  as part of his 
IVA to write  the shortfalls  off.
Our investigator didnt  think TMB  had done anything  wrong. Mr O would like his complaint 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr O; I dont  think  TMBs done anything  wrong either. Ill explain why.
This complaint is simpler than its been  made  to look. If a business  makes a mistake,  we 
expect it to put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if it hadnt made  the 
Ref: DRN10074452mistake. Here,  TMBs mistake was debiting Mr Os accounts with the various fees and 
charges identified by the review exercise.  If it hadnt done that, Mr Os accounts  wouldnt 
have been debited, and his mortgage  balances  at the time of the property sales (and 
therefore the resulting shortfalls) would have been  correspondingly smaller. 
Thats the position Mr O now finds himself in as a result of the review exercise. The fact that 
hes been through an IVA in the meantime doesnt  change that. Thats because writing  off a 
debt doesnt mean what Mr O seems  to think it does. It doesnt mean a debt ceases to exist;  
it just means a lender has taken a commercial  decision  not to pursue the debtor for it. 
TMB hasnt tried to recover any of the shortfall debts from Mr O; all its done is acknowledge 
that, as a result of historic errors, each shortfall  should have  been  crystallised  at a lower 
amount than it was, and taken the necessary action to correct  the recorded  position. Mr O 
might find that unwelcome, but its not unfair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1007445