K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that a car she has been  financing through an agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander), is not of 
satisfactory quality and that she wasnt told about a service pack.
background
Miss H took receipt of a used car in October 2017.  She financed the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Santander. At the point of supply the car was about three 
years old and had already  completed nearly  27,000  miles.
Miss H complained to Santander that:
in October 2018 the car required  new brake pads and discs  and these  had therefore  
worn too quickly;
they hadnt made her aware of a service pack that was still valid on the car and from 
which she could have  benefitted;
the car seats  were damaged and they would not pay for a repair;
shed not been told all four alloy wheels had been refurbished and one had 
deteriorated. She didnt feel she should  accept a further refurbishment and she felt a 
replacement was more appropriate.
Santander said they thought the dealerships offer to refurbish the alloy wheels was 
reasonable. They explained  that brake  pad and disc wear was considered  wear  and tear and 
they would  not reimburse  the costs  Miss H had incurred.
So Miss H referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  an opinion.  
She noted that the car had passed its MOT  prior to Miss H taking receipt  of it and also in 
September before the service was completed. She noted that no issues  were identified  with 
the brakes and discs  and she therefore  didnt think there  was evidence the faults were 
present or developing when the car was supplied: the point  at which  she explained the 
business were responsible for its quality. 
She explained that she thought it reasonable the alloys were refurbished prior to supply and 
she didnt think the business had to explain this to Miss H. She noted  that legislation  allowed 
the business one opportunity to repair a fault present when  supplied.  So she thought 
Santanders offer to refurbish the wheels  was a fair one.
She went on to consider  the fault with the seat that Miss H complained about. She noted that 
shed complained 11 months  after inception  of the deal and she didnt think  there was 
evidence that the seat was faulty  when supplied to Miss H.
She also didnt think  Santander  had to explain the service pack was still valid on the car and 
she explained that, as the service didnt form part of the finance arrangement, it wasnt 
something that this service could consider anyway.
So overall, the adjudicator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. But Miss H 
disagreed and she therefore  asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN10589442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss H so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Santander,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss H. The car 
here was around  three years old and had travelled about 27,000 miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.  
But Santanders responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
The relevant  legislation  would encourage us to assume that if a car developed a fault in the 
first six months it was likely to have been  there from the point of supply. The relevant 
legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
If the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the case.
the brake pads,  disc, spark plug and air filter replacements
I think its reasonable to consider these wear  and tear items. Im not persuaded they were in 
an unsatisfactory condition at the point of supply or have deteriorated  unacceptably.  Im 
Ref: DRN10589443supported in my view about the brakes  because the MOTs  completed  before sale and 
before the service  have suggested the brakes  were of a satisfactory standard  at that point.
the alloys
Relevant legislation allows  the business  one opportunity to repair a fault that was present at 
the point of supply. I think  it seems  most  likely that the alloy wheel was failing at that point 
because the dealership has explained they had refurbished the wheels. The dealership have 
offered to repair the problem and I think thats  all they should be required to do. In those 
circumstances I think Santander doesnt  need  to take any action.
I dont think Santander  had to tell Miss H the wheels  had been refurbished  prior to the car 
being supplied  to her. 
the seats
Miss H didnt complain about the marking on the seats for 11 months  and in those 
circumstances the relevant  legislation would suggest the onus was on her to demonstrate  
the seat was faulty or developing  a fault at the point of supply. Im not persuaded theres  
been sufficient  evidence of this.
the service pack
Miss H has explained  that she wasnt told about  the service pack  before she took ownership 
of the vehicle. The service pack isnt something that was financed  by Santander and its not 
something that I can therefore  reasonably  hold them  responsible  for. 
So, overall, Im afraid I dont think theres sufficient  evidence here that Santander  need  to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1058944