K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that Sainsburys Bank  Plc incorrectly recorded adverse information  on her 
credit file.
background 
Ms S has a Sainsburys credit  card.  In the summer of 2018,  Sainsburys experienced 
technical issues which meant their system didnt collect Direct Debits  in certain situations. 
Because of this they didnt collect Ms Ss August payment,  even though the Direct Debit  was 
in place and the funds  were available in Ms Ss account. Sainsburys charged Ms S a late 
payment fee and reported the non-payment  to the credit reference agencies.  
At the time this happened, Ms S was looking to move house. She had an offer from a 
prospective buyer for her existing property  and was looking for a property to move  to. But 
she says she had to delay her house sale and mortgage application because of the 
information on her credit  file about the Sainsburys card.  She says she wasnt  able to get a 
mortgage at the best rate. And she says she had to take a significant amount of time out of 
work to deal with this issue,  which has caused her considerable stress  and anxiety.
Sainsburys accept that the failure to collect the payment was a technical error on their part 
and wasnt Ms Ss fault. They  agreed to update the credit reference agencies  but, due to 
further technical issues, this didnt happen  straight  away. They  wrote  to Ms S in November 
2018 confirming  that all three  credit reference  agencies had been updated and that the late 
payment information  had been removed from her credit file. They accepted that the level of 
service they had given  Ms S was below expectation here and they offered her compensation 
of £275.
Ms S rejected Sainsburys offer. She didnt  think  it was enough to recognise  the way the 
situation had affected her. She says shes spent a great  deal of time on the phone  to 
Sainsburys about the situation  and that theyve taken too long to resolve  it. But Sainsburys 
werent able to increase their offer, so Ms S brought  her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that the offer made by Sainsburys was fair, so she didnt  ask them  
to do any more. But Ms S didnt agree  so she asked for an ombudsman to review  her 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys accept that this situation  was caused by a mistake on their part. Theyve now 
corrected the information  on Ms Ss credit  file and refunded the late payment fees. So I wont 
go over the detail of that in my decision. The issue I need to focus  on here is the amount of 
compensation which Sainsburys have offered and whether  I think  its enough here.
When considering  complaints,  Im bound by the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
which say we can only look at complaints  about  certain activities.  Complaint handling  isnt a 
regulated activity and its not one of the things this service can look into. So, although Im 
aware that Ms S is unhappy with the way Sainsburys  have dealt with this situation,  I cant  
Ref: DRN16800312make a decision about the way theyve handled the complaint. But Ive looked at all the other 
aspects of her complaint  and my findings  on those are set out below. 
Ms S says she had to delay her house  sale because of this situation.  I understand that she 
had an offer from a buyer which she was happy  with, but the sale hasnt gone ahead. Ms S 
says thats because of the issue with her Sainsburys card.  I havent  seen any evidence  that 
Ms S had found  a property to move to or that she had to pull out of a related purchase. So I 
find it unlikely that a sale would have gone ahead at that time even without this issue. And I 
havent seen anything which shows she has lost her buyer because of it. So I dont think I 
can fairly conclude  that the reason a sale didnt happen in the summer  / autumn of 2018 was 
because of Sainsburys mistake.
Ms S says she couldnt  apply for a mortgage while the non-payment information was 
showing on her credit file. Her credit  score changed from an excellent rating  to a fair 
rating while this issue  was ongoing.  And it changed back  to excellent  once  Sainsburys had 
removed the adverse  information. I can understand that Ms S wouldnt have wanted to apply 
for a mortgage while her credit score was lower than usual. But I dont think  that would have 
stopped her from looking for properties.  And I havent seen any evidence that she had found  
a property which she wanted to proceed with at that time. So I cant conclude that any delay 
in her applying  for a mortgage was Sainsburys fault.
Ms S says that, when she did apply for a mortgage,  she was offered a higher rate of interest 
because of the information on her credit file. I havent seen  any evidence of an actual 
mortgage application, but rather  an appointment in early  November 2018  to discuss a 
mortgage in principle. Im satisfied that Ms Ss credit file had been updated by then. And her 
mortgage adviser has confirmed that there  were  other reasons why he recommended  a 
particular lender on a particular  rate. Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that it 
wasnt the issue with Sainsburys which meant  the best rate wasnt  available  to Ms S. 
For the reasons  above, I havent  seen  any evidence of losses which were caused by 
Sainsburys mistake. But the situation was stressful for Ms S and caused her inconvenience, 
particularly at a time when  she was looking to move house. So I think  a compensation 
payment is appropriate  here.  Ms S has explained the way she was affected and Ive taken 
all her points into account to decide on the appropriate level of compensation here.  
Our awards  arent intended  to punish a business  but rather to reflect the impact which  a 
mistake has had on a customer and put that right, so far as possible. Its very difficult  to put a 
monetary value on the stress and inconvenience  caused by a situation  like this. I have to be 
impartial, so Ive balanced what Ms S has said about the way it affected her against the fact 
that Sainsburys accepted they were at fault and took steps to put things right.  I think  they 
could have acted  more quickly here.  But theyve  explained  that the fault with their system  
meant that the non-payment information was reported to the credit reference  agencies later 
than usual. And when  they asked for it to be corrected, they did this as an urgent request.  So 
the adverse information was only on Ms Ss file for a short amount of time.  But it was at a 
time which made it particularly stressful and inconvenient for her.
Taking everything into account,  I think £275  (which Sainsburys have already offered) is a 
fair amount of compensation here.
Ref: DRN16800313my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt done so already, Sainsburys  Bank  
Plc should pay compensation of £275  to Ms S for the distress and inconvenience which this 
situation has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1680031