K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the way her home  insurance claim for water  damage was handled 
by Millennium Insurance Company Limited,  and with the proposed settlement figures put 
forward.
 
background
In September  2016 Miss M had a water leak from her first floor ensuite  bathroom, causing 
significant damage. Millennium appointed a loss adjuster  to review the claim. Due to a lack 
of progress in the early  stages of her claim, Miss M found it necessary to make a complaint  
to this service. An ombudsman reviewed her complaint and made findings that up until 
June 2017, through its handling  of this claim Millennium had caused Miss M a meaningful
amount of avoidable  trouble and upset over an unnecessarily  long period  of time. She was 
therefore awarded £750 compensation.  The complaint  didnt consider any issue in respect  of 
settlement of the claim.
Miss M initially  employed a loss assessor and through him she obtained an estimate for the 
repairs, in the sum of £30,686.44  plus VAT.  Millennium believed  this to be overstated  and 
offered £21,000.  It wasnt (at that stage)  prepared to offer any VAT. Miss M thought  that the 
scope of works wasnt sufficient. She went into alternative accommodation at the beginning 
of the claim, but as insufficient  interim  payments were made, she was forced to move out of 
that accommodation. Millennium subsequently  increased its offer to the figure in Miss Ms 
estimate (including VAT), although  less £2,000 it thought had been over scoped.
Miss M didnt accept that sum, and also pointed out that the payment proposed for her 
alternative accommodation wasnt sufficient. She also had a contents claim that was 
considered by Millennium and again she didnt  think  the offer made was enough. 
On review by our investigator, he thought that Millennium should  carry out a reinspection  
and consider items that Miss M believed hadnt been covered  in the scope of works. He also 
said that Millennium should pay the full cost of alternative accommodation, and reconsider  
its offer for the contents. He also said it should  pay a reasonable amount for the extra 
heating and drying costs.  He pointed out in particular that Millennium should be making an 
interim payment at least so Miss M could get the work under way.
Miss M then employed a surveyor who produced  a new scope of works as of July 2018. 
The matter  was referred to me for consideration. I asked  if Miss Ms new scope could  be 
costed before putting it to Millennium.  Unfortunately  that took a fair bit of time but Miss M did 
arrange for the scope to be fully costed.  We put this to Millennium  but it wasnt prepared to 
consider the new scope.  It proposed  either reinstating the property based  on Miss Ms first 
estimate or a cash settlement in the sum of that estimate.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Millennium should pay the amounts set out in 
Miss Ms second schedule in so far as those figures werent included in the first schedule  
(which it should also pay). This comes  to a total of £48,067.35 . Alternatively I said it should  
arrange to carry  out the repairs, if Miss M agreed. 
Millennium objected to this. It believed  the figures  to have been overscoped/duplicated. It 
also repeated its earlier  arguments that Miss M had contributed to the deterioration of the 
property by her refusal to co-operate earlier in the claim.
Ref: DRN12369222With regard to the contents I said that as Miss M had only recently started  to negotiate  with 
Millennium it should reconsider her claim in respect  of these. Miss M has recently  tried to 
negotiate further with Millennium  concerning the contents but its not prepared to pay her the 
amounts she has requested. It has very recently paid her £28,000, which Miss M doesnt 
accept as a full settlement.
Miss M has provided additional estimates for the rewiring  of the property, alarm system  and 
the cost of carpets. She also claims further costs for project managing and maintenance of 
the garden and regular  cleaning of the property.  She doesnt want Millennium  to arrange to  
carry out the further repairs  needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
previous decision
In my provisional decision I said:
I should  point out that Im bound by the findings of the previous ombudsman  and can only 
consider matters arising since  the end of June 2017. But some  of those findings are relevant 
to my consideration of Miss Ms subsequent  complaint.  These are in particular that:
It had clearly taken an unusually long time for this claim to be resolved.  The home was 
left in a damp and uninhabitable state for a long time before any action was taken.
Alternative accommodation should  have  been  offered at an early  stage. It was very 
disappointing that Millennium didnt appear to have responded for several months to 
Miss Ms request to pay for the cost of alternative  accommodation.
Millennium has said that Miss M slowed down the process  by changing  her view of the 
work that needed to be done. The information  shows that her concerns were  mostly 
valid. It was Millenniums  responsibility to keep the process moving  and to find a 
resolution.
I know Miss M has been awarded compensation for those issues.  But I think they had a 
knock on effect, the results of which fell outside  the scope of distress  and inconvenience 
compensation considered by my colleague,  particularly in respect of the building  remaining 
damp and uninhabitable  for a prolonged period. This has in my view significantly affected the 
amount of work  now needed to reinstate the property to its pre-loss condition (which  is what 
the policy requires  Millennium to do).
I note that Millennium  seeks to argue that Miss M is responsible for the deterioration of her 
property due to her earlier non co-operation.  I should point out that the copy emails it has 
sent us in that respect were  considered  by the previous ombudsman, all of them being dated 
prior to June 2017. I would draw its attention again to the finding that The information  shows 
that her concerns  were mostly valid. It was Millenniums responsibility to keep the process 
moving and to find a resolution. I dont think,  in arguing that Miss M was at fault for the 
deterioration, that Millennium properly appreciates the first ombudsmans findings. Im bound 
by those findings and I cant revisit it. I would further  point  out that Millennium could very 
Ref: DRN12369223easily have released  an interim payment for the undisputed  part of the costs. Apart from very 
recently releasing a payment for contents, it hasnt  done so.
scope of works
In my provisional decision I said:
When our investigator set out his view he made it clear that, as the claim had been 
accepted, Millennium  didnt need  to wait for our investigation  to finish.  In particular it could 
have offered Miss M an interim payment  to at least carry out some  mitigation works or to 
start the main work. Its disappointing  that it failed to do this.
As regards  Miss Ms latest scope of work,  I should point out that Im not an expert  in 
surveying matters and have to rely on the expertise of those employed  either  by Miss M or 
Millennium to decide whats fair and reasonable. Miss M has previously had a scope of 
works drawn  up. That scope (from January 2017) was considerably expanded by the latest 
(July 2018) scope.  I think it would be fair to say that leaving  the property as it was with only 
minimal drying out has added to the work  now needed to repair the property. 
I think that a fair settlement would be to take the original priced scope of works. Then the 
cost of any additional repairs, as detailed and priced on the new scope, can be added to 
create an up to date, and therefore reasonable settlement figure. The original price  was 
£30,686.44 plus VAT, making a total price of £36,823.72. To this should be added the total 
of the cost for the following items, plus VAT (which  are set out in the order in which they 
appear in the July 2018 scope of works):
[As both parties have  seen the full details of the updated figures I set out here only a 
summary figure for each room]:
Room/Item Price £
General      600.00
Hallway:   1279.70
Under Stairs  Cupboard:     194.18
Staircase     412.97
WC Room:       30.00
Dining Room:     272.80
Utility Room:       20.00
Living Room:     496.55
First Floor Landing :     537.66
Front Small Bedroom:     217.46
Rear Bedroom:     685.01
Bathroom:     420.00
Dressing Room/Bedroom :  1190.57
Front Master Bedroom   1261.64
Ensuite Bathroom :     887.50
Airing Cupboard:     890.65
Sub Total
Add VAT
TOTAL  9369.69
  1873.94
11243.63
Ref: DRN12369224I havent  accounted  for repairs or refurbishment of UPVC windows or doors.  Those items 
appear to me to be general maintenance rather than water  related damage.  Its unusual  for 
UPVC to be damaged  by moisture.  Where the previous contractor quoted  for chipboard  
flooring the subsequent scope allows for tongue and grooved floorboards.  But comparing the 
prices there is very little difference so I dont propose to make an allowance for that.
So I propose to require Millennium  either  to pay by way of cash settlement for the building  
the total figure of:
Old Scope plus uplift £36,823.72. 
New scope with 20% VAT £11,243.63
Total £48,067.35
Or, if Miss M consents, Millennium should  arrange to have the work carried  out according  to 
the new scope  of works. I appreciate that the old scope of works is now more  than two years 
old. But I think that can be adequately compensated for if it pays a cash  settlement by 
adding 8% simple interest from the date of the claim to the date of settlement. I propose to 
make an award to that effect.
I must emphasise here that this service isnt here to provide a claims handling service.  We 
provide an alternative  dispute resolution  service  in order  to provide an informal resolution of 
disputes. Bearing that in mind I have assessed the matter on the basis  of what  is in my view 
fair and reasonable.
I should set out here that Millennium has seen the full costed scopes  both the old and new 
ones. It points out that in the second  scope the figures (though not the scope) are hand 
written. Im generally satisfied that the scope was drawn up by a surveyor  and the figures 
written in by a contractor.  I arranged  for the scope to be sent to Millennium so it could  make  
comments on it before I drew up my decision. It chose not to do so. Having considered  its 
further comments now and having compared both schedules  myself  Im satisfied there is no 
duplication. As to the figures in my view they are reasonable. Theyre  not excessive 
compared to the first schedule which was accepted by Millennium. I refer to my earlier  
comments that the property has essentially been  allowed to deteriorate  when  Millennium 
could have progressed  the matter earlier or paid an interim payment.
Miss M has asked for further costs to be added to the schedule. I dont think  thats 
reasonable. As Ive said Im not a surveyor so I have  to rely on the expertise of those 
providing reports. Miss M having appointed a surveyor to draw  up a schedule  of works I think 
it fair and reasonable that I take its findings at face value. Specifically Miss M has asked for 
the cost of a new alarm system. As far as I can see that was already  previously  allowed  for, 
but once the works are carried out if the payment made in that  respect  wasnt sufficient , 
Miss M should put the full detail, with any necessary expert  report  of what  further  may be 
needed to Millennium  to consider further.
I have a similar view with regard to the electrics, for which Miss M has got a quote for 
complete rewiring. The original scope allowed for an electrical  test and a provision of £700 
for electrical  work. Complete rewiring after an escape of water  isnt usually necessary. But if, 
once the testing is done Miss M can supply expert evidence to Millennium that further  
electrical work is necessary, it can consider it further.
As for paying  for professional ongoing cleaning and garden maintenance, I can understand 
why Miss M wants to do this. But Im not persuaded that these  are necessary costs that 
Millennium should pay for. With regard to project  management our investigator previously 
Ref: DRN12369225advised Miss M that he didnt think Millennium should  pay those costs. I agree  we wouldnt 
normally allow such costs unless it was for a particularly difficult  rebuild (e.g. following a fire 
or subsidence claim). Im not persuaded that this repair is so complex as to reasonably 
require professional management,  or the cost that entails. And I note the surveyor  didnt 
recommend that when  drawing up his scope of works. Im not going  to make Millennium pay 
such costs here.
Miss M has sent us an estimate for the carpets. These form part of the contents  claim and 
should be considered by Millennium under that.
Miss M has told us she would prefer a cash settlement. So I maintain  my view that 
Millennium should pay such a settlement as Ive set out above.
alternative accommodation
In my provisional decision I said:
Millennium should pay any outstanding cost to Miss M for the alternative accommodation 
she stayed in. Miss M should  produce any invoices for this. It should add 8% simple  interest  
from the date Miss M paid any such invoices to the date of reimbursement.
Going forward I think that Millennium should  consider paying the reasonable costs of 
alternative accommodation for Miss M during the repairs to the property. If the parties cant 
agree on what the reasonable costs  should  be, then Miss M has the right to make a further 
complaint about  it which can ultimately be referred  back to this service.
Miss M has shown us some  invoices she has incurred   she should  put these to Millennium  
for payment. Whist she may have in the past stayed with her mother  I dont think  it 
reasonable to expect  her to always or continue to do so. So I maintain my view that 
Millennium should pay for her alternative accommodation costs incurred so far and that it 
should consider  a payment for such costs during the repairs.  I cant assess them as I dont 
know how long the repairs will take or where  she will be staying. She should put any 
proposed costs to Millennium for it to consider.
contents
In my provisional decision I said:
As I understand it, Millennium  has valued  the damaged/ destroyed contents and made an 
offer of £28,000.  Miss M has listed a number of items which Millennium  has failed to make 
an offer for. She also says that other items  have been considerably  undervalued. And as she 
has only recently been negotiating with Millennium about this I think  its fair that it should  
review the items it hasnt  made an offer for. Regarding the undervalued  items, I understand 
Miss M has valuations. As Im requiring Millennium  to consider other  items,  it should 
reconsider the items Miss M has valuations for too, taking note of that evidence.  I propose 
that it reconsider this matter. 
I understand that Millennium has paid Miss M £28,000 and isnt prepared  to pay any more.  I 
think it should still reconsider the contents particularly in light of the fact that Miss M is 
claiming for the replacement of carpets. If its not prepared to increase its offer after such  
reconsideration, Miss M will have to make  a further  complaint  about  it.
Ref: DRN12369226heating/drying costs
In my provisional decision I said:
The parties have agreed that Millennium  should pay the reasonable costs of heating and 
drying the property.  Again  if the parties cant agree on what the reasonable costs  should be, 
then Miss M has the right to make a further complaint about it which can ultimately be 
referred back to this service.
As neither party has raised any objection to this I maintain my provisional view.
surveyors fee
In my provisional decision I said:
Miss M has incurred  a fee of £534  for this. I think it fair that Millennium  should pay this. She 
should provide  the receipted  invoice  to Millennium  and it should add 8% simple interest from 
the date she paid it until it repays her.
Millennium objected to paying  this as it didnt agree to pay any surveyors  fee prior to it being 
incurred. I note that, but in the circumstances  of this case  I dont think Miss M had any 
choice but to incur  those  costs to review the work needed following further deterioration of 
the property. I still think  Millennium should pay the fees. Miss M should send any invoices 
directly to Millennium.
compensation
In my provisional decision I said:
Miss M has specifically  asked  that I dont consider any health issues,  so I wont  do so. I 
have to bear in mind  also that compensation has already  been  awarded for the period up 
until June 2017.  Nevertheless for the delays  since then and taking into account  that 
Millennium unreasonably  said it wouldnt pay VAT and some other items from the scope of 
works initially, and that it declined  to consider any interim payment or mitigation works, I 
think the compensation of £550 proposed is fair and reasonable.
 
I note that Miss M argues  that she should receive  further compensation. But I think the main 
problems with the way Millennium dealt with the claim arose before June 2017 and have 
already been compensated  for following the previous  decision and ombudsmans award.  For 
the issues that have arisen since then, I maintain my view that the proposed payment of 
£550 is fair and reasonable.
overall
Im satisfied that my provisional findings are fair and reasonable. So I maintain those findings 
as set out above. They now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Millennium  Insurance Company Limited to:
Ref: DRN12369227pay Miss M £48,067.35  as a cash settlement for the repairs under the buildings 
claim.
in respect of the above, Millennium should  add simple interest* at the rate of 8% per 
year from the date of the claim to the date of payment.
reconsider the outstanding parts of Miss Ms claim  for the costs  of replacing/repairing 
the damaged  or destroyed contents.
pay any outstanding  alternative accommodation costs  on production of invoices from 
Miss M, and consider payment of those costs during the repairs. It should add simple 
interest* at 8% per year from the date Miss M paid those  costs  to the date of 
payment.
pay any heating and/or drying costs on production of bills/invoices from Miss M and 
consider payment of any further such costs.  It should add simple interest* at 8% per 
year from the date Miss M paid those costs  to the date of payment.
pay Miss M £534 in respect of her surveyors fee and add simple  interest*  at 8% per 
year from the date Miss M paid that fee to the date of payment.
pay Miss M £550 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*If Millennium  Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Miss M how much its taken  off. It should also give 
Miss M a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1236922