K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are complaining about  Barclays Bank Plc because they say they were  mis-
sold a life insurance policy when they arranged a mortgage. In particular, they say they were 
told they had to take the policy to get the loan.
background
Mr and Mrs B arranged  a new repayment mortgage in 1989. At the same time, they took a 
decreasing term life insurance policy with General Accident (now  Aviva). They kept the 
policy until they cancelled  it in 1997.
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about  the sale of their policy. But it did 
accept it hadnt  handled their complaint as well as it should  have.  It apologised and offered 
£200 compensation for their trouble  and upset.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be partly upheld. He didnt feel there was 
enough evidence  to conclude the policy was mis-sold. But he did think  Barclays should  pay 
a higher amount of compensation in recognition  of the way the complaint was handled  and 
suggested this was increased to £350.  
Barclays accepted  the adjudicators assessment. Mr and Mrs B didnt. In support of their 
complaint, theyve made the following key points:
They werent given  any option but to take the policy. They were told it was a 
condition of the mortgage they were applying for and that they wouldnt get the loan 
without it.
Their circumstances  and work  benefits  meant  they didnt need the cover.  And there 
was no need for Barclays to require additional security for the loan.
They werent told they could take the cover  with another insurer.
Barclays received a substantial commission for selling the policy  and they werent 
told about that.
When payments started  to be taken for their mortgage and policy, these were higher  
than theyd previously  been told to expect.  They say they complained about this at 
the time but to no avail.
Barclays took a long time to actually address their complaint and provided  a poor 
service. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons.
Mr and Mrs B have  made detailed submissions  in support of their complaint and Ive read 
and considered everything  theyve sent us carefully.  But I havent necessarily tried to 
Ref: DRN10536502address every point  theyve raised in this decision. Ive instead  concentrated on the issues  I 
think are central to the outcome  of their complaint.
time limits
We cant consider all aspects of every complaint we receive.  The rules I must  follow  are set 
out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook.  The rules say that, without the consent  of the business involved, we 
cant consider a complaint that is brought  to us outside set time limits. DISP rule 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service   . . . more than: 
a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
b)three years  from the date on which  the complainant became aware  (or ought  
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  other  
record of the complaint  having been received;
One issue of complaint  raised by Mr and Mrs B is that the amount they ended  up paying  
each month  for their mortgage  and policy  was more than they had been told to expect. In my 
view, this is something they should have realised  once  their monthly payments started  to be 
taken and Mr and Mrs B dont seem to dispute that. This would mean  they had six years 
from the mortgage starting  in 1989  to complain.
When the adjudicator  raised the issue of time limits,  Mr and Mrs B said they did complain at 
the time.  But as Ive outlined above, to conclude an earlier complaint was made, the rules 
require there  to be some evidence of that complaint being received by the business involved. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs B have told us they have no proof of an earlier complaint. 
Ive seen no suggestion of exceptional  circumstances  that would actually have prevented Mr 
and Mrs B from complaining about  this sooner. So taking everything  into account and 
applying the rules as Im required  to, I think I can only reasonably  conclude  its now too late 
for them to complain about the fact their payments were more than they expected and that I 
cant consider this issue.
the policy sale
Turning to the other aspects of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, which I dont think  are affected by 
the time limits in the rules,  I have taken account of what they say took place. But on their 
own and without additional supporting evidence, I dont think their comments are enough  for 
me to say the policy was mis-sold.
Before going any further, I note Mr and Mrs B have drawn comparisons between  their life 
insurance policy, which was designed  to pay a lump sum if either of them died, and payment 
protection insurance (PPI) designed  to cover  loan repayments if the policyholder is unable to 
work. But I think its important to emphasise  there  are significant differences  between  these 
types of cover and that many of the same concerns dont apply here.  For example, the cost 
of Mr and Mrs Bs policy wasnt  added to their loan,  meaning they didnt end up paying 
Ref: DRN10536503interest on the premiums.  Also their employment status didnt affect their ability  to claim on 
their policy.
Barclays says it was a condition of the mortgage  it offered  Mr and Mrs B in 1989 that they 
have sufficient life cover in place to repay  it if either of them  died. While this was no doubt 
primarily intended to provide  additional security for the bank, it could also have  given Mr and 
Mrs B the peace of mind of knowing their family  could effectively inherit the property without  
any debt attached. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B dont think  they needed the policy,  but this was 
a legitimate decision Barclays was entitled  to take. It was also common  practice among 
other lenders at the time.  While it may no longer be common practice for lenders to require 
life cover to be in place,  it hasnt been outlawed and it doesnt  mean  it was wrong  at the time 
or that current standards should be applied retrospectively.
If Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with being required to take a life insurance policy to cover 
their mortgage, they had the option to approach other lenders to see if they could  obtain  a 
loan without this condition. They also had the opportunity to approach other insurers  to 
arrange life cover. I note they say they werent  made  aware of this, but the Barclays 
advisers could only arrange cover  with the insurer it was affiliated with and couldnt  
recommend or comment on the merits of policies offered  by other  insurers.
The above  notwithstanding, Mr and Mrs B received  advice  and the adviser had a 
responsibility to make  sure any policy recommend was suitable for their needs. Given the 
policy was a requirement of the loan, this responsibility would extend to making  sure the type 
of policy, the amount  of cover and the term matched the mortgage they were taking. By 
recommending a decreasing policy with an amount and term that matched their mortgage, 
Im satisfied the adviser fulfilled his responsibilities to give suitable advice.
Mr and Mrs B have  raised concerns about  the amount of commission  Barclays received  and 
I can see this was a significant  chunk of their monthly premium during the first four years  at 
least. After this, ongoing payments to Barclays reduced to a very low level.  I understand why 
Mr and Mrs B might  not be happy about  that, but how much  commission is paid is really a 
matter between the insurer and the seller. While Mr and Mrs B might  not have  known how 
much this was or how it was calculated, they did know how much they were paying  for their 
policy and what cover it was providing. The commission was reflected in their monthly 
premium and they had the option to approach  other insurers if they werent  happy  with the 
amount they were  paying.
The way the commission  was structured on Mr and Mrs Bs policy is fairly typical of what  
happened at the time and didnt breach any rules or regulations. Since 1989, rules have 
been introduced  covering the disclosure of commission  received  by selling advisers. But I 
cant reasonably  apply those rules  retrospectively.  And even if I tried to, it wouldnt change 
the fact that Barclays  made a legitimate decision to require them  to have cover.
service and complaint  handling
Theres no dispute Barclays didnt  get to grips  with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for some time 
after it was received and this meant they had to correspond and chase far more  than they 
should have done. It  also significantly delayed Barclays response.
From reading their correspondence, I can see Barclays poor service and complaint handling 
caused Mr and Mrs B some unnecessary trouble and upset and I do think theyre due 
compensation for this. The impact of Barclays failings, and therefore the amount to award, is 
Ref: DRN10536504difficult to assess. But on balance, I think the moderate amount of £350 suggested by the 
adjudicator is fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B dont think the compensation is adequate. But its important to 
understand that its not intended to reflect any wrong-doing beyond  the poor handling of their 
complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, Im not finding in their favour  on the main issues  
theyve raised. Its also not intended  to reflect the normal costs, including postage  and 
telephone calls, associated with pursuing  the complaint.  
finally
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs B and I understand 
why they may now question the need for their policy.  But for the reasons Ive explained, and 
after considering the aspects of their complaint Im able to look at, I dont think  theres 
sufficient grounds for me to conclude  it was mis-sold. Barclays service  and complaint 
handling certainly hasnt been  up to the standard  Mr and Mrs B were entitled  to expect and 
Im awarding what I think is an appropriate  amount to compensate  them for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs B accept  my decision,  Barclays  Bank Plc must pay them compensation 
totalling £350. This amount includes any money they may have already received following its 
offer in January 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1053650