K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that he should be allowed to reject a car hes financed through FirstRand  
Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo,  as it was faulty at the point of supply.
background
In July 2017 Mr W took receipt  of a used car. He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with Motonovo. The car was first registered in 2006 and had already completed 
75,000 miles.
Only a week later Mr W returned the car to the dealership as hed experienced a lack of 
power. He says that they attended  to problems with the turbo and timing belt and the car 
was then okay for a few months until the problem returned in November 2017.
The dealership said the turbo had failed and replaced the engine but in June 2018 Mr Ws 
car broke down again. There were problems with the engine, turbo, clutch  and with a severe 
fuel leak. At this point the car had completed  about  11,000 miles since  it had been in Mr Ws 
possession. 
Mr W arranged  an independent inspection of the vehicle. The independent  engineer said:
there was damage to the coil wiring caused by incorrect removal.  He considered this 
was consistent  with work being  completed  to resolve the performance issue
the engine  replacement had not been  carried out correctly. The engine was 
incorrectly mounted
the fan had been  broken  probably  because  the front of the car hadnt  been 
dismantled, as it should have been when fitting  the engine 
the wrong engine  had been fitted.  The one in Mr Ws car was from a lesser model
there were problems with the cam sensor; fuel and manifold pressures
the electronic  control unit may have been  removed and replaced and all engine  
settings may therefore be incorrect
it was likely that the cylinder  head was cracked
it was likely that there had been piston failure
there were serious oil leaks
He said that the engine  would need to be completely stripped down and a host of issues 
would need to be checked and resolved.  For these  reasons the independent engineer  
suggested a repair would  be too expensive  and the vehicle was worth only salvage value. 
He said it was clear the engine  had been installed very badly and damage had been 
caused during  installation  and he also said the engine that had been installed was not fit for 
purpose. 
Motonovo were  unable  to clarify  that the dealership  had ever completed repairs to the car as 
they had subsequently  ceased business.  They said as there  was no proof of repair and as it 
had been so long since the point of supply, they could not be held responsible  for the 
problems Mr W had experienced.
So Mr W left the car outside  the dealership who had supplied  the car. He cancelled the cars 
insurance and tax and as a result the car was seized  and wont  be released until a fee is 
paid.
Ref: DRN12986742Mr W referred his complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at the evidence. 
She agreed  with Mr W. She was persuaded that it was most likely a repair had been 
completed to Mr Ws car and she thought it was clear, from the engineers report, that any 
repair that had been completed  when Mr W returned the car had been completed incorrectly. 
She thought  Mr W should therefore be allowed to reject the car and that Motonovo should  
return all the instalments hed made towards it since the June 2018 breakdown. She also 
thought Motonovo should return a further monthly  instalment to compensate Mr W for loss of 
use and also refund the cost of the engineers  reports Mr W had commissioned. She also 
considered that a payment of £100  for distress and inconvenience would be appropriate.
The investigator went on to consider  who should pay the costs  to release the impounded 
vehicle. She thought the contract  was breached before Mr W left the car outside the 
dealership as she noted the car hadnt been sufficiently durable or of satisfactory quality.  So 
she thought it was reasonable to suggest Motonovo pay the costs to release the car.
Motonovo agreed with the investigators suggested settlement but didnt  agree  with her view 
about storage  costs.  So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask Mr W to pay the costs  associated with 
impounding, storing and releasing the vehicle and Ill explain my thoughts on this.
Ive also considered the rejection of the vehicle. Ive read the file in detail and I agree with 
the view the investigator  has formed and the redress shes  suggested.  I note that Motonovo 
also agree  with this so Ill make no further  comment of the issue except for where its 
necessary to support my findings on who should pay the costs  associated with releasing  the 
car from the storage.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Motonovo is 
responsible and as thats the agreed  position here I think the associated costs  should also 
be paid by Motonovo.
Mr W complained  in June  and I can see that in July Motonovo rejected his complaint. Their  
further response in September was limited, and unchanged, despite Mr W having  provided 
an independent engineers report that was very supportive of his position.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration as hed been paying for a car that couldnt be driven  and 
was clearly faulty at the point of sale. For several months Motonovo  do not seem  to have 
considered the issue in satisfactory depth and theyd not responded. Had they considered 
Ref: DRN12986743the evidence properly I think they would  have been  likely to have realised Mr W had a valid 
claim which needed to be supported.  They  would  have been likely  to act earlier; Mr W 
wouldnt have left his car at the dealers and the car wouldnt have been impounded.
So I think the costs  involved with impounding, storing and releasing the car were  avoidable.  
It was most likely that an unsuccessful repair had been carried out on the car and that the 
car was therefore faulty at the point of supply. Motonovo should  have  allowed Mr W to reject 
it and terminate his contract at a point before the car was seized. So I think the fairest 
resolution is for Motonovo  to pay those costs.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell FirstRand Bank  Limited to:
allow Mr W to reject his car and terminate his finance agreement  with nothing  further  
to pay
refund  Mr Ws deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the point of 
payment to the point of settlement
refund  any instalments made  by Mr W to his agreement since June 2018 and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the point of payment to the point  of settlement
refund  the equivalent of one monthly  instalment to compensate Mr W for his loss of 
use of the vehicle
refund  the cost of the engineers reports on provision of the invoices from Mr W
pay Mr W £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes been put 
to
cover  any costs  associated with impounding, storing and releasing the vehicle
remove any adverse records they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1298674