K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Saga Services Limiteds  actions in connection with his motor  
insurance policy.
background
Mr L bought a motor  insurance policy from Saga. Shortly before it was due to renew Mr L 
needed to replace his car. He asked Saga for quotes for two cars he was looking at. He said 
that Saga quoted him around £700 to insure either  of the cars for a year.  But after he bought 
one of the cars the actual  price Saga charged  was double its original quote.
Mr L brought his complaint about that to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
6 August 2020.  For ease I've copied  my provisional  findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  I wont  uphold it. 
Mr Ls policy was due to renew in March 2018. But in February the clutch  went  on his 
existing car and he was looking for a new car to replace it. He asked Saga how much  it 
would cost to insure two cars. He was considering  buying  one of them.  Mr L said that Saga 
quoted him around £700 a year to insure each of them. But after hed bought  one of the cars 
the premium it offered  him was double the original  quote. 
Ive listened to the recordings of all the conversations  Saga had with Mr L around the time he 
was looking to replace his car. Having done  so I can see that Saga gave Mr L a quote to 
renew his policy  for £673. But that was to insure Mr Ls existing car. It wasn't for a change of 
car on his policy.
Ive heard the conversations when  Mr L asked for quotes for the two cars he was 
considering buying. The first of Sagas advisers  said she wouldn't  be able to quote Mr L a 
premium for the new cars at renewal. But she said that she could tell him what it would cost 
to add a new car for the remaining time before his policy  was due to renew. And she said it 
would only be a rough  indication. But while running through  the details Mr L told the adviser 
that he might  need to park his car at a friends  house for about 50% of the time. The adviser  
couldn't complete the quote herself so she put Mr L through to a second adviser in Sagas 
underwriting team.
The second  adviser took details of Mr Ls friends address and said shed get back to Mr L 
with a quote for the change in parking  arrangements. She then provided quotes for the two 
cars Mr L was thinking about buying.  She said that these were  based on Mr Ls home 
address only and that the quote might not be accurate. She said that for the first car - which 
was the car that Mr L eventually bought  it would be an additional premium  of £38.83  to 
cover it from 28 February 2018 up until the policy was due to renew  on 24 March  2018. She 
told Mr L that hed also have to pay a £25 admin  fee. She quoted  Mr L an additional 
premium of £16.27  + £25 admin  fee to cover  the other car on his policy until it renewed.
After Mr L bought his new car he phoned  Saga to change the car on the policy. Saga 
charged him an additional premium of £50.23 - inclusive of the £25 admin  fee - to add the 
car to his policy from 7 March until his policy was due to renew on 24 March 2018.  And Saga 
told him that his renewal  premium would be around  £1,441 for the year from 24 March. That 
Ref: DRN14118952figure came down to around £1,320 after Mr L said that he would no longer park his car at 
his friends house.  
Its clear from his complaint that Mr L believed that Saga had quoted  a lower premium before 
hed bought the car and then doubled that after hed bought it. But I think hes mistaken. As 
I've said above  I've listened to the calls and in none of those did Saga quote Mr L a premium  
of around £700  for the new car for the full year. In fact it told him that it couldn't tell him what 
the renewal price would  be until hed changed  the car. And it didn't ever give him a quote to 
cover the new cars for a full year. It only ever quoted him what  the additional costs would be 
to add the cars to his policy for the remainder  of the policys term. 
I've clearly  heard that Saga quoted Mr L an additional premium of £38.83 to cover  his new 
car from 28 February up to and including 23 March 2018, which  is 24 days. By my 
calculations that equates  to an extra premium for the year of [(38.83  24) x 365] £590.53. 
That was on top of the £461.72 hed already paid for his policy for his old car. So that would  
have meant  an annual premium of around  £1,052. So Im satisfied that Saga didn't tell Mr L 
that it would  charge him around £700  to insure  this car for the year.  
That said Saga also quoted Mr L an additional  premium of £16.27 to insure a different car - 
which he decided not to buy - for the same  period, 28 February  to 23 March  2018. And that 
equates to an extra premium for the year of £247.44. So when added  to the £461.72 hed 
already paid for his old car that produces an annual figure of £709.16. So it appears  that 
Mr L might  have mixed up the two quotes.  Saga did, in a roundabout fashion, quote  Mr L 
around £700 a year for one of the cars, although  it didn't  actually say what  the yearly amount 
was and didn't  say it was from renewal. But that might explain why Mr L thought Saga had 
quoted around  £700  a year, if hed worked  that out himself. However, the quote for the other 
car, which Mr L actually bought was significantly more than that. 
After Mr L swapped the cars on the policy Saga charged Mr L £50.23  - inclusive of the £25 
admin fee - to cover  the new car from 7 March 2018  until his renewal. By my calculations  
that equates to a premium of £1,067 for the full year.  And by that time Mr L had added  the 
temporary parking  arrangements  at his friends address which  had caused  his premium to 
increase slightly. So I'm not surprised that the figure doesn't exactly  match  the earlier quote 
Saga had given  him. And Saga had told him that was an estimate only so I don't think  that's 
unfair.
Mr L is clearly  unhappy  with a number of aspects of Sagas  service  but having listened to the 
calls I don't think any of its advisers  were  in any way rude to him. Its apparent that on 
occasions Saga couldn't always  answer Mr Ls questions, particularly where  that related to 
justifying the premium. But it might help if I explain  that Saga  is an insurance broker not an 
insurer. That means it arranges and administers policies but it doesnt  actually provide the 
cover. Thats  done  by the insurers of the specific policies  Saga sells. And the insurers  are 
separate businesses  to Saga. Thats the case even where the insurers  might be part of the 
same business group.  So Saga doesn't set the base  premium itself, it will be the particular 
underwriter concerned that will decide  on that.
That said I can see that there were a number of reasons that caused  Mr Ls premium to rise 
significantly when it was due for renewal. The key increase  was because of the new car. As 
I've shown above, even for the previous years policy, the new car caused Mr Ls premium  to 
increase by around 114%. But there were other factors  from renewal  that would also have  
caused the premium  to increase further.  Those include a claim against Mr Ls policy  in the 
policy year ending in March 2018,  which would  have affected Mr Ls premium at renewal  but 
Ref: DRN14118953wouldn't have  affected it mid-term. Im aware that Mr L paid to protect his no claims discount 
(NCD) but a protected NCD only protects  the discount itself,  it won't  prevent  the insurers  
assessment of risk increasing, and with it the premiums. Similarly Saga told Mr L that the 
penalty points  for speeding added to his licence  in that policy year were also a factor. And I 
think that's likely  to be the case as all insurers  I'm aware  of will think  that a driver with recent  
penalty points  on their license is likely to be a higher risk than a driver  without  those points. 
So I don't find it unreasonable that Saga referred to those penalty  points, even  if it wasn't 
Saga that set the base  premium itself.
For completeness, Mr L showed us that Saga sent him quotes to cover his car for 2019 for a 
premium of £619, which was less than half the amount  it quoted him for the previous year. 
So, Mr L thinks that Saga must have made a mistake with the previous  years quote. I 
haven't looked into how Saga arrived at the 2019  quote. But insurers regularly review how 
they consider  risk and that can cause  premiums to go up and down, sometimes  fairly 
dramatically. Also, as Mr L didn't renew  with Saga in 2018  and took a policy  with a different 
insurer, by 2019  its likely  that Saga would have offered Mr L discounts as a new customer 
that wouldnt be available to its existing customers.  And he would have owned his car for a 
full year by then, which is also likely to reduce the risk. But, in any event,  I don't  think the fact 
that Saga could  offer Mr L a considerably lower quote in 2019 means that it made a mistake 
with his premium in 2018.
developments
Mr L said that the crux of his complaint may have become confused. He said that he felt that 
Saga had increased his premium from around £700  to £1,400  because  of the change of 
parking arrangements  at a friend's address. But when he told Saga hed gone back  to 
parking at his own address Saga didn't return the premiums to the level they were at before. 
So, he thinks  Saga  charged him for something   parking at a friends  address  that he 
wasn't doing. Saga didn't  have any further  comments. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I appreciate its been some considerable time since Mr L initially complained to Saga but I 
think hes mistaken about the sequence  of events. As I've said I've listened to Mr Ls calls 
with Saga. And in none of those did Saga quote Mr L a premium  of £700 for his new car 
regardless of whether temporary parking  arrangements applied or not. And when it did 
provide quotes  it told him that those  quotes were  for his current  address. So, the quotes 
didn't factor in any change of parking arrangements. Indeed, it told Mr L it would take up to 
three days to let him know how much the change of parking arrangements would affect  his 
premium by. 
Also, as I said in my provisional decision, after Mr L told Saga he wouldn't be parking at his 
friends address  Saga did reduce his premium.  It came down from £1,441 to £1,320. So, it's 
not the case that the change of parking  arrangements caused his premium to rise as 
dramatically as it did or that Saga  didn't adjust the premium once those temporary  parking 
arrangements no longer  applied. It follows that I think Saga handled the matter reasonably.
Ref: DRN14118954my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1411895