K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr D holds  with Nationwide Building  Society.  There are 
three basic elements  to the complaint; that Nationwide:
paid money (which was then debited to the mortgage account) to settle a financial 
dispute between  Mr D and his freeholder; 
addressed a letter intended  for him to the property address, where  it was received and 
read by his tenant; and
refused to allow him to correspond directly with Mr T, the signatory  to one of the letters  
Nationwide sent him
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
Mr Ds mortgage was originally with another lender, which merged  with Nationwide. Its 
secured by a property  that Mr D rents out. The property is leasehold, and during  2017, Mr D 
was in dispute with the freeholder over unpaid ground rent and other charges. 
The dispute  went  to court, and the court issued judgement in the freeholders favour. 
Nationwide was notified, and concerned about the risk of the lease (and by extension, its 
security for the debt) Nationwide paid the outstanding sums, debited  them  to the mortgage  
account and notified Mr D of a revised  monthly payment. 
During this period, he and Nationwide had an extended exchange of letters, and one of 
Nationwides letters was mistakenly sent to the mortgaged property rather than to Mr D at his 
own address. Mr D says the letter was opened and read by the tenant, and he was worried 
this might cause his tenant to leave.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and issued his view of it in December 2018.  His 
conclusions, in summary, were:
the mortgage conditions allowed Nationwide to pay the freeholders charges;
Nationwide had written to the wrong  address, but as Mr D had confirmed that, thus far, 
hed suffered no loss as a result, this was more a matter  for the Information 
Commissioners Office; and
It was normal industry  practice  for letters written by departmental staff to bear the 
signature of a particular individual even  though  that individual  didnt deal directly with 
consumers.
Mr D wasnt happy and asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. He also 
complained that only 10% of his complaint had actually been dealt with.
Ref: DRN14522642my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. In one of his communications  with Nationwide,  Mr D 
refers to us as the regulator. Were not the regulator  of financial businesses, and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  We deal with individual disputes between  businesses and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Mr D has raised  additional  concerns about how the adjudicator dealt with his complaint,  and 
I understand that there has since been  an exchange of correspondence  with the relevant 
manager, and Mr D has been advised that if he wants  to pursue his service  complaint, he 
can do so by contacting the Independent  Assessor.  Thats entirely separate  from what  Im 
doing here. My focus is on the subject-matter of the underlying complaint against 
Nationwide.
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference or 
direction from anyone else. But in doing so, we work within the rules  of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round.
This case is simpler  than its been made to look in Mr Ds rather legalistic submissions.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds mortgage. Having done so, Im satisfied 
these allow  Nationwide  to pay ground rent and, if relevant,  insurance,  administrative charges 
and legal costs  (hereon described  as other items). But this doesnt necessarily mean  its 
automatically fair for a lender to do so. It depends on the individual  circumstances. 
We generally take the view that the issue should first have been to court or to a relevant 
tribunal where  its been found  that the disputed  sums are owed. That had happened in this 
case, and in those circumstances, I dont  think it was unreasonable or unfair for Nationwide  
to pay the ground  rent and other items. 
On the evidence Ive seen  from both sides, Im not persuaded Nationwide has paid any 
amount that it wasnt reasonably entitled to pay in order to safeguard its security.  Mr D might 
not think there was any risk of the lease being forfeit if the debt wasnt  settled,  but 
Nationwide was entitled to think otherwise. 
Theres no disputing that Nationwide  sent a letter  to the mortgaged  property address by 
mistake. It shouldnt have  happened,  and thats common  ground.  But we dont just award 
compensation because someone  made  a mistake; well consider awarding  compensation if 
that mistake has caused loss or detriment. 
I appreciate Mr D was (and possibly  still is) worried that reading  the contents  of the letter  
might cause his tenant to decide to move  out. But unless and until that happens, theres no 
basis for us to consider whether Nationwides mistake in sending the letter  caused  it. Put 
simply, we dont award compensation for something  that could have happened but didnt.
Ref: DRN14522643As for Nationwide  not allowing Mr D direct access to a specific individual,  thats  down to how 
Nationwide chooses  to handle complaints. As I said earlier,  I have no regulatory power, and 
its not open to me to tell Nationwide  how it should  design and implement its communication 
channels. Mr D may have been  annoyed at not being  allowed to correspond directly  with 
Mr T, but its not maladministration  or unfair  treatment.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from his submissions the intensity with which Mr D has brought the 
complaint. He sees error or wrong-doing  in almost everything Nationwide has done (or not 
done). 
Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. But when I disregard the 
noise around the edges  of this complaint, Im satisfied  that my findings cover  the crux of the 
complaint in its entirety.
Mr D doesnt have  to accept my final decision on his complaint. If he doesnt, it wont  be 
binding on either  party and subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court  might  
impose, his right to take legal action against  Nationwide wont have  been  prejudiced  by our 
consideration of his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1452264