K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that a used car she got with a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) provided by 
The Car Finance  Company (2007) Limited  (CFC) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
Miss P acquired this car in February 2016. It broke  down in the summer of 2018  and had to 
be recovered to a local garage. The recovery service suspected the water  pump  had failed 
but the garage noticed there had been a manufacturers recall  relating to part of the cars 
engine and suggested Miss P should  contact  a main dealer. 
Miss P took the car to a main  dealership  that Ill call B. They contacted the manufacturer  on 
her behalf  and, after some discussion,  the manufacturer agreed to contribute to 55% of the 
cost of repairs. Miss P thinks the car had an inherent defect when it was supplied  so she got 
in touch with CFC and asked it to take the car back  and pay compensation. 
CFC doesnt  accept the car had a fault when it was supplied  in view of the length of time 
Miss P had the car and the mileage she covered. It offered to reconsider if Miss P supplied  
evidence to show faults were present or developing at the outset but said it was unable  to 
assist her otherwise.   
Unhappy with this response Miss P brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She was satisfied initially  that the engine failure was 
probably the result of a fault that was present at the point of supply. She recommended CFC 
should pay to have this fixed or take the car back so CFC arranged  for an independent  
expert to inspect the car. 
The expert concluded that the breakdown was caused by the water pump which  had 
deteriorated over time and failed causing  the engine to overheat - not the faulty  coolant  hose  
which was the part subject to the manufacturers  recall. As Miss P was able to drive 17,800 
miles or so before the breakdown, the expert  did not think  this problem with the water pump 
was likely to have been present or developing at the point of supply.  
This new evidence  was consistent with the report from the breakdown service. Our 
investigator reconsidered and issued a second  view to say she thought  it likely  the engine  
failure was due to wear  and tear - not an inherent  defect. She told Miss P that we would  
need further evidence to show  that the car had a manufacturing fault in order  to say CFC 
should have to do anything else. 
Miss P subsequently supplied emails that suggested  B had confirmed it found  a 
manufacturing fault was present. Our investigator  contacted B about that and it provided 
copies of original  emails which didnt say this. B told us it could not confirm  that the engine  
had failed as a result of a manufacturing  issue - it considered improper servicing might have 
played a part. 
Our investigator allowed Miss P some more  time to obtain additional information if she 
wanted to do so. Miss P didnt supply anything  else and our investigator  doesnt recommend 
the complaint  should be upheld.  
Miss P doesnt think this outcome  is fair. She says if the water  pump  had failed this would 
have been a general repair and her responsibility but a third party garage told her the recall 
Ref: DRN12300812defect was the cause.  Shes unable to supply  any information from that garage as they wont 
put this in writing.
Miss P thinks the recovery service  only mentioned the water pump in the breakdown report 
because this was the most obvious  thing  and that should not be relied upon as the recovery  
agents are not qualified  engineers. The manufacturer has now agreed  to cover 100% of 
repair costs and Miss P doesnt think it would have done that if there wasnt a manufacturing 
fault. She asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Miss P but I have 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Miss P brings her complaint about  this car to our service because it was supplied by CFC 
under a HPA.  And CFC was obliged under legislation  to ensure that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when Miss P got it. Miss P says the car was of unsatisfactory  quality 
because it broke down in 2018  and she has since found out the manufacturer had recalled 
one of the parts in this sort of engine  because it was faulty. 
did this car breakdown due to a defective  part that the manufacturer  recalled?
There is no dispute that the cars manufacturer has acknowledged there is an issue  with a 
coolant hose in certain engines, like the one in Miss Ps car. But, I am not persuaded that 
means every breakdown  involving  this sort of engine must be the result  of the known defect 
in the coolant hose.
I have read the report of the independent  expert  who inspected this car. I can see he was 
told that it was subject to a manufacturers  recall and why - and he was instructed to inspect 
the car and comment specifically on whether  the recall issue was likely to have caused the 
engine failure.  The expert concluded that it is not. He says the water pump in this car failed. 
He accepts it would need to be removed  to determine that went wrong exactly but he thinks 
the failure was probably due to deterioration/wear  and tear over time. 
I am satisfied that the expert seems to have relevant experience  and expertise. I find his 
report to be detailed and thorough and I think it is reasonable to attach some weight to the 
experts opinion  in this situation. 
I have also seen some correspondence from B, the dealership  where the engine was 
repaired. Im satisfied it would have had to access and remove  any faulty parts as part of 
those repairs. B says it found that the engine had overheated - which  is consistent  with the 
experts view. B could  not say that this was caused by a manufacturing defect  - even though 
Miss P asked it to do so specifically. B told us that it considered  lack of proper servicing, 
amongst other things,  may have  led to the breakdown. 
Our investigator asked  Miss P for evidence that the car was serviced regularly while  she had 
it. Miss P was unable  to provide  this as she had the car serviced by a family member. I can 
Ref: DRN12300813see why Miss P might choose to have  her car serviced in this way but I am afraid this means 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that this car was serviced properly. 
I realise this is probably really frustrating for Miss P. I accept this type of engine has been 
subject to a manufacturers recall  for a known issue that might cause similar problems to the 
ones she experienced. And I can see that the manufacturer offering to pay for repairs would 
- in the usual  course of events - suggest it accepts  some responsibility for the engine  failure.  
In the absence of evidence  to the contrary, I might well have  been  inclined to uphold  this 
complaint - in the way our investigator recommended at first.
But, I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to ignore the experts findings for the reasons 
Ive explained  above. I also find it reasonable to take the observations of the recovery  agent  
and B into account  - given they both saw the car after it broke down. I think B, in particular, 
was probably best placed to see what had gone wrong as it carried out the repairs.  
Ive considered what Miss P says about the local garage that saw the car when it was 
recovered initially who told her about  the manufacturers recall.  I have seen  an email from 
that garage (dated 13/9/18) which says they advised  her to take the car to a main  dealer 
before they looked at it. So, its difficult to see how any conclusions  this garage might  have 
reached about the cause of the engine failure  should reasonably  be preferred over those of 
the other parties  Ive mentioned above  - given they actually inspected the car.  
On balance overall, I am satisfied that the cause of the engine failure here is not likely to 
have been the defective coolant hose which was subject to the manufacturers recall.  I think  
it is more likely than not this car broke  down due to the failure of a water pump. So Ive given 
some thought as to whether this means the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point it 
was supplied to Miss P. 
satisfactory quality
The level of quality  thats to be considered satisfactory will vary according to individual 
circumstances. In the case of a used car like this its generally considered reasonable to take 
the age, cost and mileage  at the point  of supply into account. 
I can see this car was four years old with 52,000  miles on the clock when Miss P got it and 
cost £8,200. As such I think a reasonable person would  accept  it wasnt going to be of the 
same standard as a new vehicle - as some parts would be worn  and probably need to be 
replaced over time which would have been  reflected in the lower price paid. 
I am satisfied that Miss P was able to drive this car for over two years  and more  than 17,000  
miles before it broke down. The expert  says its not unusual for a water pump to fail around 
the 70,000 or so miles the car had covered  by that stage. And I dont think  Miss P would 
have been able to drive  as far as she did if the water pump  had been  faulty  when she got the 
car. 
On balance, from the evidence I have seen,  I think its more  likely than not this car broke 
down because the water  pump failed as a result of general wear and tear - not a fault that 
was present when  Miss P got the car. I am not persuaded that I can fairly find the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied in these circumstances. And I am unable to 
reasonably require CFC to take the car back - or do anything further - in response to this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN12300814I appreciate this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss P. But shes  not 
obliged to accept  what Ive said - in which  case,  it remains open to her to pursue the matter  
by other  means  should she wish to do so.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1230081