K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Aviva  Insurance Limited has turned down her claim under her contents  
insurance policy. 
Although this is a joint policy held with Mr B, Ive mainly referred to Mrs B in my decision as 
she made the claim under the policy.
background
Mrs B was gifted a ring by Mr B but unfortunately she lost it. Mrs B made a claim under their 
policy.
Aviva turned down  the claim saying its standard policy didnt provide cover for items  being 
lost. It said this may have  been covered had Mr and Mrs B chosen separately to cover 
personal belongings but they did not do so. 
Mrs B didnt accept this, she said the policy schedule  showed that valuables were covered  
up to a limit of £2,000. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
while the policy does  provide cover  for valuables,  this only applies where  the loss or damage 
is caused by natural  causes, theft or subsidence.  She confirmed the policy  didnt have 
personal belongings cover and thought Aviva had turned down the claim correctly. 
Mrs B didnt agree and brought the complaint to our service. She emphasised  her belief  the 
policy literature shows her ring should be covered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I wont 
be upholding her complaint for broadly the same  reasons as our investigator. 
Aviva is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the policy and the terms and 
conditions of the policy will define what those things are. So what I need to decide here is 
whether Aviva has acted  within these  terms, and what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances
The relevant  industry  rules also say that insurers should handle  claims  promptly and fairly. 
And, they shouldnt reject  a claim unfairly. Having looked through everything, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for Aviva to turn down  Mrs Bs claim, Ill explain why. 
Its common for insurers to only provide limited cover for loss or damage to personal 
belongings under their standard contents section. Generally, they will cover loss or damage  
to those items, which happens  in the home and, only by certain defined events. Should  
someone wish to cover any loss or damage  to his or her personal belongings which  happens 
anywhere else, usually  this cover is available, but only if an extra  fee is paid. 
Ref: DRN10353202Mrs B has said she feels her policy does provide cover for her ring. This is correct, her ring 
would be classed as a valuable and therefore  potentially covered under the standard 
contents section  of her policy.  But, for the claim to be accepted  by Aviva,  Mrs B wouldve 
needed to show  the loss happened through an event covered by the policy. So, Mrs B 
wouldve needed to show something such as a fire, storm,  earthquake, malicious people or 
vandals or, theft or attempted theft caused the loss. 
Mrs B has said simply that she lost her ring and couldnt find it. While I appreciate  it must  
have been upsetting to lose the ring, unfortunately this isnt a scenario thats covered under 
the standard section of the policy. Mrs B therefore hasnt  showed an insured  event  caused  
the loss of the ring.
Mrs Bs policy didnt  have  the separate addition  of personal belongings cover  which  may 
have potentially covered the loss of her ring as she described. Because of this, and my 
explanation above, I dont  think Aviva  has turned down  Mrs Bs claim unreasonably  and 
therefore I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Aviva  Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1035320