K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the interest and charges that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading  as 
Barclaycard, has applied to his credit  card account.
background
Mr D opened a credit card account  with Barclaycard in July 2010. Within  the last six years 
hes been charged late payment fees,  over limit fees and interest. The account  was 
defaulted in December 2015  because  the minimum payment wasnt  received for seven 
consecutive months from May 2015  and since then no further interest or charges were 
applied to the account until the debt was settled  in August 2017. Mr D complained to 
Barclaycard earlier this year about  the interest and charges that have been applied to his 
account. He wasnt  satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
fees and charges had been charged correctly and in line with the terms and conditions  of 
Mr Ds account. So she concluded  that no refund was due to him.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D opened a credit card account  with Barclaycard in July 2010. He hasnt  said which  
charges or which period hes complaining about  so the investigator  has only considered  the 
interest and charges that have been  applied to his account in the last six years  and Mr D has 
accepted that. I consider that to be the correct  approach as its unlikely that this service 
would have jurisdiction  to consider a complaint in these circumstances about interest and 
charges that were  applied more than six years  ago.
Barclaycard has provided copies of Mr Ds account statements for the last six years  which  
show that hes been charged  late payment fees,  over limit fees and interest. Barclaycard 
says that the account was defaulted in December 2015 because the minimum payment 
wasnt received for seven  consecutive months from May 2015 and since then no further 
interest or charges were  applied to the account until the debt was settled  in August 2017. 
The circumstances in which interest and charges will be applied  to an account are set out in 
Barclaycards terms and conditions. Im not persuaded that Mr D has provided any evidence  
to show that the charges have been  applied incorrectly or otherwise than in accordance with 
those terms and conditions. 
So I consider that Barclaycard has responded correctly to Mr Ds complaint. And I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Barclaycard to refund 
to Mr D any of the interest and charges  that have been applied  to his account   or to take 
any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN14218742Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1421874