K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc is holding him liable  for a cash  machine 
withdrawal that he says he neither made  nor authorised.  
background
Mr M had a Capital One credit card. On the evening  of 5 March  2018 his card was used to 
make a cash machine  withdrawal of £240. He received a text message from Capital One 
seeking confirmation that the withdrawal was valid. He replied early the following morning to 
say that it wasnt. He says that it was when he received that message that he realised hed 
lost his credit card.  
Mr M also indicated that he hadnt been responsible  for two £1 contactless payments made 
on 26 February. That meant that the last time Mr M had used the card was, he said, on 22 
February.  
When Capital One investigated further,  however,  it concluded  that Mr M probably had made 
the withdrawal, or allowed  someone else to do so. It noted that Mr Ms genuine card had 
been used, with the correct PIN. There was no obvious opportunity for someone else to have 
obtained both,  and so Capital One concluded  that Mr M should not have  the payment 
refunded. Mr M didnt know when or where he might have lost his card,  and he didnt know  
how someone else could  have known his PIN; he said he didnt keep it written down 
anywhere, although he later suggested  that someone might have found his original PIN 
notification. 
Mr M referred the matter  to this service, where one of our investigators considered  what  had 
happened. She concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr M had authorised the 
withdrawal, and didnt  therefore think that Capital One should refund it. Mr M didnt  agree  
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Capital Ones records show that the genuine  card was used with the correct  PIN. That is of 
course consistent with what Mr M has said  that his card was missing.  
Mr M doesnt know when or how his card went missing. If, as he said,  the payments  on 26 
February werent made by him, it must  have  been lost or stolen  between  22 and 26 
February. But if someone else had his card and was prepared to use it on 26 February, its 
perhaps surprising  that they didnt try to use it again  until 5 March.  That indicates  that he 
probably did have  the card on 26 February  but has perhaps overlooked two very modest 
contactless payments  made then. Mr M has said that he lives alone and generally keeps his 
credit card in his wallet. He says he didnt know his card was missing until he received the 
text message from Capital  One. 
Mr M hasnt  been able to identify any specific  incident or event when his card might have 
been taken. Hes only said that he sometimes has visitors to his home  and that he has 
suspicions about one individual   although he hasnt  elaborated or explained how that 
individual might have  obtained his card and PIN.        
Ref: DRN14404852The last time Mr Ms card and PIN were used  together  before 5 March was on 22 February. 
Its unlikely that someone observed the PIN then and then took the card, without Mr M 
noticing. Even if they had done that, its unlikely they would have waited a few days  to make 
small contactless payments and nearly two weeks before trying to use the two together. 
Mr M said he thought his PIN notification had been thrown away,  but more  recently  
suggested that may not have been  the case. I note however that the PIN notification was 
sent when the account  was opened in October 2017, several months before the disputed  
withdrawal. I think it unlikely  that it was still readily accessible to someone  who had managed 
to obtain Mr Ms card. 
Card providers shouldnt  hold their customers liable for disputed  withdrawals solely  because  
the genuine card was used with the correct PIN. In this case, however, I think  the fact the 
two were used together is a clear  indication that Mr M was responsible  for the withdrawal. It 
is in my view the most likely explanation for what happened, and I dont therefore believe it 
would be fair to require  Capital  One to make  a refund to Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Capital One (Europe) 
plc to do anything  more to resolve Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
2 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1440485