K820x#14complaint
The partners of C complain about changes Lloyds  Bank PLC made to how it manages their 
business accounts. One of the partners   who Ill refer to as Mrs C  represents the partners 
in bringing this complaint. Mrs C also complains about the increase in Lloyds  arrangement 
fees. She asks that Lloyds provides a personal banker and reduces its fees.
background
C has a business  account with Lloyds  with an overdraft facility.  Mrs C says Lloyds applied an 
overdraft arrangement fee of £700 (less a £50 discount)  in late 2017.  She says this fee has 
increased from £700 to £1,050.
In May 2018  Mrs C received a letter saying that the business account would now be 
managed by a telephone based team. Shes unhappy about this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Lloyds made a commercial decision to provide  support to business  customers  through  a 
business banking  team  contactable by phone. We cant  require  Lloyds to provide a face 
to face service. The change to telephone  bank hadnt resulted in higher fees.
When the overdraft  facility was due for renewal Lloyds asked Mrs C to provide accounts 
for the business.  As the accounts  werent provided, Lloyds  applied  a temporary 
arrangement fee to renew the facility for two months. Once  the accounts are provided, 
Lloyds says it will review the overdraft facility and discuss  the renewal  fee. 
C didnt agree. Mrs C said its not fair that Lloyds  has asked for a higher fee for a lesser 
service. She says the arrangement  fee has increased due to the change  to telephone 
banking as previously  the fee was £700 and its now £1,050. Mrs C said she agreed  the 
temporary arrangement  fee to allow her time to provide accounts: this wouldnt have  been  
required when she had a personal banking manager. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mrs C says she was happy with the service  provided by Lloyds local business manager. 
She says it was efficient  and the team understood the business. Mrs C is concerned that she 
wont receive the same level of service from a telephone based service.  
I appreciate Mrs Cs concerns about  the change. However, Lloyds is entitled to make 
commercial decisions about  how it provides  services. Its decided to provide support  to 
business customers from a telephone  based  team.
Lloyds sent a letter in August 2018  about  renewing the overdraft. This said there would be 
an annual fee of £1,050.  I agree  this is an increase compared to the £700 fee paid in 
previous years and asked  Lloyds about  this. Lloyds says this is the correct fee based on the 
Ref: DRN16638332amount of the facility. It says C previously benefitted  from a lower fee agreed locally. It says 
these discounts  are no longer available. 
I understand that Mrs C and the other partners are unhappy with the changes to Lloyds  
services and the increase in fees. But Lloyds is entitled to make  a commercial decision 
about these matters. I cant reasonably require it to provide a face to face service or discount 
its fees.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the partners of C 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1663833