K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that American  Express Services  Europe Limited is holding him responsible 
for a number of disputed  transactions  which he says he didnt  authorise.  
background
In May 2017  Mr F was out with colleagues  and he went  to a gentlemans club. 
Mr F says he has no recollection of what happened in the club.  Because of this Mr F 
believes he was drugged. 
Mr F says he authorised one transaction  of £130 at the beginning of the night but he didnt 
authorise the five additional transactions which were withdrawn from his account totalling 
£4,645. Mr F says he doesnt think Amex should  hold him responsible for the disputed 
transactions.
Mr F also disputed  another transaction which  was taken from his bank account.  But that 
bank refunded him the amount in dispute. 
Amex looked into Mr Fs complaint about the disputed transactions  and decided  not to 
refund him. They concluded that Mr F authorised the transactions  and so they didnt  refund  
him the amounts in dispute.  Mr F was unhappy with Amexs response and asked our service  
to look at the case. 
Our investigator reviewed  the case and felt Amex  was entitled to hold Mr F responsible for 
the disputed transactions. He said the evidence showed that the transactions were made 
using Mr Fs card and PIN. And the merchant had supplied CCTV stills which show  Mr F with 
the merchant  hand-held machine around the times  of the transactions. The investigator said 
the evidence suggested that Mr F had authorised the transactions.  
Mr F disagreed and asked  to have the case reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes unhappy  
because the timings of the CCTV stills dont match the times of the transactions in dispute. 
Mr F feels Amex is being untruthful because they wont  share  all the CCTV footage with him 
which he feels would show that he was drugged.
Hes also unhappy as hes said the spending  is out of character for him. Because of this, he 
feels Amex shouldve done more to protect him by blocking  the transactions or contacting 
him to confirm they were genuine. He says he doesnt have evidence  to show he was 
drugged because at no point did the police or Amex suggest he should  take a drug test. And 
he feels this is convenient for Amex  as hes missed his opportunity to get evidence to prove  
this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator.  Ill explain why below. 
the terms and conditions and relevant legislation
Ref: DRN15531292Amexs terms and conditions and Section 83 and 84 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
explain the circumstances when a consumer can be held responsible  for a transaction  in 
dispute. In Mr Fs case because the disputed transactions were made using a credit card, 
Amex can hold him responsible if he authorised the transactions or allowed somebody else 
to use the card with his consent.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Fs genuine card and PIN were  used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this say that its not, on its 
own, enough for to enable  Amex to hold him liable. So I also need to think  about whether  the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not Mr F consented to the transactions.  
I think its likely Mr F cant remember what happened at the club. And Mr F is persuaded he 
was drugged on the night. But this alone  isnt enough for me to say that Amex  should refund 
him. I need to decide on balance whether or not Mr F authorised the payments of £4,645 or 
gave somebody his consent to use the card. And from what Ive seen I dont think  its 
unreasonable for Amex to conclude that Mr F authorised the transactions. 
did Mr F consent to the transactions?
The merchant provided Amex with CCTV still images of what happened on the night  in the 
club. Ive looked  at the images and Mr F has been provided with a copy  of them.  The images 
show the merchants  hand-held machine in Mr Fs hand on at least  five occasions 
throughout the evening. This matches up with four of the five transactions  made on his Amex 
card. 
I checked the timings  of the still images compared  to the banks  electronic records which 
show the date and time of the transactions. There  is a time difference  between  the still 
image and the electronic records. But the time difference is within  two to three minutes. I 
dont think it is unusual  for there to be a time difference  between the still image  times  and the 
electronic records. I say this because  they are two different systems which are not 
connected. So, Im persuaded these stills are directly linked to the transactions  in dispute.
Mr F says the images which Amex  have relied on dont show  the full picture.  I understand 
Mr Fs point  of view, and I agree motion  pictures  would provide more  clarity on what  
happened that night. But Im satisfied  this evidence shows what  was happening  when the 
transactions were  being processed. 
One still image shows Mr Fs hand  is on the number buttons of the machine. And in the other 
images Mr F is holding the hand-held machine in one hand. Mr F has suggested that he 
didnt input his PIN on these occasions. Instead he was given the hand-held machine so the 
merchant could defend its actions at a later date.  He is persuaded he was drugged and the 
staff members carried out the transactions on his account without his permission.   
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Fs said. But Im not persuaded  that this is the most 
likely explanation of what happened.  Given the available evidence  I find it more  likely than 
not Mr F input his PIN into the machine on the five occasions to authorise the transactions in 
dispute. I say this because the available evidence shows the hand-held terminal in Mr Fs 
hand and there were  no PIN errors during the transactions. Ive also seen a detailed  
summary from the merchant of all the services that were being  paid for on the five 
occasions. 
Ref: DRN15531293Mr F thinks Amex should have stopped these large  transactions. But ultimately  Amex  is 
obliged to make the transactions  he asks for unless it has good reason not to do so. And 
considering this matter  I dont think they had sufficient reason to stop these transactions.  
The electronic records show  the correct PIN was entered into the hand-held terminal which  
is a security measure which Amex has in place to protect their customers.  And this was 
entered without  error on each occasion. Even  if Amex had acted on the size of the 
transactions made - by contacting Mr F at the time  I think its likely this wouldnt have 
changed anything. I say this as Im satisfied  its more  likely than not Mr F authorised  the 
transactions. 
I do appreciate the difficult  situation  Mr F is in. It must be very frustrating not being able to 
remember what happened  in the club on that night and I can understand why he is 
persuaded that he didnt authorise  the transactions. But my job is to look at the available  
evidence and conclude  what I think on balance most  likely happened.  
I know this outcome will be very disappointing for Mr F but I find there  is sufficient evidence  
to conclude that it is more likely than not Mr F authorised the disputed  transactions.  It follows  
that Amex is entitled  to hold him responsible for them.
final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against American Express Services Europe Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1553129