K820x#14Mrs C complains that her late husband, Mr Cs, level term assurance policy was 
mis-sold to him by Lloyds Bank Plc. 
background
In May 2005, Lloyds  sold Mr C a level term assurance policy, having  recommended  it, with 
an 11 year term.  This was designed  to cover him if he fell terminally  ill, or passed away,  
before the policys expiry  date. 
Mr C later fell ill with cancer. In May 2016, he had surgery to remove  this. But he sadly  
passed away a few months later,  in October 2016. So, Mrs C made a claim on Mr Cs policy 
with the insurer.  And, as they wouldnt pay out, she raised a complaint. 
Unhappy with its response, which  also clarified that the policy expiry date was a month later 
than shown on the policy schedule, Mrs C came to our service. One of our investigators  
looked into her complaint  and said the insurer had acted fairly. 
So Mrs C raised a complaint with Lloyds saying the policy term should have been longer and 
the policy should have included critical illness cover. Mrs C also said they didnt receive any 
paperwork in 2016 warning them the policy was coming to an end. 
In response, Lloyds  said Mr C wanted to provide Mrs C with sufficient  income on his death. 
And that their adviser initially recommended a life and critical illness policy  to him to cover  
this shortfall. But Mr C declined the critical illness element and chose a policy with a lower  
sum assured with a more affordable premium, that was set up for 11 years, until his planned 
retirement age of 65. 
Lloyds also said Mr C signed the paperwork the day he met their adviser. And the policy 
schedule and summary were sent to him shortly after. So it thinks Mr C was aware of what 
cover he had and its term. It also said Mr C chose to keep his policy  after calling his insurer  
years later to ask for details of it. And it added that it isnt usual practice for it to send out a 
letter when a policy expires, as this is clear  from the paperwork and the premiums stopping. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs C brought the complaint to our service, also asking  why Mr C wasnt  
given further advice during his call with the insurer. One of our investigators looked  into it. 
He said Lloyds recommended  a policy lasting  11 years to Mr C, that included critical illness 
benefit, which he decided  to remove due to the cost. And the adviser made it clear this 
meant Mr C wouldnt be covered if he was diagnosed with a critical illness. So he didnt think 
Lloyds had done anything wrong. 
Mrs C doesnt agree. She says the adviser  didnt indicate the policy would only last 11 years. 
And she recalls this well. Mrs C also says she wasnt  aware  of the call her husband later had 
with the insurer.  She says he wouldnt  have  continued with the policy if he had known the 
policy term, he would have sorted something  else out.   
Mrs C also says the policy documents  they were given are unreadable. And that the insurer 
still took payments  from Mr Cs bank account  after the policy  had expired. 
Lloyds added that the policy expiry  date was a month later than shown on the schedule,  as it 
began a little later at its advisers request, shortly after theyd met with Mr and Mrs C.
So the complaints  been passed  to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN15183472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, Im not upholding it 
for largely  the same reasons as the investigator. 
I should clarify that in this decision, Im only considering Mrs Cs complaint against Lloyds 
about the mis-sale  of Mr Cs policy. As Lloyds  recommended the policy to Mr C, it needed  to 
ensure this recommendation was suitable. And that it provided  him with clear,  fair and not 
misleading information about the recommendation and the policy.
The information available from the time shows me that Mr Cs priority was to provide for    
Mrs C in the event of his death, so that she could maintain her standard  of living. The 
adviser completed a fact find with Mr C to understand his circumstances. And, after initially  
recommending a life and critical illness  policy for a term of 11 years,  he revised  this to 
recommend a second policy with the same  term, but for a lower sum assured  and without 
critical illness cover. The adviser  detailed  this in a suitability report.  And Mr C took out the 
second policy. 
While Mrs C feels the policy term should have  been longer, term assurance is normally put 
in place until retirement or, where  there are children, until the youngest  child reaches 18 or 
21 years  of age. Mr Cs policy  covered  him until retirement age. And, for the adviser to have 
discussed cover beyond this with him, they would have needed to consider what  his plans  
and income would be in retirement. But the report clearly says Mr C didnt want to discuss  
retirement planning, as it wasnt  a priority  due to the expense. So, I dont think the adviser 
did anything wrong  by recommending a policy with an 11 year term to Mr C. 
I understand Mrs C says the adviser  didnt tell them the policy  was only for 11 years and Ive 
considered her recollections. But, on balance, I think Mr C was aware of this, as the 
suitability report and policy illustration  clearly reflect it. And, Ive placed more weight on this 
documentation as its from the time of sale. 
Mrs Cs said they werent  warned the policy was coming to an end. But I wouldnt usually 
expect this to happen  when a policy is coming to a natural end in line with the 
documentation, in the way Mr Cs was. 
I appreciate Mrs C thinks the policy should  have  included  critical illness  cover. But the report  
shows me Mr C excluded  critical illness benefit  option due to the cost. And that he did not 
see critical illness cover as a priority, due to your [his] age and the likely expense. As these 
are specific  reasons for excluding the cover, I think they could only have come  from Mr C 
during a discussion with the adviser  about  it. I think its clear from this that Mr C felt he didnt 
need, and wasnt  willing to pay for, critical  illness  cover.  And that this was the main  reason 
the adviser recommended the second policy to him. 
Mr C took out a level term assurance policy though,  where the sum insured stayed the 
same. And, considering  one of Mr Cs main concern with the critical illness cover was the 
expense, Ive thought  about whether he would have instead taken  out a decreasing  term 
assurance policy, including critical illness cover, if Lloyds had discussed it with him. This is 
because the premium can be lower, as the sum assured decreases over time with this type 
of policy. But I can see this would  still have cost significantly more than what  Mr C was 
Ref: DRN15183473willing to pay, so Im not persuaded he would have agreed to buy this or that it would have 
been appropriate for the adviser  to recommend it to him.
In summary,  I think Lloyds adviser   made  a suitable recommendation to Mr C, despite the 
policy he recommended  not including critical illness cover. It still met his aim of providing 
protection for Mrs C if he was to pass away during the policy term, at a cost he felt he could 
afford. 
I can see from the suitability report that the adviser  made Mr C aware  of the significance  of 
excluding critical illness cover, in the way I would expect, as it explains this meant  no benefit 
would be payable on the diagnosis of a critical illness.  Mr C signed  a declaration, saying  he 
had read and understood this report.  He was provided with a policy illustration, which  doesnt  
suggest critical illness cover is included. And the policy  schedule  clearly says critical illness  
benefit doesnt apply. So, I think Mr C was given clear, fair and not misleading  information 
about what his policy covered. 
Mrs Cs said she cant read the policy wording Mr C was given, but I think  it can be made out 
clearly enough.  And he was also given a clear document  detailing  the key facts of the policy. 
In relation to policy expiring a month  later than whats on the policy schedule; while Lloyds is 
unable to explain why its adviser changed  the start date shortly  after meeting with Mr and 
Mrs C, theres  no evidence  Mr C wasnt happy  with the policy  or the new start date. And   
Mrs C hasnt suggested that they raised  any concerns about it shortly  after meeting the 
adviser. 
This might explain what Mrs C has said about payments still being taken from Mr Cs 
account after his policy was meant  to have ended though. But, either  way, this is an issue  for 
her to raise with her insurer,  who accepted the payments. 
Mrs Cs asked why Mr C wasnt given further  advice during the call he made in 2012. But 
this call was with the insurer, so I cant hold Lloyds  responsible for what took place during it. 
my decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1518347