K821x#15Complaint
Miss B complains  that Advance Payments Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus blocked  
her account  and she hasnt been able to access her money. She would like her money back  
and to close the account.
Background
Miss B had a current account with Cashplus.
On 9 May 2018  Cashplus blocked Miss Bs account after she failed security on multiple  
occasions. They sent her a letter  asking  her to provide  Proof of Identity  and Address. The 
block meant Miss B wasnt  able to use her account. So, she wasnt  able to access  any 
money in the account which included her government benefits. Cashplus confirmed the 
account remained blocked.
Cashplus also said that Miss B hadnt made  a complaint to them  or contacted them since the 
account was blocked.
Miss B complained to us through her representative. One of our investigators  looked into 
Miss Bs complaint. He decided he needed more information from Cashplus so he could 
decide whether  Cashplus  had acted  fairly  in blocking Miss Bs account. Cashplus said it 
wouldnt provide  any more information  to the investigator.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint because he couldnt be satisfied Cashplus had treated 
Miss B fairly.  He said Cashplus should  return the funds  in her account to Miss B and pay her 
£200 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused by blocking her account  and 
retaining her funds.
Cashplus didnt fully respond to what the investigator had to say. But they did say that 
Miss B hadnt raised the complaint with them.
As there was no agreement the complaint has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Prior to issuing my provisional decision, I wrote  to Cashplus  and asked it to provide more 
information about why it had blocked Miss Bs account and held onto her funds. And Ive 
taken this information into consideration when reaching my provisional decision.
Account review
A bank  is entitled  to review an account with a customer. But it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account. A bank isnt generally obliged  to give 
an explanation  as to why an account  may be blocked  or why funds are not generally 
accessible.
The investigators view which was issued  on the 11 February 2020 recommended that 
Cashplus refund  Miss B the funds  in the account together  with interest at 8% and pay £200 
Ref: DRN12768032compensation. This was in part based  on the business not having provided us with a file and 
therefore there was no evidence  to show if Cashplus had acted fairly when they blocked the 
account.
Cashplus can block the account in order to meet its regulatory requirements in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
The evidence shows Miss B failed security  on multiple occasions. As a result,  Cashplus 
requested further  proof of Identification and Address. They  are entitled to do this, and I think 
they acted reasonably in doing so.
I have also checked  the term and conditions  of the account and I can see that Cashplus are 
able to block the account in certain circumstances.  I am therefore satisfied that Cashplus 
were entitled  to block the account and didnt act unfairly in doing so. It follows  I wont be 
asking them to do anything else.
Closing balance on the account
Having looked  at the statements of Miss Bs account I can see that the account  was finally 
closed on 13 February 2020, with a closing balance of £2,519.01. These funds have not 
been returned to Miss B. Miss B has said that she would like access to the funds on the 
account. So, I have  considered whose  funds they are.
I appreciate that Cashplus are concerned  about  three payments outlined  below which  were  
paid into Miss Bs account:
23 April 2018 £990.12
24 April 2018 £149.76
27 April 2018 £1,379.89
Cashplus had concerns whether she was entitled  to the money paid into her account.
Cashplus have told us that they received information  from the sending  bank about the 
payments for £1,379.89 and £149.76. They said their customers had been the victims of 
fraud.
I am satisfied that Cashplus have  not been  able to establish that the amount of £990.12 
which credited the account on 23 April 2018 is money that doesnt  belong to Miss B. 
However, I accept that they have genuine  concerns  about the other  two unusual payments 
into the account of £149.76 and £1,379.89.
As it cant be established that this money is Miss Bs, I have applied Claytons rule in order  to 
decide what proportion  of the closing  balance belongs to Miss B.
Claytons Rule is commonly known as the first in first out rule. This says that each 
withdrawal is presumed  to be a return of all or part of the oldest deposit. The result is that 
the oldest deposit is withdrawn first, or the oldest debt is paid first. Applying this rule, the 
oldest deposit  was for £990.12 and this money  was used first. The next deposit of £149.76 
was also used. The newest deposit  was for £1,379.89 and this deposit  is considered  by the 
bank to not belong to Miss B. That amount was not used and remains  in the account as part 
of the closing balance. I have therefore  deducted  that amount from the closing balance 
Ref: DRN12768033leaving a total of £1,139.12. This balance of £1,139.12 should be returned to Miss B as it is 
mainly made up of her benefits payments.
So, on review of the evidence I think Cashplus should return  £1,139.12 to Miss B. This 
should be transferred  directly into Miss Bs new account.
I have gone on to consider the effect  on Miss B.
Effect on Miss B
I have considered the effect this block has had on Miss B. The account  was blocked on 15 
June 2018 and finally closed on 23 February 2020.  And to this date Miss B has been  unable 
to access her money. The investigator  thought  Cashplus should  pay Miss B £200 in 
compensation for the delay in dealing with her issues and I am minded to agree this is a fair 
amount in the circumstances.
In deciding on this amount,  I have taken into consideration that Miss B hasnt been able to 
access her money for nearly two years. She also had to open a new account so she could 
get her benefits  paid into it. Im sure this has caused Miss B significant upset and distress. I 
think Cashplus could have done  more to get the matter resolved sooner.
However, I have also balanced this with the real concerns that Cashplus had about  Miss Bs 
repeated security failures when contacting Cashplus. I accept that Cashplus must ascertain 
that they are dealing  with the correct  individual and Im aware from looking at the evidence 
that Miss B didnt pass  security on many occasions.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss B made no comments  on my provisional  decision. 
Cashplus made the following comments:  
They disagree that Cashplus could have refunded some of Miss Bs balance because at the 
time balance  refunds  were issued via cheque. As Miss B was failing security  on address as 
well as other details, it is unclear to where  such a cheque  could  be issued. The customer did 
not provide the requested  verification  documents to verify where the cheque could be issued 
to.
My findings
Ive re considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in the light of Cashplus response  to it.
Cashplus have said they would not have  been able to issue  a cheque  to Miss B as she 
wasnt passing security. I have considered  this point but Im afraid  I disagree.  
From the notes on the file I can see that when  Cashplus  wrote to Miss B at the address they 
held for her, she acted on the correspondence  she received. In particular  I know  that she 
provided her Identification documents following a letter sent by Cashplus on 9 May 2018. 
This suggests that there  was no issue with the address  on file. I also note Cashplus had no 
Ref: DRN12768034concerns regarding this address as they returned  her passport to her via Royal  mail special 
delivery. 
Cashplus havent suggested that their refund process requires Miss B to pass security on 
the phone. I think  it was the responsibility of the bank to find a way of resolving the situation 
given that communication with their customer was proving difficult.  Cashplus  could  have 
done more to help things  move forward. I say this because Miss B replied to written 
correspondence, so I think that Cashplus knew that the address they held for her was the 
correct address. I consider that a cheque payable to Miss B and posted to her address held 
by Cashplus would be a relatively low risk way of ensuring that she received her funds.  This 
is what Cashplus should have done at the time.  So, in summary I think Cashplus could have 
done more to ensure that Miss B received a cheque  to pay her benefits into her new 
account.
Cashplus are not querying  Miss Bs entitlement to the funds. So, in my view the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case is for Cashplus to send Miss B a cheque  for the balance  on 
the account as set out below together with interest and compensation for her distress.
For all these reasons and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case  is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
I require Advance  Payment Solutions  Limited trading as Cashplus to: 
Return £1,139.12  to Miss B together with interest at 8% simple  from the date the 
account was blocked until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss B £200 compensation for the material distress  and inconvenience.
Advance payment Solutions Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Miss B accepts  my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must  
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1276803