K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls father complains,  on Mr Ls behalf,  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt help his son 
when unexpected circumstances meant that Mr L wasnt able to look after his financial 
affairs.
background
In September  2016 Mr L unexpectedly found  himself in a position where he was unable  to 
control his bank account and his only source  of income ceased. His father said he would 
take over the management of his financial affairs and in November 2016 wrote  to various 
organisations to explain  his sons situation.  
A few days  later his father went into the local branch  and tried to pay enough money  into his 
sons account to cover the mortgage  repayment  and to reduce his sons  overdraft. He spoke 
to two employees of the bank who said he couldnt do this but didnt give him an explanation.
In September  2017 Mr Ls father  received a letter  addressed  to his son, but with his fathers 
address, from a debt collection  agency.  He complained to Barclays whose response  was 
that it didnt know  about Mr Ls situation.  
Barclays said it didnt have any record of receiving the letter  from Mr Ls father in November 
2016. In any event it said it wouldnt have been  able to trace the account  because there 
werent sufficient details on the letter.  It couldnt  explain why Mr Ls father wasnt  allowed to 
pay money into the account  but thought it might be due to him not having sufficient 
information about the account. And because Mr L hadnt contacted the bank directly the 
account continued to run until the bank closed it in July 2017 with an outstanding balance of 
£4,346.01.
In June 2018 Barclays wrote to Mr L to say it was refunding  £1,536 because it may not have 
offered you the support most appropriate  to your financial situation.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Barclays had acted unfairly. He could  understand why Barclays  
couldnt trace the account from the initial letter Mr Ls father  sent it. And he didnt consider it 
a problem when  Barclays didnt respond to someone not authorised on the account. He 
thought the difficulties Mr Ls father had paying into his sons account was likely to have 
been because  he didnt have all the account details. 
Mr Ls father, on behalf of his son, wasnt happy with this. He sent us a detailed response 
which Ive dealt with below 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When there is insufficient or conflicting  
evidence I have to base my decision on what I think is reasonably likely to have happened.
Mr Ls father was upset because the adjudicator didnt  treat this as a joint complaint. Under 
our rules  Mr L is the complainant so this is why the complaint is in his name  with his father 
as his representative. And let me say immediately that I can see what a distressing and 
frustrating time this must  have been for both of them. So I can understand how strongly Mr 
Ls father  feels about this.
Ref: DRN14676942Mr Ls father sent a very detailed letter in response  to the opinion of the adjudicator. And Ive 
considered all the individual points hes made about  the contents of that opinion.  But my role 
is to look again  at everything  both Mr Ls father  and Barclays  have told us. I will focus on 
what I think the key issues are. So I may not mention all the points Mr Ls father has raised  
in his response. For ease of reference  Ive dealt with the main areas of his concern under 
various headings. 
The initial letter in November 2016
The problem arose with Mr Ls account when  a letter his father sent to Barclays  at the end of 
November 2016  telling  it about  his sons situation  wasnt acted upon. Barclays says it didnt 
receive this and even  if it had it wouldnt  have  been able to do anything because  it could see 
from the copy of the letter  Mr Ls father has provided, it didnt have all the necessary details 
for the bank to trace the account.  And it said it didnt have authorisation from Mr L, at that 
time, for his father to deal with his affairs.
Mr Ls father doesnt accept Barclays didnt receive the letter.  He wrote to another nine 
organisations at the time and they all received and acted on a similar letter.  But I can only 
comment on Barclays actions. 
Mr Ls father sent the letter  to his sons local branch. It shows  the account number and 
although Mr Ls father didnt put the sort code on the letter he says the branch shouldve  
known its own sort code. There isnt any record of the bank receiving the letter so its difficult  
for me to say what happened to it. Barclays  says that any post addressed to a local branch 
is automatically redirected to its Leicester department. So it seems reasonably likely the 
absence of a sort code  meant the Leicester department wasnt able to allocate it to a 
particular account.  I know Mr Ls father  wont be happy with that but I dont have sufficient 
evidence to conclude  Barclays  made  any error in its handling of this letter.  
The visit to the local branch in November 2016
A few days  after he sent the letter Mr Ls father  went into his sons  local branch to pay 
money into his account. But two of the banks employees said he couldnt do this. Due to the 
length of time that has passed  it is difficult to know why he was told this. The bank said it 
may have  been  because  he didnt  have the sort code and account number of his sons 
account. 
Mr Ls father doesnt accept this. He says he had the account number. And the bank 
shouldve been  able to add the sort code. He says he can identify the two members  of staff 
and wants them interviewed. However I think its very unlikely they would remember  his visit 
from over two years ago. Particularly  as he says there was no acrimony  or harsh words 
that wouldve  made his visit more  memorable.  And the bank said itd contacted  the branch 
and no-one could remember his visit. 
In the absence of any further information  I cant make any findings about this visit and I cant  
reasonably conclude the staff in the local branch  did anything  wrong  when it wouldnt let Mr 
Ls father  pay any money into his sons account.
Ref: DRN14676943Letters from a Debt Collection Agency received  by Mr Ls father in September 2017
I cant look at the actions of the Debt Collection Agency as this complaint  is about Barclays. 
But Mr Ls father complains that Barclays must have given his address to the agency. And 
he says that means  Barclays mustve  received  his original  letter. But Barclays has spoken to 
the agency and it confirmed it traced the address  of Mr Ls father  through  other  means. So I 
cant reasonably  say it obtained  this information from Barclays.
Refund of interest,  fees and charges in June 2018
Barclays has refunded  charges itd made  on Mr Ls account between 3 May 2016 and 3 July 
2017. It explained itd identified customers who were  in excess of an agreed account limit 
and/or had fallen  behind  on their loan repayments . It seems to me that this was a general 
review of the accounts of particular customers of the bank  and not just of Mr Ls account. So 
I dont agree with his father that this refund was an admission of guilt. 
Compensation
Mr Ls father wants exemplary damages  and £500  to cover his expenses.  I know  he will be 
disappointed with my decision but for the reasons  Ive given above I dont have enough  
evidence to conclude  Barclays  has done  anything wrong so I cant fairly  ask it to pay Mr Ls 
father what hes asking for.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Ls father, on 
behalf of Mr L, to accept  or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1467694