K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2003. Mr C says Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr C has said he was mis-sold the policy because it wasnt made clear to him he had a 
choice about taking it and it was added  without him knowing. He also had savings he could 
have relied upon to make the monthly repayments.  
Our adjudicator didn't uphold  the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint  has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.  
Barclays has given us a copy of Mr Cs credit card application form. I see that Mr C ticked  
the box to take the Barclaycard Payment Protection.  There  was also an additional option of 
taking Barclaycard Card  Protection and I note that Mr C chose not to take that insurance. 
Mr C has told us he wasnt given a choice  to refuse  the policy and that it was added without 
his knowledge.  But by ticking the box and then choosing only one of the two insurances on 
offer, I think this shows that Mr C was aware  that he had a choice about taking the PPI and 
he decided he wanted it. 
Because of this, there  isnt enough for me to fairly  decide that Mr C was told he had to have
the policy. I think its more  likely  Mr C was given  a choice about  the policy and Mr C
decided to take it even though he might not remember this. This isnt surprising as the
sale was over 15 years ago and buying insurance  isnt typically a memorable
experience.
Barclays has told us it recommended the PPI to Mr C in branch, which means  it had check 
that the PPI was right for him. And based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time, I think it was right for him. For example,  he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover   a pre-existing medical  condition as an example. 
Mr C was employed at the time of the sale and has told us he would have received sick pay 
for up to three months if he wasnt above  to work.  But the policy  would have paid 10% of the 
outstanding account balance for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim if Mr C 
couldnt work or was made involuntarily unemployed. It would have also paid off the balance  
of up to £15,000 if Mr C had died. The policy would have paid out over and above any 
employee benefits Mr C would have received so those benefits  could have been  used  for 
other essential outgoings. 
Ref: DRN11369512Mr C has also told us that he had savings of £2,000 he could have relied upon to make  the 
monthly repayments. But by having the policy his savings could have  remained  intact  for 
their original purpose or other  emergencies.  So I think the policy  gave Mr C a financial 
benefit he didn't  already have.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it
should have been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks  to me like he wanted
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Overall, and taking into consideration Mr Cs comments  about what happened at the time of 
the sale and other benefits he could have relied upon, I dont find the policy was mis-sold.  
my final decision
Because of what Ive said above, I dont uphold the complaint as the policy  wasnt  mis-sold.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1136951