K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about the customer service  hes received from Bank  of Scotland plc. In 
particular hes unhappy that he was offered a credit  card by them and told he could complete 
a 0% balance transfer within a set timeframe. But when he then came  to do this, he was 
informed that it was not available. 
background
Mr T took out a credit card with Bank of Scotland which  had an effective date of 8 June 
2018. The credit  card agreement confirmed an introductory promotional offer on a balance  
transfer in the first 90 days   this being  0% p.a. fixed  for 24 months. 
Mr T contacted Bank of Scotland on 28 August 2018 to request a balance transfer, but his 
request was declined.  Bank of Scotland eventually confirmed Mr Ts customer profile  had 
been affected by an error  when the account  was opened, which  prevented the requested 
balance transfer  on 28 August  2018.  
An investigator has already considered this matter.  The investigator noted  Mr T had 
arranged 0% interest on his other credit card until 30 March 2019. She therefore felt Bank  of 
Scotland should pay the interest  that Mr T incurs  on his other credit card from 30 March 
2019 to 28 August 2020 (upon the production of relevant monthly statements). The 
investigator also suggested £500 compensation to Mr T to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience this whole  matter had caused him. 
Mr T wasnt happy about having  to provide Bank  of Scotland with his monthly statements for 
his other  credit card as he felt these were  private. Bank of Scotland  wasnt  happy to pay him 
£500 compensation. However in respect of the interest payments they did agree to award  
the first 6 months of interest  to Mr T upon  receipt  of the statements showing the interest that 
had been charged. Mr T would then be required to produce the September 2019 statement 
and they would refund a further  6 months from then.   
In light of the complaint being  unresolved, the case has now been referred to me for 
consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I too have  come  to the same outcome as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
It is clear Mr T was unable to arrange the balance transfer due to an error that occurred with 
Bank of Scotland. As such I think it only fair Mr T is put in the position as if hed been able to 
get the 0% balance  transfer for his other credit card. 
I can see from the evidence that Mr T had proposed  around May 2019 that Bank of Scotland  
pay the interest on his other credit card for 2 years from that date. Like the investigator,  I 
dont think this would be fair. The interest  free period  expired on the other  credit  card on 30 
March 2019. This is therefore the relevant start date for when Mr T started to incur  interest 
which he shouldnt have.  And the relevant end date is 28 August 2020. 
Just like the investigator Ive not seen evidence to support Mr Ts claim that Bank of 
Scotland made him an offer of 0% interest for 33 months on balance transfers. Or that his 
Ref: DRN14392972credit report  has been adversely affected by the searches Bank of Scotland  has carried out 
since this whole matter  began. 
I understand Bank of Scotland feel very strongly that the £500  compensation proposed  by 
the investigator is too much. Having looked  at this issue carefully,  I agree with the 
investigator. In particular  I think the ongoing  inconvenience of this matter needs to be 
realised, where  Mr T will be sending his relevant credit card statements to Bank of Scotland.  
Some time has passed since this case was looked  at by the investigator.  And therefore the 
redress noted below,  takes this into account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
1.Bank of Scotland plc should pay the monthly interest Mr T has incurred on the other 
credit card from 30 March 2019 to todays date, upon Mr T sending all the relevant 
monthly credit card statements to Bank of Scotland for this period.
2.Mr T should  then, going forward, send  each monthly statement for the credit card in 
question to Bank of Scotland,  where upon they will pay him the interest he has 
incurred. 
3.Bank of Scotland should also pay Mr T £500  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1439297