K820x#14complaint
Ms R has complained that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold  her a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Ms R has been represented  by a family  member  throughout her complaint. However, to keep 
things simple, Ill just be referring to Ms R in this decision.
background
Ms R took out the PPI at the same meeting in branch in which  she was arranging  the 
mortgage in 2010.
As well as complaining  about the sale of the PPI, Ms R also made  a service complaint to 
RBS about how it had handled her mis-sale  complaint.  RBS accepted  that there had been 
problems and paid Ms R £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Following the intervention  of our 
adjudicator, RBS agree to pay Ms R an additional £60. Ms R agreed that this was 
acceptable to resolve  that part of her complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint about the PPI being  mis-sold. Ms R disagrees  
with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
As the service complaint  has been resolved, this decision is only looking at whether or not 
the PPI was mis-sold  to Ms R.
Ms R says the PPI was bundled in with the mortgage and she was unaware she had it  
meaning that RBS added it without her knowledge or consent.
Ive seen some of the paperwork  from when Ms R was arranging the mortgage. Typically,  
mortgage interviews are fairly long meetings with the adviser  inputting  answers  given by the 
applicant as the discussion progresses. A form is then usually printed out at the end which  is 
a record of that discussion.  In this case there is a Giving Your Agreement form. There is a 
section of the form relating to insurance.  This section states:  from your requirements we 
have pre-crossed the boxes based on your decisions made  through  the application.  If you 
have decided you do not want to progress with any of the insurances, please initial beside 
the crossed box before sending back. There are three  types of insurance mentioned.
If you read the text next to the check boxes, it is clear that, in discussion with the adviser, Ms 
R chose not to have life assurance and home insurance but did choose PPI. The evidence 
suggests that Ms R was given a choice about  buying the different insurance products and 
that she felt comfortable  in declining two of them. Ms R has then written YES  and initialled 
next to the home insurance box. This suggests that she changed her mind  and did want  
home insurance after all. 
Ref: DRN19728502Ms R says she has initialled once  to decline all of the insurances on offer.  However, I am not 
persuaded by that. Firstly,  as Ive said, she had already  declined  two of the insurances.  
Secondly, had Ms R wanted her initials  to relate  to all three products, then I would have 
thought shed have initialled somewhere in the middle of all three boxes.  But the initials  are 
written small, in a direct line next to the home insurance box. Also,  she has written  YES 
when surely shed  have written NO if she had wanted to decline PPI.
The mortgage application form itself has recorded that Ms R wished to apply  for PPI. There 
was a statement  saying:  I do not require Loanguard Insurance against which Ms R could 
have initialled if she hadnt  wanted PPI. The mortgage offer explains that there is no 
compulsory insurance  which  needed  to be taken  with the mortgage  lending. 
Ms R says the PPI was bundled in with the mortgage and she was only told one overall 
monthly cost. However, the mortgage offer, under the heading Optional Insurance  that you 
do not have to take out through RBS states:  Mortgage Loanguard £27.49 per month. I have  
also seen that Ms R signed a separate direct debit form for the PPI. This means  that the PPI 
was collected  separately to the mortgage payment.
I have no doubt  that Ms R has provided her genuine recollection of events. But the sale was 
a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory  of the meeting has faded.  Ive 
thought carefully  about everything that Ms R has said. However, on balance, looking at the 
available evidence, I consider it is most likely that the PPI was discussed  and that Ms R was 
given a choice  about taking it. It seems  to me that Ms R decided to buy it, knowing that she 
didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
There seems  to be some confusion in relation to RBS saying that this was a non-advised 
sale, so Ill just explain a little bit further about  what that means.  An advised sale would be 
where the business asked an applicant a number of questions  about their circumstances and 
then would recommend the PPI, or not, depending  on its suitability. In a non-advised sale 
(sometimes called an information only sale)  the business doesnt ask suitability questions  
and doesnt make any recommendation one way or the other. It simply provides information 
about products  to allow the applicant to make up their own mind.
In this case, Im satisfied  that RBS didnt  recommend the policy to Ms R, so it didnt need to 
ensure that it met her needs. But it did need to provide Ms R with enough  information  for her 
to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy  was right for her.
Ms Rs employer would have given her six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if she was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Ms R would have received full pay for.
Ms R says she kept a large amount of cash savings. I can see from the mortgage application 
that she was re-mortgaging from another lender and also borrowing an additional  £20,000 to 
pay off debt. This seems  slightly at odds with what you might  expect from someone who had 
lots of savings. Ms R says she kept the cash savings as a rainy day fund and I accept  this 
may have  been  the case. But having  the PPI would have  allowed her to retain her savings or 
use them  to cover any other outgoings at what would  have  been  a difficult  time.
Ms R says she had other insurance policies. But one of the policies she has provided 
evidence off appears to be a PPI policy related to her previous mortgage and so I would 
Ref: DRN19728503imagine that was cancelled when Ms R re-mortgaged to RBS. From what  Ms R has said,  I 
dont think any of the policies she has mentioned provided the same cover as the PPI.
Its possible that RBS didnt provide as much information as it should  have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Ms R wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider  that Ms R had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind, So she is no worse 
off as a result of anything  RBS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that RBS needs to 
do to put things right.
Ms R has mentioned that she had some time off work due to an accident but didnt claim on 
the policy. Therefore,  she may wish to consider contacting the underwriter directly now to 
make a retrospective claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Rs mis-sale complaint. However, The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc should now pay Ms R the additional  £60 it offered for the service complaint,  if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1972850