K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank plc changed the way it calculated  overdraft charges, resulting in a 
significant increase  in the amount he was asked to pay. 
background
Mr S has a current  account with Lloyds  and makes regular use of his overdraft facility  as he has 
done for some years. Lloyds changed the way it charges for overdrafts in November 2017. Rather  
than charging usage  fees and interest,  it switched to a daily charge of 1p per £7 of balance used. 
This resulted in Mr S paying  significantly  more  for his overdraft than he had before  sometimes  
more than £150 instead of £60 a month. 
Mr S says he didnt know about  the changes until about April 2018.  He feels  strongly  that the 
charges are extortionate  pointing out that the service he gets under the new charging structure is 
no different from that he received before the changes at the end of 2017.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss concerns  but didnt think  that Lloyds should refund or 
reduce the overdraft charges as Mr S had wanted. She concluded that, since he had taken out a 
loan in or about November 2018, it appeared that he could have taken steps  to avoid incurring 
them. Mr S didnt agree with the investigators  assessment, and so his complaint has been passed 
to me to review  as the final stage in this services  process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, however, Ive come  to broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did.
Ill deal firstly with Mr Ss statement that he didnt know about the increase in charges (for him at 
least  some customers paid less after November 2017 than they had before) until some months 
after the change. Lloyds  says it contacted  all its customers  in August and September  2017 to tell 
them about  the changes.  It had Mr Ss correct  contact details at that time, and I think  it more likely 
than not that he was included in the banks  communications.
Mr Ss main argument is that the charging structure Lloyds introduced  in November 2017 makes its 
overdraft fees extortionate. On that point, the Supreme Court  decided in 2009  that default 
charges (meaning  charges  triggered  when a current  account is being operated  outside  an agreed 
overdraft limit) were  in effect part of the price a customer agreed to pay for a range  of services. 
The courts couldnt therefore  say those charges were unfair simply because they appeared to be 
high. Since  the end of 2017, Lloyds  charges  have  been the same,  whether an account is within or 
outside any agreed overdraft limit. I dont believe therefore that I can properly say that the charges 
Mr S incurred were unfair because of the level at which Lloyds set them.  I appreciate that Mr S 
feels strongly about this, but I cant,  in effect,  limit what  a bank chooses to charge for its services. 
Ive considered too whether it was fair for Lloyds to change the way it charged  Mr S for providing  
him with an overdraft  since in doing  that it was effectively asking him to agree to a change in his 
contract with the bank.  I stress that, in doing so, Im not seeking to make any general findings 
about the changes  not least because some customers will have benefited from those changes 
and not be unhappy with the banks actions. What  I need to look at is how Lloyds treated Mr S.   
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says an unfair  term isnt binding on a consumer. The Act says 
that a term allowing a business to change a contract  unilaterally without giving a valid reason in the 
Ref: DRN17664242contract is likely  to be unfair. But that doesnt include a term allowing a change in charges for 
financial services, providing  the consumer must  be told about  it at the earliest opportunity,  and can 
dissolve the contract. 
Here, the bank changed its charges  for financial services. As Ive explained, I think  it told Mr S that 
it was going to do so. So I need  to consider whether he was free to dissolve the contract   by 
closing the account. Legally, Mr S was free to close  the account  in the sense that the terms didnt  
stop him or require him, for example, to pay a fee to do so. But I need to consider too whether it 
was practical, given hed have  to arrange  to repay his overdraft. In considering that point, I have in 
mind too that it wouldnt usually  be fair to refund charges that a customer could  have avoided  by 
taking reasonable steps.
Mr S explained that he was unwilling  to try to switch  bank accounts or, for example, to refinance 
his overdraft by taking out a loan. I can understand why he might be reluctant to do either  of those 
things. But thats  not the same as being  unable to close his account  or clear his overdraft.
Our investigator noted that Mr S had taken out a loan (for significantly more than his outstanding 
overdraft) in November 2018. She took that as an indication that he could have taken similar  action 
to avoid or reduce his overdraft charges  or to dissolve his contract with Lloyds by closing his 
account. Whilst Mr S reiterated  his view that the charges  were  extortionate, he hasnt explained 
why he couldnt  have done  that. And, for the reasons Ive explained, I cant  properly say that the 
charges were unfair to Mr S simply because of the level at which  they were set or because Lloyds 
increased them.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint and dont require 
Lloyds Bank  plc to take any further  steps to resolve it. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
20 March 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1766424