K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  wont  refund money that was spent 
on a gambling  website. He says he didnt  spend  this money.
Mr A is helped  in his complaint by a family member. But, for ease, Ill refer to most things as 
though Mr A has said them himself.
background
The details of whats said to have happened  here are well known  to both Mr A and RBS.  So 
I hope both parties  will accept the following  as a brief summary.
Mr A contacted RBS when he saw money  had been  taken out of his account and spent on a 
gambling website.  He says he didnt do this. RBS looked into things but didnt refund any of 
the money. The bank said:
This was the third time Mr A had claimed  to be the victim of fraud for such spending. The 
two previous claims had involved  two different  debit cards (so it seemed unlikely this 
would be an opportunistic fraud);
It was unlikely  to be fraud because there  seemed to be no benefit to a fraudster  as any 
winnings would  be paid into Mr As bank account;
There was no dispute Mr A had an account  with the gambling company concerned; and
Mr A still had the debit  card used to spend  the money  and it had been used to carry out 
genuine spending between those transactions Mr A was now disputing (meaning 
somebody would have had to take Mr As card and return  it to him, without him realising  
on multiple  occasions).
RBS then carried out a review  of its banking relationship with Mr A and gave him the 
required notice to close his account.
Mr A wasnt  happy with RBS response  to what had happened. So he contacted us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into things  for Mr A. But, in summary, she agreed  that RBS 
didnt have to refund Mr A any of the money.  In coming to this conclusion,  the adjudicator 
considered the requirements of the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs)  as these  set out 
whats needed for a bank  to hold a customer liable for spending in circumstances like this.
She asked  RBS for detailed records of how the disputed spending had been authorised. 
That showed  the vast majority had required validation from information  on the card itself.  
This had been  provided when the betting  took place and Mr A said hed had his card at all 
times.
The gambling company had already refunded a small number of transactions  it couldnt  
confirm had been validated in this way. But the banks records showed Mr As genuine card 
(and security information)  had been  used  for all the other transactions   both the disputed  
ones and those  Mr A confirmed he had made. So this made it extremely  unlikely somebody  
unknown to Mr A would have carried out the spending.
Ref: DRN15746882RBS records showed that more than one device (mobile phone, tablet or computer) had 
been used to make the bets.  But this  of itself  didnt  mean  Mr A hadnt made them. Many 
of the internet (IP) addresses used to carry out both the disputed betting have also been 
used for genuine  spending by Mr A.
The adjudicator agreed with RBS that it was hard to see any benefit  to a fraudster in making  
the bets, as any winnings would be paid into Mr As bank account. Mr A said it was easily  
possible for somebody to access  his account with the gambling company and change  the 
details for where  the winnings could be paid. But the gambling company said this wasnt the 
case  and that any new bank account  would need to be registered with it first.
Mr As representative said hed stopped using gambling websites earlier  in 2018  so he 
couldnt have  carried out this particular  block of betting. But the adjudicator noted when Mr A 
had been given a new debit card (after this incident) his bank statement showed  that new 
card had also been used for gambling  (albeit with a different company). And Mr A hadnt 
disputed that new spending.
Mr As representative explained  his particular  circumstances, which  they thought  
demonstrated Mr A simply couldnt have  carried out the betting. They also said Mr A had 
requested RBS change his account. Had this been done, the fraud wouldnt have happened.
The adjudicator didnt think this information changed her overall conclusion. It didnt override 
the clear evidence provided  by the bank  (and the gambling company).
As Mr A still didnt agree with the adjudicators view, his complaint  has been passed  to an 
ombudsman to review. So Ive been  asked  to do this and issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr A  and perhaps  more  so, his family member  feels  very strongly about whats 
happened here. And thats not surprising. There is over £1,000 involved. So Mr As bound  to 
be concerned.
And Im very sorry to hear of Mr As particular circumstances. These  cant  have helped 
matters. I hope he continues to get the support he needs.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr A that I agree  with the adjudicator that RBS doesnt have to 
refund him any money. Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to what the adjudicator has 
already said. I think she set out the position  quite thoroughly.
Having said that, its important I reassure Mr A that Ive looked at his complaint afresh and 
considered everything  he and RBS have said.
Theres no dispute Mr A had an account with the gambling company concerned. And hes 
used that account before   and indeed similar companies in the past,  and also since this 
unfortunate incident.
Ref: DRN15746883Ive looked at RBS records. They support what the adjudicators  said.  Apart from the 
spending which the gambling  company has a concern  might  have been made using  Mr As 
debit card  which  its refunded direct to Mr As bank account anyway  all the spending has 
been carried out using his genuine  card and supported  by the relevant security information.
I note at one point Mr A suggested the betting  may have been carried  out by somebody he 
lived with. Putting to one side the fact Mr A shouldnt really leave his bank card in a place 
where somebody could  just pick it up and use it, theres still the issue  of that other  person 
gaining any benefit  from using it on Mr As account  with the gambling company. It says 
somebody would have to register a new bank  account with it before any winnings could be 
paid into it.
That didnt happen. And its also unclear how that other  person  would  have been  able to 
access Mr As account with the gambling company. I accept people often save  account 
information and passwords on their mobile devices  (and computers). But that still means the 
other person involved here would also need to have access to both Mr As bank card and at 
least one of his devices where this information  was stored.
It would also be quite  a coincidence for that person to get both Mr As debit card and a 
device not long after Mr A had received a large credit into his RBS account. Im not sure how 
that other  person would have known  about  this credit.
The adjudicator set out in some detail where  and how some of the transactions on Mr As 
RBS account  were carried out  referring  to times  when his online/mobile banking was 
accessed and the IP addresses  involved.
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr As representative  says about his particular circumstances.  
But Ive reviewed the above information and agree that its a bit surprising he didnt see the 
disputed spending  and/or his bank balance reducing. It does appear Mr A was accessing  his 
online/mobile banking  at times when his representative said this wouldnt be possible.
When I combine all of the information, it points to Mr A carrying  out the betting himself.  
I realise thats a difficult message to give  not only to him but to his family member thats 
supporting him. But I hope Ive explained its where  the available evidence leads me.
In coming to this conclusion, Ive considered carefully the requirements of the PSRs, and the 
guidance of the Financial  Conduct Authority, around authorisation of spending. And, on this 
occasion, Im satisfied RBS can hold Mr A responsible for it.
I realise both Mr A and his representative  will be disappointed with my decision.  And Mr A 
may want to take the matter further  through other  routes.  But my decision brings to an end 
what we, in trying to resolve  his dispute  with RBS informally,  can do for him. 
Im really  sorry  we cant help Mr A any further on this and hope he continues to get the 
support he needs  to address his particular circumstances.
Ref: DRN15746884my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint and The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt  have to refund  him any money.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, or his 
representative, to accept or reject my decision before  22 November 2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1574688