K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about the way in which AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a travel 
insurance claim. 
My references to AXA include its assistance  agents.
background
Mrs A and her husband Mr A had travel insurance linked to a bank account. The insurer is 
AXA. 
While on holiday  Mr A fell very seriously ill. Mrs A contacted AXA. When  he was well enough 
he was brought  back to the UK by air ambulance  and taken into a UK hospital intensive  care 
unit. 
Mrs A complained to AXA about  the way it had handled the repatriation  arrangements  for her 
husband, and in particular the time it took to bring  him home. AXA said the time taken  had 
been due to her husbands medical  condition. AXA did accept that it could have 
communicated better  with Mrs A and paid her £250  compensation. 
Mrs A came to us. She informed us that her husband had sadly passed away  and she was 
upset that AXA had sent its response to the complaint to him. We explained the position  to 
AXA. AXA said it hadnt realised. It said sorry for the distress  caused and paid an additional 
£150 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs As complaint. She concluded that AXA had handled the 
repatriation properly. She thought the compensation it had paid was fair for the element of 
poor communication and for sending the response  addressed to Mr A. At Mrs As request 
she listened to the available calls between AXA and Mrs A and explained that they didnt 
change her view. Mrs A asked for a review  so the complaints come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed this case I can see that Mrs A had an extremely distressing time when her 
husband was seriously ill abroad. Im also very sorry to hear of her loss. 
My role is to assess whether AXA dealt properly with Mrs As assistance claim under her 
travel insurance policy. I need  to consider  whether any failings on AXAs  part added to 
Mrs As distress  at such a difficult time. Mrs A has said that if AXA had handled the 
repatriation differently then her husband  might not have passed  away.  Ive looked at the 
evidence very closely  to decide a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Having done so overall I think AXA dealt  properly and efficiently with Mr As repatriation. In 
my view AXA took all the steps necessary and in a timely way to bring  Mr A home as quickly  
as medically possible. I will focus on the issues I think are central to this complaint.   
In line with the policy terms I think that AXA made its decisions about repatriation  in 
consultation with Mr As treating doctors  and its own medical team.  Mrs A has suggested  
Ref: DRN11081562that its decisions might have been  driven by financial considerations but Ive not seen any 
evidence of that. My review of the case  shows that AXA had Mr As health and wellbeing  at 
the centre of its decisions about repatriation. It made enquiries about  his medical care and 
liaised with his treating  doctors. 
It was very difficult for Mrs A because I can see that shed been told that Mr A could come  
home by air ambulance much earlier than he was actually brought back to the UK. So I can 
entirely understand her upset and disappointment when this was delayed a number of times. 
At times she wasnt feeling  well herself  and she explained to AXA she felt very alone. AXAs 
records show that it asked  its local agent  to visit her and also looked into arranging  for a 
friend to travel to her for support.
The medical evidence  shows that Mr A was very unwell. He received treatment in intensive 
care for much of the time.  In order to travel  home  he needed to be fit to fly. I appreciate  
Mrs A was advised by his doctor that he could fly by air ambulance.  But AXAs  own medical 
team who are very experienced in aviation medicine were entitled  to assess  his condition 
before it could arrange for an air ambulance. The air ambulance team themselves have their 
own medical clearance guidelines.  
The repatriation was by way of two stages.  It took well over one month  before  Mr A was fit to 
fly on the first leg of the journey to a large city. I appreciate Mrs A had wanted  to travel to a 
different, closer city where  she had family. AXA looked  into this. But it wasnt possible 
because of Mr As medical  needs  and the air ambulance arrangements  for the flight to the 
UK.  
Because of Mr As medical  condition the arrangements for the air ambulance werent 
straightforward. A number of steps  had to be followed including  getting him a visa, medical 
clearance for the air ambulance and up to date fit to fly certificates. AXA also had to liaise  
with the UK hospitals intensive care unit to make  sure a bed was available  for Mr A. 
Unfortunately there was a delay in getting  the visa due to a local public holiday. This was out 
of AXAs  control but must have been  very frustrating for Mrs A as she had understandably  
just wanted to get home. Unfortunately the medical  evidence shows that Mr A then had an 
infection, which further delayed the trip. The arrangements to bring him home had to be 
made based on his health  at the point of repatriation. So there was disappointment  again 
just before Mr A was repatriated but I dont think this was due to something AXA did wrong.
Mrs A complained to AXA about  aspects of the air ambulance journey home, including  her 
access to her husband during the trip, the manner of the medical  staff and that the plane had 
to stop part-way through due to a technical problem. I am sorry to hear of this. But I dont 
think I can fairly hold AXA responsible  for these issues, which  were  out of its control.
Mrs A complained shed  not been  told to keep all her receipts  to claim her expenses and 
AXA apologised for this. Our investigator  asked it to send  her a claim form for any expenses 
which were outstanding. 
AXA has paid £250 compensation for not staying in touch with Mrs A enough. I think  this 
was reasonable.  I think initially  AXA did keep in regular  touch with Mrs A and was concerned 
about her well being. But after Mr A was moved to the city hospital I think AXA could have 
done more to update  her. There  was a lot going on behind the scenes so this didnt delay 
the arrangements for bringing Mr A home.  Overall I think £250 compensation was fair. I also 
Ref: DRN11081563think AXAs  additional  payment of £150  compensation  for writing to Mr A was fair, given the 
distress it caused Mrs A. That being so I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mrs A, for the reasons  Ive explained my decision is that 
I do not uphold  her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1108156