K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. deducted  three  separate excess amounts  from her travel insurance claim.
My references to Mapfre include its agents. 
background
Miss M booked a holiday abroad  for herself,  her adult son and her younger  son. She paid for 
the flights and the hotel.  She also took out insurance  with Mapfre. 
Unfortunately the airline cancelled the flights at short notice. This meant  Miss M and her 
children couldnt  travel. The airline refunded the flights and Miss M claimed from Mapfre for 
her hotel costs. 
Mapfre accepted  the claim and paid it less a £200  excess for each person so £600 in total. 
Miss M said this was unfair and came to us.
Our adjudicator said it had been  fair for Mapfre to deduct the three  excesses so he didnt 
uphold the complaint. Miss M didnt agree, as shed paid for the holiday and made only one 
claim. Shed had no choice but to claim after the airline cancelled the flights. She said 
Mapfre should have  deducted only one excess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it for 
broadly the same reasons  given by our adjudicator. 
I appreciate Miss M had no choice about abandoning  the holiday plans after the airline 
cancelled the flights. This is why Mapfre accepted her claim.
Miss M had opted for a higher excess of £200  per person. The policy terms clearly say that 
an excess will be deducted per person per claim. Miss M made  only one claim. But the claim 
was for the loss of the holiday for Miss M and her sons. They  were all due to travel even 
though shed paid for the holiday. The claim was for the cancellation of the holiday for all 
three of them. So Mapfre could fairly  deduct a £200  excess for each person.
I think Mapfre assessed the claim fairly so I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1472290