K822xcomplaint
Miss R has complained about the poor service from her broker,  Ageas Retail  Limited, after 
she made an enquiry  in 2018 about  a potential claim under  her personal accident insurance  
policy which  it had sold to her ten years  earlier.
background 
In 2008, Miss R held a personal accident insurance  policy which  had been  sold to her by 
Ageas. She was involved in a road traffic  accident which sadly  left her with significant 
injuries but didnt  make  a claim at that time.   
In 2018, Miss R discovered  that she had held the personal accident policy  at the time of her 
accident. She telephoned Ageas for advice on how to make a claim.  Ageas told her to email 
it with further details of the policy. Miss R did this but two months later still hadnt  heard back 
from Ageas. She therefore complained to it.
Ageas didnt uphold her complaint. It apologised  for its lack of response but said it had no 
record of receiving Miss Rs email. It explained  that it would be up to the insurer  to decide  
whether she had a valid claim and provided  her with the insurers details.
Miss R was unhappy at Ageas response. She referred her complaint to us. 
While the complaint was under investigation, Ageas  traced the telephone conversation  in 
2018 between  Miss R and its adviser. It noted  that its adviser had told Miss R to email  Ageas 
with further details but had provided an email  address which  was no longer monitored.  This 
was why her email had not been  answered.  In view of this, it offered £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  but considered that the 
offered compensation was fair.
Miss R didnt accept the investigators findings. She thought Ageas should pay a higher level 
of compensation.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
but I agree with the investigator that the offered compensation is fair.
Ageas has accepted it made a mistake  by giving the wrong  email  address to Miss R. As a 
result, nothing happened on her enquiry into a potential claim for over two months. I 
recognise that this would have been  frustrating for Miss R. However, I note that Ageas 
eventually gave Miss R the details she needed to contact the insurer.  After taking everything 
into account, Im satisfied its offer of £50 compensation was fair.
Miss R has also raised a complaint against  Ageas over its actions in 2008 and against the 
insurer over its refusal to now accept her claim.  These are being dealt with by us under 
separate complaint references. 
Ref: DRN18056422my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Retail  Limited, if it 
hasnt already done so, to pay Miss R £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1805642