K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a car he financed through an agreement with Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, trading  as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)  was mis-sold to him and that 
theres been a fault hed like them to pay to repair.
background
In July 2018 Mr S took receipt of a used car. He financed the deal through a five year fixed 
sum loan with BPF.  At the point of sale the car was about three and a half years  old and had 
covered 46,370 miles.
He says the dealership told him the car had voice activation and he also complains that 
theyve refused to reimburse costs hes expended getting a faulty  rear light circuit  repaired 
as theyve said the fault was due to the wrong  bulb being fitted by Mr S. He made  his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75) as he said the finance  
provider was jointly responsible for the issue.
But BPF didnt agree  with Mr S. They said the vehicle  wasnt advertised as having voice 
activation and as the dealer had disputed telling Mr S it did they didnt  think  there was 
evidence the car had been mis-sold. 
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence to demonstrate the car was misrepresented to 
Mr S. He noted that the dealership had disputed telling him the car had voice  activation and 
he reviewed the specification of the car that had been identified in the invoice and noted 
voice activation was an optional feature. He didnt think BPF needed to pay for the faulty  
light circuit repair either. He noted  the repair had taken  place in November 2018, four 
months after sale, and he was persuaded it was most likely the result of wear and tear. He 
didnt think it was likely the fault was there from the beginning so he couldnt say BPF were 
responsible for rectifying it.
Mr S was still dissatisfied so he asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S but I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
Ref: DRN16581082same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
misrepresentation
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car was misrepresented  to Mr S.
Whilst I understand his view that he was told by the dealership the car came  with voice 
activation, hes not provided any further evidence of that. The dealership dispute telling Mr S 
the wrong information and the specification of the car tells me that voice activation is 
optional on this vehicle.  
So I think BPF acted fairly when  they rejected Mr Ss section 75 claim.
responsibility for repair costs to the light circuit
The fault occurred  four months after purchase and Im not persuaded there  is evidence  the 
fault was there from the beginning: when the dealer had liability  for the problem and BPF 
had a joint liability. I think its reasonable to suggest  that if the light bulb circuitry was faulty  at 
the point of sale, the bulb wouldnt have been  working. So it seems most likely that the 
failure happened at some point after Mr S took receipt of the vehicle.
Im unsure  whether the warranty was funded by the fixed sum loan. I think  it probably  wasnt  
as its not mentioned in the agreement. So its unlikely BPF have any responsibility  for it and 
Mr Ss complaint about the warranty is for the dealership to handle.  Ive reviewed the 
warranty anyway and can see that light bulbs and wiring arent  included  so Im not 
persuaded that a claim under the warranty cant be successful.
Overall, I dont  think BPF have been unreasonable here either. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1658108