K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Ageas  Insurance Limited  wont pay towards the cost of undamaged 
units in her kitchen, following her home insurance  claim  for water damage.
background
In February 2019  Miss M made a claim to Ageas in respect of damage caused by a leak in 
her kitchen. Ageas accepted the claim and appointed contractors to carry out the necessary 
repairs to the flooring  and kitchen units. The contractors gave Miss M a list of suppliers and 
she attempted to find a matching design  and colour for the units to be replaced.  She was 
told it was for her to decide. She advised the contractors  that shed been unable  to match 
the existing units. They  referred  her back to Ageas who pointed  out that there was no cover 
for undamaged parts of a set in the policy. It offered to pay a cash settlement, but Miss M 
opted to have a different design for the panels,  doors and drawers. She paid in full for the 
undamaged replacement parts.
Miss M complained to Ageas but it pointed out the condition in the policy  regarding  
undamaged parts of a set and reiterated that there  was no cover  for those parts.
On referral to this service  our investigator  ultimately thought that as Ageas hadnt taken 
steps to find a suitable match, it should pay 50% of the cost of the undamaged parts of the 
units which had to be replaced.
Ageas objected, pointing  out again the condition in the policy concerning undamaged parts  
of a set.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has pointed out the following condition in its policy which  says:
Matching Sets
As with most insurers, each separate item of a matching set of furniture, sanitary fittings, soft 
furnishings or other  fixtures and fittings  is regarded  as a single item.
We will only pay for lost or damaged items  and not for the cost of replacing, recovering or 
remodelling undamaged pieces or pieces which have not been lost or damaged.
That does,  I think,  set out the general position  in most home insurance policies i.e. that the 
cover is generally provided for individual damaged items. That is unless the policy 
specifically provides cover for matching sets. But that doesnt mean necessarily that it is fair 
to apply it. Miss M would have been left with a kitchen that didnt match,  in part. I also 
understand from Ageas that it does  offer policies that give cover  for undamaged matching 
items in full or in part, but not Miss Ms policy which is a branded  one. Ive seen no indication 
that Miss M was informed  about the availability of such  cover,  although on the other hand I 
dont know whether she would've  been  willing to pay the additional  premium.
Ref: DRN11406632In these sorts of circumstances  we usually expect insurers to take steps to provide a 
matching replacement. In this case Miss M was simply  given a list of suppliers and left to find 
matching items herself. The contractors didnt, for example, offer her the services of a 
specialist company. Indeed in other policies Ageas has, the wording is:
 If an item thats part of a matching set or suite is damaged, well aim to repair  it or provide 
an identical  replacement.
I note that Ageas sent us some photos  from trade websites which  shows  panels or plinths in 
a similar  design to Miss Ms old kitchen. But I dont  think those photos show that a match  
could have been supplied. I think it reasonable to accept Miss Ms evidence that she visited  
those suppliers herself so would have seen the colour/design in situ.
So as Ageas couldnt supply a match for the damaged items to the other undamaged parts  
of the kitchen, I dont  think its fair for it to decline to pay towards any replacement  of the 
undamaged parts.
Our normal approach  in such cases would be to require the insurer  to pay compensation,  of 
up to 50% of the undamaged parts of the set. The kitchen is quite small, albeit with a run of 
base units and wall cupboards on three  sides. I understand the cost to Miss M was £1,400. I 
think in the circumstances of this case, taking into account the size of the kitchen and the 
cost, Ageas  should  pay to Miss M 50% of the cost of the undamaged  items she had to pay 
for. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay to Miss M 50% of the 
cost she had to pay for the undamaged parts of her kitchen units  replaced  as a result  of her 
claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before  21 June 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1140663