K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr W payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2004 to cover  a 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
I think Lloyds made  Mr W aware that the PPI was optional,  but that he still chose to take it. 
The application process set out the PPI as a choice.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W, and this means it had a higher standard to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr Ws 
particular circumstances.  However, finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties.  And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws situation at the time: 
Its likely  Mr W was eligible for the policy.  
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr W received any employer 
sick pay. It would  have paid unemployment benefits  in addition to any redundancy 
pay. And it would  have put off the time when Mr W would  need  to fall back  on any 
savings or other means he may have had for paying  the mortgage and other living 
costs. This all would  have put Mr W in a more secure position,  if hed eventually  lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford  the PPI when he took it out. 
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr W would 
have been significantly affected  by any of these.
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and a recommendation was suitable. 
Mr W says that Lloyds  didnt take into account  his situation, including  his work-related 
benefits. He says that he was entitled to 12 months  notice  and that when he was later 
Ref: DRN13123332made redundant, the insurer declined to pay out on the PPI until his 12 months pay-in-lieu-
of-notice had finished. He says this aspect  wasnt explained  to him when buying the PPI. 
I can see that the policy does say that you would not be treated as unemployed whilst you 
are in receipt of, or entitled to receive, payment in lieu of notice. And I accept it is very 
unlikely the bank adviser would have drawn this to Mr Ws attention.  However, I dont see 
that this disadvantaged  Mr W. The purpose of PPI insurance is to cover your mortgage 
payments when you have lost your employment  income. As Mr W says he was paid the 
equivalent of 12 months  pay, which means  he wasnt really  without income  for those 12 
months. So I dont see that the policy, in practical  terms,  would have  been  significantly 
different from what he was expecting. 
Mr W also says he had good sick pay entitlement, and critical illness  insurance. Critical 
illness insurance covers only certain  very serious illness.  The PPI would have  paid out if 
Mr W was off work for more than the minimum period,  because  of other sickness. And it 
would have paid out at the same time as any employer sick pay. 
Mr W says his mortgage allowed him to take a 12 month payment break. But it would have 
been up to Mr W to decide whether that meant he didnt want  to take out PPI. He could have 
used the PPI to pay his mortgage instead of taking a payment break, and this ultimately 
would have left him better off. So I dont think the existence of the possible payment  break  
made the Lloyds  recommendation  unsuitable. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr W took the PPI. 
So, overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN13123333my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1312333