K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with his home emergency 
claim unfairly and unreasonably.  He wants matters put right.
background
Mr E had a home emergency policy with IPA, which covered repairs  needed to his boiler 
(amongst other things). His boiler broke down. Mr E said that IPA said that it couldnt  send  
an engineer so he should get one himself  and it would refund him the cost. Mr E did this and 
the engineer carried  out repairs. But a few days later,  Mr E said that the boiler tripped all the 
electrics and IPA refused  to send any help as he told IPA that his flue may be the issue. IPA 
told him that this wasnt covered by the policy as it didnt cover  wear and tear, malicious 
damage or poor workmanship. Mr E also was unhappy that the £740 cost of the engineers  
visit hadnt been refunded.
Mr E complained to IPA. It said that when  the initial problem with the boiler  arose, it arranged 
for an engineer to contact Mr E, but he didnt return the call promptly, causing  the 
appointment slot to be lost. IPA said that it didnt return  Mr Es call to re-arrange the 
appointment immediately, and accepted that it didnt send an engineer to Mr Es property 
within 24 hours of his first call due to the inability of the engineer to reach him. But it said that 
it was clear that if Mr E arranged his own engineer, it had told him that it would reimburse 
that cost to the extent that the terms and conditions of the policy  required.  IPA said that the 
work needed appeared to be due to wear and tear or poor workmanship from what Mr E had 
told it. It was happy for Mr E to get the boiler  repaired and to send the engineers  report to 
allow IPA to look at the matter again.  IPA paid £150 compensation for the failure to return a 
call and for not sending an engineer within 24 hours. 
Mr E complained to us. The investigators view was that Mr E was told he could arrange  for 
his own engineer to repair  the boiler and the cost would be refunded in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. The claim form told Mr E that the refund could take up to 21 
working days; IPA had confirmed that the claim would be paid and within the deadline. The 
investigator thought  that this was reasonable. She also had spoken  to the engineer  who 
repaired the boiler, who confirmed that the issue might be the flue. The investigator thought 
that it was fair and reasonable for IPA to point out the terms and conditions  and to say if 
Mr E wanted  to get the boiler  repaired and forward a report, it would consider the claim. She 
also thought £150 compensation for poor customer service was fair and reasonable.
Mr E disagreed. He said the investigator  was incorrect and he hadnt received the refund. 
Mr E said that the policy didnt exclude  flues and he still didnt have a working  boiler. He said 
boilers only broke down  due to wear and tear and it was ridiculous to have such an 
exclusion. IPA confirmed that it had sent the money  to Mr E and it had processed the refund 
just after 21 working  days after his claim form was logged; it pointed  out that the banking 
system took time to actually transfer the funds.  The investigator didnt think this warranted  
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12714562The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Several issues have  been raised  as part of this complaint. First, the evidence  (including 
notes made  at the time and the call recordings) available to me shows  that IPA did try to 
send an engineer to Mr Es property within 24 hours,  but unfortunately Mr E didnt notice he 
had a voicemail and the slot was lost. I dont think this is IPAs  fault, but note that it has paid 
compensation for this failure in any event. 
And I dont  think it was unfair or unreasonable for IPA to offer to allow  Mr E to get his own 
engineer if he wasnt  willing  to wait. The call recording  shows Mr E was told the cost would 
be refunded if the work done  was covered  by the policy.  
Mr E complains that IPA took too long to refund him. But IPA never  promised to repay  Mr E 
by a particular  date when the matter was discussed. The claim form made  it clear  that it 
could take up to 21 working  days  to deal with the claim; working days are Monday to Friday. 
The evidence shows that IPA was slightly late in dealing with the claim, but I dont think  
compensation is due, especially as from what the engineer told this service, some  of the 
work mightnt have  been covered by the policy;  Mr E has benefitted.
Mr E is unhappy that IPA wont send another engineer to look at his boiler.  But it did offer to 
consider an engineers report  once the work was done; given the passage of time since this 
complaint was made, I presume the work has now been done  but no report  has been sent to 
us. And from what the engineer who first dealt with the boiler has told this service,  it seems 
that its possible that the issue isnt covered by the policy; if the flue was incorrectly  installed 
originally or has failed due to wear and tear, the policy doesnt cover it. IPA, when Mr E was 
discussing the matter,  explained to him that from the information available  to it, it was likely  
that the work  required wasnt covered.  I dont  think this was unfair or unreasonable;  rather  
than carry out work which appeared  unlikely  to be covered by the policy, IPA acted fairly and 
reasonably in asking Mr E to confirm the position  and forward evidence to be considered.
Mr E has complained about the waiting times to speak to staff and a failure to return his 
calls. I think £150  compensation is more than fair and reasonable for this issue,  even when 
combined with the inability  to send an engineer to attend the property within  24 hours.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
8 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1271456