K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc continued  to contact him after hed closed his 
account despite being asked not to. 
background
Mr C had a Clydesdale  current account and closed it on 26 June 2018. He told Clydesdale 
he didnt want to receive any communications from it but it continued  to contact him. 
In August  2018  Mr C complained and Clydesdale responded on 5 October 2018. Clydesdale  
apologised for sending Mr C marketing material. But Clydesdale  didnt  mention  Mr Cs 
recently closed current account.  Whilst Clydesdale apologised it didnt offer Mr C any 
compensation. 
Mr C referred  his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had happened. 
Mr C advised that there were some confusing reference numbers on his complaint  
correspondence and that he thought Clydesdale should offer some  compensation. But the 
adjudicator thought Clydesdales  apology was a fair way to resolve  Mr Cs complaint so 
didnt recommend it do anything else. Mr C asked for his complaint  to be appealed  to so its 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  agree that Clydesdale shouldnt have written to Mr C with marketing information 
after he closed his current account. And I know Mr C received a letter from Clydesdale dated  
1 October 2018 providing details of changes  to the account terms. I can also see that 
Clydesdale referred  to Mr Cs closed savings account instead of his current account in the 
final response. As all parties broadly agree about  what happened Ive focused on whether 
Clydesdales dealt  with Mr Cs complaint fairly. 
Mr C says hes been inconvenienced by Clydesdale writing to him and having to deal with 
his complaint. I can see that Mr C has had to contact Clydesdale about whats happened 
and that its made some  errors. But we dont  award  compensation to punish or fine 
businesses. And were not the regulator, thats the Financial  Conduct Authority. Our 
approach is to look at the impact of an error on a consumer and award  compensation to 
reflect whats happened. We wont normally award  compensation  because  a business has 
made an error unless  the mistake unfairly impacts the consumer. 
I think its reasonable to say that Clydesdales errors were minor and administrative in 
nature. I appreciate  Mr C contacted Clydesdale to complain  about receiving marketing 
communications but that issue was resolved. Ive seen systems evidence  to show marketing  
correspondence has been supressed. And Im not persuaded that contacting Clydesdale to 
raise a complaint  is grounds to award compensation.  
Ref: DRN11501922Whilst I appreciate Mr C did have to contact the business about what happened, Im satisfied 
that Clydesdales apology fairly  reflects the impact of its errors on him. Ive not been 
persuaded it would be fair to tell Clydesdale  to pay compensation  here so Im not telling it to 
take any further action.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1150192