K821x#15complaint
Ms D thinks  Kensington  Mortgage Company Limited  took too long to provide a mortgage 
redemption statement, delaying her re-mortgage  to another lender. So it should refund the 
additional interest shes paid, plus compensation.
background
Ms D lives overseas, but owns  a property in the UK, which  she purchased  with a mortgage 
from Kensington. In August 2017,  Ms L decided  to re-mortgage her UK property to another  
lender E, which is based in a third country.  To enable the re-mortgage to take place, Ms D 
asked Kensington  for a redemption statement. Both she and representatives from E had 
difficulty communicating with Kensington which doesnt accept instructions for such matters 
by email. So the re-mortgage  didnt  complete until August 2018, which was later than Ms D 
had hoped. 
Ms D had stopped  making her mortgage  payments, believing the re-mortgage was imminent,  
so she got into arrears. Kensington apologised to Ms D for the delays and communication 
issues, and offered her £300 for the trouble and upset shed experienced. As E offered a 
lower rate of interest, Ms D thought Kensington should pay her the additional interest she 
paid from when she first wanted  to re-mortgage to when it finally happened. So she 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into four issues   the delay in providing the redemption statement, 
releasing the title deeds, the arrears,  and the overall customer  service. She upheld some 
complaint points and thought Kensington should  pay the difference in interest charged  
between 24 May and 26 June 2018.  But she thought  the £300 Kensington had offered for 
the trouble and upset was fair. Kensington agreed  and asked for evidence  of Ms Ds new 
interest rate with E, and the mortgage  balance so it could calculate  the additional interest. 
Without evidence,  Kensington said it would pay £75. 
Ms D disagreed with our investigators  view  she thought the interest  should  be refunded for 
the whole  period, and the compensation  increased  to £500. On receipt  of evidence of the 
interest rate and mortgage balance Kensington confirmed it was willing to pay Ms D the 
extra interest shed  paid, which it calculated to be £1,444.10, in addition  to the £300.
Ms D didnt think this was enough so asked an ombudsman to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint..  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as our investigator.  Let me explain why. 
I understand Ms Ds frustration at the obstacles shes faced  when dealing  with Kensington. 
She travels extensively for work and is based in a different country  from both Kensington 
and her new lender  E, so email communication is convenient for her. Letters  take a long time 
and shes not always in the right place to receive them. Theres  also a time difference  so 
phoning isnt always practical, especially if calls are held in a queue.  Ms D finds  
Kensingtons automated telephone system  isnt designed for overseas callers,  and I 
understand she failed the telephone  security  process on occasions. 
Ref: DRN18374402In addition E and its legal representatives only had Kensingtons general enquiries number 
rather than a direct line, so they found it difficult to speak to the right person. I can see 
Kensington initially offered Ms D £100  for the communication difficulties which  she didnt 
accept. But on the other  hand, I think its reasonable for Kensington to ensure its acting on 
its customers instructions. And I understand  why it wouldnt  accept instructions from E or its 
solicitors, without Ms Ds express authorisation. 
delays in providing the redemption statement and deed, and overall  service
Ive looked carefully  at the evidence provided by both parties and Id comment its difficult to 
verify the dates of some of the emails and faxes  between the parties,  as they just show  the 
date they were received by this service  rather than the original date. So Ive pieced together  
the timeline of events  as well as possible. But like our investigator Ive not seen anything  to 
support Ms Ds claim  shes  been  trying to obtain  her deeds from Kensington since  2017.
As far as I can establish, Ms D advised  Kensington by email on 19 February 2018 she would 
soon be re-mortgaging to E. A redemption statement was produced but Kensington needed 
written authority to liaise with E. So it wrote  to Ms D on 21 February asking for its third party 
authority form to be completed. On 28 February E requested an update; so on 5 March 
Kensington explained Ms D hadnt returned the completed third party form. Ms D phoned 
Kensington on 7 March  2018 to give her verbal  authority  that from then on E would be acting 
on her behalf to progress  the re-mortgage.  E approved Ms Ds loan on 12 March 2018  and 
asked for the redemption  statement to be faxed. Ms D chased and was told Kensington was 
still awaiting  her written  instructions. Notes show Kensington had Ms Ds authority  to deal 
with her accountants, but not E or its legal representatives. 
Ms D chased again on 4 April and was told Kensington had sent the redemption  statement 
by fax and trackable special delivery  post to E on 26 March 2018. Although it appears the 
statement was faxed  correctly E didnt receive  it, so on 24 May 2018 it made a further 
request on its headed paper for the redemption statement and the title deeds. Kensington 
faxed the statement to E on 29 May 2018,  but I can see the deeds request was delayed. 
This is partly because Kensington hadnt told E it needed confirmation from Ms D, and also 
its reluctance to send them to Es overseas address (in a different country to Ms D). This 
was discussed  in a conference call with Ms D on 28 June who confirmed Es international 
fax number, although this solution  required management  approval. The deeds  were faxed to 
E on 4 July. Es solicitors told Kensington they were hoping to complete in the week of 6 
August, and the re-mortgage finally completed  on 17 August 2018. The further  delay was 
because the original redemption statement had expired,  negotiations  over the redemption 
figure due to arrears  and because Kensington needed authority to liaise  with Es solicitors. 
I can see Ms D found the whole process  frustrating due to the communication and 
authorisation difficulties.  Whilst she may have assumed her email was enough,  Kensington 
needed to ensure it was acting on genuine instructions. And this wasnt confirmed until 
26 March when the statement was faxed and posted. I think  obtaining Ms Ds authorisation 
enabling Kensington to deal with both E and its solicitors could have  been  resolved earlier. 
But I understand Kensingtons caution  in not assuming Ms Ds authorisation of E also 
covered any third party. 
This was a complex  transaction relating to a UK property, requiring a UK business to deal 
with a customer and new lender based in two separate  overseas countries. While  the 
re-mortgage took several months, I think there were understandable reasons for this, and I 
dont find Kensington solely responsible for the time it took.  Once the correct authorisation 
Ref: DRN18374403was in place I dont think the delays  were excessive, and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Kensington deliberately obstructed the re-mortgage to benefit  from additional  interest. So I 
think £300 for the customer service issues is fair. 
Our investigator thought Kensington couldve provided the deeds sooner than it did, if it had 
explained on 24 May it needed Ms Ds authorisation. So they thought  it should  pay Ms D the 
additional interest charged  by Kensington between 24 May and 28 June  when she gave her 
verbal authority.  In the course of this complaint Kensington agreed  to refund Ms D 
£1,444.10, being the additional interest  she paid during that period, based on the Es rate of 
3.18% on a balance of just under £545,000.  This is less than the re-mortgage  amount 
because E only charges  interest on the net balance of Ms Ds assets and liabilities. I 
appreciate Ms D feels Kensington should refund the interest right up until the re-mortgage 
completed, but for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont  find Kensington solely  responsible for 
the further delays.  So I think the redress proposed  by Kensington is fair. 
arrears
Ms D was told she was in arrears on 11 July 2018. She said shed been advised  to stop 
making payments  to the mortgage three  months  previously, as the re-mortgage was 
expected to be imminent. Ms D hasnt  clarified  who advised her to stop paying, and Ive seen 
no evidence that she was. The redemption statement says Please make sure that you 
continue to make your monthly mortgage  payments until you have paid off the mortgage  in 
full. So I think its unlikely  Kensington would have verbally advised Ms D to stop paying. And 
if another party, such as her new lender  E or her solicitors gave her this advice, (and Ive 
seen no evidence they did), thats  not something  I can reasonably hold Kensington 
responsible for. 
I appreciate Ms D was unhappy that field agents visited her UK address about her arrears 
when Kensington  was aware shes not based  there. I think a visit to the mortgaged  property  
is standard procedure  to pursue arrears,  and I dont think the visit itself had a detrimental  
impact on her. Arrears  letters were  sent to Ms Ds overseas address in July 2018.  And as 
the arrears were genuine, Kensington had the right to make  contact with their customer  
about the outstanding  debt. So Im not going  to ask Kensington to compensate her for that. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. 
To put things right, Kensington  Mortgage  Company Limited should  pay Ms D £1,444.10 in 
respect of the additional interest  she paid for the period 24 May to 28 June 2018. 
In addition, to reflect the inconvenience  of being  deprived of that benefit, it should add 
interest at 8% simple  to this figure from 28 June 2018 to the date of payment.
And it should pay £300 in respect of the delays and customer service  issues she 
experienced, in line with its offer.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Ref: DRN18374404Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1837440