K821x#15complaint
Miss S is unhappy with how London  General Insurance Company Limited (London  General) 
handled a claim  for her faulty television under her added care policy.
Miss S bought  the policy  through a retailer and London General has used a third party to 
administer the policy. But for ease anything  the retailer or third party has said will be referred 
to as London General.
background
In September  2018 Miss Ss television became faulty so she made a claim on her added 
care policy.  
In October  2018 the repair of the television was arranged.  But the engineer  appointments 
were cancelled on three separate occasions.  Miss S said she was no longer happy to wait 
for a repair,  so she made enquiries as to what other  options were available  to her.
London General  says it couldnt offer a replacement television as there was no like-for-like 
model available.  The closest match  was deemed  as a significant upgrade from what  Miss S 
had and London General  decided to make an offer of a cash settlement.
Miss S is unhappy with the handling  of the claim and the offer made. She says the cash 
settlement puts her in a worse position  than if the repair had gone ahead and she has now 
purchased a television with a lower  specification than her previous television. 
London General  said it would pay Miss S the original purchase  price of £529  for the 
television and £50 compensation for the difficulties encountered in having  an engineer visit.
Our investigator agreed that London General should  pay the original purchase price for the 
television but he thought the compensation should be increased  by a further £100 to £150 in 
total to reflect the problems encountered  with the engineers visits and lack of clear 
communication during the claim.
Miss S accepted  our investigators opinion but London General didnt. It thinks  the 
compensation is excessive. It also said the added care policy is first and foremost  a repair  
plan and it had started  the replacement/settlement process due to the difficulties Miss S had 
experienced and not because a repair couldnt be successfully  completed. So the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint, for 
largely the same reasons  as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, it says:
If your product suffers .accidental damage, we will repair  your product where possible. If 
your product  is uneconomical to repair we will provide you with a replacement of the same  
make and model. Where  the same make  and model is not available the replacement  will be 
Ref: DRN13524122of a similar specification. Where a replacement is not available  we will contact you to discuss 
alternative settlement.
When Miss S first reported the faulty television,  London General said it could be repaired 
and so ordered the relevant replacement part and organised an engineer to attend.  As both 
parties are already  fully aware of the reasons why the engineer visits were cancelled  on 
three different occasions, Ill not reiterate  them again.
Miss S told London General she was no longer happy to wait for a repair and wanted the 
claim settled  differently, I dont think this was unreasonable considering  Miss S had waited 
several weeks for a repair without  success. She had waited  in on three days  for engineers  to 
arrive and had to use some of her annual  leave in order to be available. And Miss S had 
already told London General after being  let down on two occasions  that shed lost faith in the 
repair company it was using and had asked it to use a different company  it declined  to do 
this as the replacement part had already been  ordered.
Because Miss S had enough of waiting, London General decided  the television was now 
beyond economical  repair and it looked  to offer a replacement television. It later informed  
Miss S that it couldnt offer a replacement as there  were no like-for-like  televisions available  
and the next model up was deemed to be a significant upgrade.  And so it offered Miss S an 
alternative settlement  of £529, which was the original purchase  price of the television.
Miss S has said she doesnt feel she was properly informed about what the alternative 
settlement would be  as she was under the impression shed get a replacement television 
when she declined the repair and that is what she was happy to accept. She says she also 
feels that the option to repair the television was removed all together  as she thinks London 
General didnt want to have to re-order the part with a different repair  company.
There is very limited information  on what information  was given to Miss S during the claim. 
But Ive no reason to disbelieve  what Miss S has told us. London General says this policy  is 
first and foremost a repair plan.  But I think  that once London General had deemed the 
television beyond economical  repair the option to have it repaired  seems to have been 
removed from Miss S. While I dont think thats unreasonable, Im not satisfied that Miss S 
was made  aware  of what would happen  if a replacement television wasnt  available. So from 
what Ive seen clear options  werent given to Miss S at the outset. And I also think  Miss S 
wouldve waited for a repair if shed known the television wasnt  going to be replaced.
I understand London General has considered its compensation offer for the failed engineers 
visits but I think it couldve been  much clearer in its communication with Miss S and it should  
increase the compensation from £50 to £150  for the trouble and upset this has caused 
Miss S.
Ref: DRN13524123my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold this complaint against London General 
Insurance Company Limited  and instruct it to:
Pay £529 (original price of the television) as per the agreed alternative  settlement.
Pay £150 compensation for the trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1352412