K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card.
background
The policy was added  to Miss Cs credit card account when she applied  for the card online 
via the EGG website  in September 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss Cs main concern  is that she says she wouldve  never knowingly taken out PPI as she 
had other  means  she couldve relied  on. Miss C believes that EGG added PPI to her account 
without her knowledge or consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Miss C aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Miss C completed, she had to select the Yes option  to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. Her application  could only proceed after shed  filled in one 
of these options. So I think shed have known  at the time that she couldve declined PPI if 
she hadnt wanted it. Its completely understandable that she mightve forgotten  some  of 
these details so long after the event.  But, on balance,  I find that Miss C knew  she had a 
choice about protecting  her card repayments.  And I think EGG added PPI to Miss Cs 
account at her request when she indicated she wanted to have PPI. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt  have to check if it was suitable  for her. 
Its possible some of the information  Egg gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, next to where Miss C was asked to decide  about the PPI, the cover 
was broadly described, the cost was set out and there was information about  the benefits  
PPI offered.  I think Miss C couldve  have  benefitted  from having  the policy. 
Ive taken into account that Miss C told she wouldve had very good sick pay  but that 
doesnt mean that she couldnt have benefitted from having PPI. Miss C cant now tell us 
exactly how much sick pay she wouldve been  paid or for how long. The policy  wouldve  paid 
out for up to 12 months on top of any sick pay. I dont think its likely that Miss C wouldve 
been contractually entitled to receive 12 months full sick pay from her employer as that 
would be quite unusual   even working  for a solicitor.  Bearing in mind  that Miss C mightve 
also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled, I think 
PPI couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And in addition to covering her if she was off work sick, the policy wouldve also protected 
Miss Cs credit card repayments if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.
Ref: DRN13758692Relying on family to help out in the event of money  problems  isnt as dependable as taking 
out PPI as everyones circumstances  can change unexpectedly. And Miss C hasnt given us 
details of any other means she couldve depended on if she wasnt  able to work. So I can 
see why she mightve  wanted  to have PPI. Having PPI wouldve meant Miss C could be sure 
shed be able to more than cover her Egg card monthly repayments  whatever her 
circumstances.
Miss C was eligible  for the policy. There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Miss Cs case.  So, I dont think having  more information 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve affected her decision to take it out. PPI provided  
Miss C with the protection broadly described  on the website which  shed indicated  she was 
willing to pay for. 
I think EGG  couldve  explained the policy  cost better  than it did. But, looked at overall, given 
the benefits PPI offered Miss C, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have  taken out the policy.  
This means  that, even though EGG  mightnt have done everything it shouldve  done, I dont 
find that Miss C lost out because of anything EGG did wrong. So it doesnt  need to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1375869