K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that she was mis-sold a number of insurance policies when she entered into 
an agreement with FCE Bank Plc.
background
In September  2016 Ms A was supplied with car and entered into a hire purchase with FCE. 
Ms A says that at the time of entering into the agreement  she was pressurised  into 
purchasing various  insurance policies including tyre cover, alloy wheel cover, service cover 
and GAP insurance. The total cost for all these policies was £1,143.99 as shown on the 
sales invoice.
Ms A is unhappy because  she wanted to make  a claim on the tyre insurance  policy  but she 
hasnt been provided with any policy documents.  She says the dealership where  she 
purchased the car and the policies has closed down and her efforts  to locate the policies 
have been unsuccessful.  She felt that the policies  had been mis-sold  and complained to 
FCE. Ms A is also unhappy  about  the cost of the car, which  she feels  was overpriced.
In response FCE said the policies  were not financed  by them  and it was unable  to assist.  It 
said the cost of the car was clearly  stated in the finance agreement which had been signed 
by Ms A.
Ms A was unhappy  with FCEs response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the policies werent included under the 
finance so FCE couldnt  be held responsible for them. He also said there was no evidence 
that Ms A had been pressured into entering into the finance agreement  and that the costs  
were clearly set out in the agreement.
Ms A didnt agree. She said shed purchased the policies for peace  of mind and she felt that 
FCE had failed to honour  her claim under the tyre policy when she needed  it. She didnt 
think it was fair that shed  paid for a policy which was of no benefit  to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the vehicle  invoice. This shows that Ms A purchased extras including alloy 
wheel cover, cosmetic  cover, GAP  insurance and tyre cover.
Ms A has said that she was pressurised into purchasing these polices. But shes also said 
that she purchased  the policies for peace of mind.  I havent been provided with any evidence  
which suggests that the dealership pressurised Ms A in any way. I appreciate that Ms A is 
unhappy that she hasnt been provided  with certificates  for the policies. However, if Ms A 
was concerned that shed been pressurised into buying the polices, I think  she wouldve 
raised these concerns much earlier on in the agreement.
Ive looked at the hire purchase  agreement  including the terms and conditions. None of the 
policies  including the tyre policy  have been  financed by FCE. The policies have been 
Ref: DRN15758502paid for separately  by Ms A. Because of this, FCE arent responsible  for the policies and Im 
unable to ask it to do anything about  them.
Ive taken account of what  Ms A has said about  feeling pressurised into entering  into the 
agreement. As Ive said above in relation to the policies, I havent  been provided with any 
evidence which suggests that the dealership  pressurised Ms A. I can see that all of the key 
information about the agreement was provided  to Ms a and Im satisfied  that as a result of 
this information,  Ms A knew the price  of the car, the rate of interest, the monthly  repayment,  
the term and the total amount repayable.
I cant see that Ms A raised any concerns about  the agreement at the time of entering into it. 
If Ms A had been unhappy about the cost of the car, she couldve exercised her right to 
cancel. Theres no evidence that she tried to do this.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im unable to ask FCE to do anything  in relation to the tyre policy 
or any of the other policies. These policies arent financed by FCE. Im not persuaded that 
Ms A was pressured  into entering into the agreement because theres no evidence to 
support this.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1575850