K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that when their Nationwide  Building Society fixed  term e-bond 
matured they didnt receive a reminder  to reinvest  the money and it was parked in a current  
account paying very little interest. They say Nationwide shouldve  sent further reminders and 
have a policy to automatically reinvest the money  in a similar product. They want 
compensating for the thousands  of pounds interest theyve lost.
background
Nationwide said in its final response that when  the money from the matured e-bond wasnt 
reinvested by Mr and Mrs G it was placed  in an account  paying  0.1%  interest. The terms and 
conditions of the e-bond say that on maturity  the balance will automatically be converted into 
an e-bond maturity account  and will earn interest  at the rate applying  to its e-savings 
account. The terms also say Nationwide will contact them  by email with more  information 
before the e-bond matures. But as it isnt able to evidence this email was sent it has offered 
£75 compensation.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept this offer saying  it was derisory.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
Mr and Mrs G had held the e-bond savings account from 2011. It matured in 
September 2016 and as no contact was made  with Nationwide  it automatically 
converted the account into a savings  maturity account. Mr G is unhappy about this as 
he says he wasnt told the bond  was maturing  and a year later they were  only paid 
around £644 interest which  was considerably less than the £16,210  they received a 
year earlier.
The accounts terms and conditions show that the account was correctly converted  
by Nationwide  into a savings maturity account. But it hasnt been able to show it sent 
out an email before  the bond  matured as was also required by the terms although 
Nationwide says they wouldve received one. So, it isnt possible  to say Nationwide  
acted in line with the accounts term in this regard.
Even so as the account had been  held since 2011, Mr G shouldve been  reasonably  
aware of the maturity  process and date.  And as hed reinvested the money  a few 
times before he shouldve done  more to ensure  this happened  again particularly 
given the big difference  in the interest  rates. It also took him over a year to query  
whatd happened  and he wasnt proactive in managing the account.
Nationwide has accepted it cant evidence it met the terms and conditions  of the 
account and has offered £75 compensation. But its fair and reasonable for this to be 
increased by another £75.
Ref: DRN14802852Mr G remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says 
Nationwide didnt follow its stated  policy  to contact them before the bond matured. He was 
unaware he needed to take action. It has admitted liability and therefore  the issue is just one 
of the amount of compensation. A total of £150 compensation is derisory. He wants  full 
redress of the interest that wouldve been  earned  in an equivalent account  on a rollover  
basis. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the account require Nationwide  to send Mr and Mrs G an email  
before the bond matured. Nationwide says it wouldve done so but unfortunately it cannot 
evidence the email was sent. It isnt therefore clear that Nationwide complied with the 
accounts terms and conditions. Although theres also the possibility it was sent and wasnt 
seen by Mr G or, as he has said isnt uncommon,  it mightve ended  up in his spam and been 
automatically deleted.  We will never  know.
Its fair for Nationwide  to pay some compensation to reflect the fact it cannot evidence  
sending the email. Mr G would like it to pay him the difference between  the £644 interest 
they received  on the money and the roughly £16,210 they mightve received if itd been 
reinvested in a similar e-bond product.
I understand Mr Gs frustration at what has happened and his desire to be paid significant 
compensation. But I have to take into account  his obligation to mitigate  any loss. 
In this case I think that includes taking steps to monitor the investment and actively seek  to 
reinvest it on the best terms  available. Mr G had actively run the account and invested  in e-
bonds for some years and he wouldve been aware  of how the process worked particularly  
as Ive seen nothing to suggest  automatic reinvestment was ever a feature of the e-bonds 
and account. When the e-bond  was taken out he would also have  been  made  aware of its 
maturity date, terms and conditions, including the need to reinvest the money  and to expect 
an email before the maturity date. And as he was aware of emails going  into his spam  it 
mightve also been expected he would keep an eye out there for any from Nationwide.
On balance I think it shouldve been reasonably apparent to Mr G that the maturity date of 
the e-bond was approaching, that he hadnt received an email from Nationwide and that he 
therefore needed in a timely way to do more to find out what was happening and what  he 
needed to do. And I dont think Mr G has shown he reasonably mitigated any loss he and 
Mrs G have suffered.
I accept that Nationwides inability to provide proof it sent an email  will have caused  some 
distress and inconvenience which warrants a payment of some  compensation. Taking  
everything into account, including the level of awards we make, I think  a total of £150 for this 
is fair. 
But given everything that has happened I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require 
Nationwide to pay more  than this or to make up the amount of interest paid from £644 to 
many thousands of pounds as Mr G would like. 
Ref: DRN14802853Mr G has also said Nationwide  should have an automated reinvestment policy and shouldve 
sent more reminders.  But we arent  a regulator and cant require it change  its processes and 
procedures.
Overall I dont see a compelling  reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Nationwide Building  Society  should,  if it hasnt  
done so already, pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £150 compensation.
Nationwide must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it Mr and 
Mrs G accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Nationwide  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1480285