K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) provided him with incorrect
account details  when he opened  an account, and failed to help him over a period of months 
when he was unable  to access his account.  
Mr D wants to be compensated for his lost income  and the distress  and inconvenience  he 
experienced while he was without access to his account.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional view, in a provisional decision 
issued in December  2019. A copy of that decision  is attached. 
In that decision,  I explained why I felt that NatWest ought to increase its offer of 
compensation to Mr D, from £230 to £500 for his distress and inconvenience. 
That provisional decision was shared  with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
NatWest initially disagreed with the view and indicated that further evidence may be 
submitted. This evidence  has not subsequently been produced and NatWest now accepts 
my provisional view. 
Mr D does not accept  my view and has feels that the compensation is too low. He feels that 
he lost approximately  £10,000 because of the issue and thinks  that this should be 
compensated by NatWest. 
Mr D has sent in evidence  of his family members health during the period, evidence  of a 
high interest loan which he took on and further  submissions explaining his feelings  about the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr D feels very strongly  about this complaint,  and that he considers that he 
has suffered substantial costs due to not being  able to access  his account for the period 
October 2018  March  2019. 
I appreciate that view and took into account, in my provisional decision,  that he was caused 
substantial distress and inconvenience for an extended period. 
Mr D wants compensation for his financial losses, but has not been able to provide evidence 
of income that was lost due to the mistake, beyond the email  chain  showing  the breakdown 
of one work relationship. He has provided evidence that he had to take on a loan, but I do 
not consider that this is a consequence of NatWests error.  
I accept that Mr D was caused inconvenience, but as I set out in my provisional view, if Mr 
Ds various employers  decided to break their commitments to pay him this is not something 
Ref: DRN10258622that NatWest is responsible for, and Mr D would need to address his pay disputes directly 
with those who have  refused  to pay him. 
As a result, I have not seen evidence or arguments  which alter my view from that set out in 
my provisional view. 
I therefore adopt my provisional view and reasoning, as supplemented by this decision,  as 
my final decision. 
I understand that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr D, but I hope  that it explains why I 
have reached it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  and above,  I uphold Mr Ds complaint and 
direct National  Westminster Bank  Plc to pay to Mr D a total of £500 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1025862