K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about Bank of Scotland Plcs decision to reduce his credit limit and about its 
process for doing  so. He also complains that he received poor customer service.
To settle  matters hed like his credit limit reinstating and compensation for the phone calls he 
made to the bank  and for the costs he incurred obtaining alternative funding.
background 
Mr F told us that whilst he was abroad  in September 2018, Halifax  sent him a text to tell him 
it was reducing his credit limit on his credit card from £4,000  to £1,200.  This was confirmed 
by letter.  The letter said that Halifax had reviewed the way he was using  his card and it 
had asked  for some  information from a credit reference agency Ill refer to as T. The letter 
also said that Halifax thought he might find it difficult to repay the amount he was borrowing.
His credit  limit was later reduced again  from £1,200 to £1,100.
Mr F says he was relying on his fee-free  credit card to pay for things whilst he was abroad. 
And he told us hed incurred £300 of charges obtaining cash, wire transfers and fees for 
using other  credit cards due to his credit  card limit being decreased.
After he received the text he says he phoned Halifax  whilst he was abroad to complaint. He 
was told that it was T whod told Halifax to reduce his credit limit. He raised a formal  
complaint with Halifax but he says it didnt provide a detailed answer and no one rang him 
back to discuss his complaint as hed been  promised.
In its final response letter  Halifax said it was entitled  to reduce his credit limit. With regard to 
the phone  call not being returned, it said it had explained to Mr F at the time that it couldnt 
guarantee a call back within Mr Fs preferred hours. It apologised for giving Mr F different 
reasons about  why his credit limit had been  reduced  and it offered  £50 compensation, which 
Mr F refused. It also agreed to reimburse  the costs of the phone  calls he made  to Halifax.
When our adjudicator investigated Mr Fs complaint  they didnt recommend it should  be 
upheld. Although the reduction in credit  limit put him in a difficult position our adjudicator 
noted that the terms and conditions of Mr Fs credit  card account  allowed Halifax  to change 
his credit limit at any time so they didnt think Halifax was liable for any additional  costs  he 
incurred trying to obtain funds whilst  he was abroad.
In terms of Mr F receiving varying  accounts about the reasons for the credit limit reduction,  
our adjudicator explained that following a monthly  report Halifax  received from T, this 
prompted Halifax to review his account. Based on the information  it received, it took the 
decision to reduce his credit limit. Although Mr F had been given different reasons about why 
his credit limit was reduced, he thought Halifaxs offer of £50 and reimbursement of call 
costs was fair and reasonable.
Mr F disagrees with the adjudicators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN17568322Mr F told us he was abroad when he received Halifaxs  text message telling him his credit  
limit was being reduced. I realise  this might have  put him in a difficult position  as he told us 
hed planned  to use his credit card and existing credit limit to fund his expenditure whilst he 
was abroad but I cant say it was wrong  of Halifax to reduce his credit limit because  the 
terms and conditions allowed it to do so.
Section B1 says: We can change  your credit limit at any time and it also says,  We may 
decrease your credit  limit. Section  B8 explains in more detail when we may make  this 
change and how we will tell you about it.
Section B8 allows Halifax to make changes if we think  there is an increased likelihood that 
you will not be able to pay us what you owe on time.  This may be because of things  that are 
personal to you such as ifwe are told by credit reference agencies  about changes in 
your financial  status .
When Mr F phoned  Halifax  from abroad  to find out why his credit limit had been reduced he 
was initially told that Halifax  was told to do so by T. This wasnt  the case. Halifax  explained  
that it took the decision to reduce Mr Fs credit limit following  a regular update  from T about 
the way Mr F was managing his debt. The information it received from T prompted  Halifax  to 
review his credit limit and based on the information  provided by T it made a decision to 
reduce Mr Fs credit limit taking into account  its duty to lend responsibly.
Mr F is unhappy  that Halifax is allowed to amend his credit  limit based  on information  
provided by credit reference agencies. He thinks he should be able to challenge such  a 
decision or appeal  it. I appreciate his concerns but I agree  with the adjudicator  that it 
wouldnt be practical for financial businesses to do this.
Its standard practice  for providers of credit to receive regular updates from credit reference 
agencies about  how a customer is managing their debt. And I cant say it was wrong of 
Halifax to rely on information provided to it by credit  reference agencies  to make  a 
commercial decision to reduce Mr Fs credit  limit.
Mr F says the information T provided to Halifax - and on which  Halifax  made its decision to 
reduce his credit limit - was incorrect. Hes explained to us why this is the case. I dont have 
any reason to doubt what he says but I think Halifax was entitled to rely in good faith on the 
information provided to it by T without having to verify the accuracy of the information.  I can 
see that Halifax has explained that Mr F can apply for a manual review  of his credit  limit 
should he wish,  but this will be recorded on his credit file so I think Halifax  has acted fairly 
here and it is for Mr F to decide if he wishes to do this.
For the reasons  Ive explained above Halifax  was entitled to reduce Mr Fs credit  limit at any 
time so I cant find that its liable  for any additional  costs  Mr F incurred  trying to obtain funds  
from other sources when Halifax reduced his credit  limit. I think  the £50 compensation offered 
by Halifax together  with its offer to reimburse  the costs of Mr Fs phone  calls is fair and 
reasonable to reflect  the inconvenience caused to him as a result of Halifax providing 
different reasons for his credit limit reduction.
my final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons stated I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN17568323Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1756832