K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Covea  Insurance plcs actions in cancelling his motor  insurance 
policy.
Reference to Covea includes its agents.
background
Mr M bought  a policy from Covea. A friend used their card to pay for it on Mr Ms behalf.  
Some months later police stopped Mr M while he was driving. They  told him he wasn't 
insured. When he queried this with Covea it told him it had cancelled his policy some months 
earlier. It said it had told him about the cancellation  by email and also by recorded delivery 
post. Mr M said he hadn't received  either  notification and the police were  prosecuting  him for 
driving while uninsured.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 September 2020. For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.   
Coveas told Mr M it had concerns around fraudulent activity on the card used  to pay for his 
policy. It didn't say that Mr M didn't have permission to use the card.  But, because of its 
concerns that the same  card had been  used  to buy three different policies for different 
people in a short space of time, it decided to cancel his policy.  This is something the policy  
allows Covea to do. And Im aware that fraud is a huge concern for the UK insurance 
industry as its estimated  to cost it many  hundreds  of millions  of pounds every  year.  So, if 
Covea has concerns about fraudulent  activity  linked to a card used to buy policies, I think  its 
reasonable for it to cancel those policies,  as long as it lets its policyholders know  what its 
done.
Mr Ms policy said that if Covea decided to cancel it, then it would write to him to let him 
know it intended to do so. Coveas shown us evidence it wrote to Mr M to let him know  it 
intended to cancel the policy.  It used  two different methods to do so: by email  and by 
recorded delivery post. 
Mr M said hes checked his junk mail but he didn't receive the email.  Coveas shown us the 
email it sent to Mr M. And having seen  that there's no doubt that Covea used the correct  
email address; so its not clear why Mr M didn't  receive  it. 
Covea also sent Mr M the cancellation letter by recorded delivery to his home  address.  Its 
given us evidence  the letter was delivered  and signed for. Mr M said the signature on the 
receipt slip for the letter isn't his. He added he would have been  at work at the time the letter 
was delivered. He also pointed out that theres a single letter missing from the name of the 
road in his address on the letter. 
I don't think the mis-spelled address should  have  prevented the postal  service  from 
delivering the letter to the correct address. Thats because the door number and postcode 
are correct; those details alone  should be enough  to identify the correct  address. I 
understand that if Mr M was at work when the letter was delivered then he can't have 
Ref: DRN14745052personally signed for it, which  would explain why the signature on the receipt  slip isn't his. 
But I find the evidence  from the post office  that the letter  was delivered and signed for 
persuasive that it did reach Mr Ms address. And its certainly very unfortunate for Mr M that 
he didn't see it. But given that Covea  had used two different  methods to let Mr M know it was 
going to cancel his policy, I don't think it would have realised he hadn't  seen its letter. 
Mr M also said Coveas cancellation letter quoted  incorrect policy  and registration  numbers.  
If Mr M had received the letter at the time I can understand  he might have found those errors 
confusing. I can also understand  why he might think they meant Covea had made  a mistake 
in cancelling his policy. And its certainly far from ideal that Covea would have included 
incorrect information in what  was an important letter. But Mr M didn't receive it at the time. 
He says he only saw it after hed been stopped by the police.  So Coveas mistakes didn't 
lead to Mr M continuing to drive  while uninsured.  And as I've said above  I don't think Covea 
could have known  Mr M hadn't received its letter. I think it made  reasonable attempts to let 
him know it was going to cancel his policy. It follows I don't think  it's Coveas fault that Mr M 
didn't see the cancellation  letter or that he was stopped for driving without insurance as a 
result. 
That said,  having cancelled  the policy Covea didn't return any of Mr Ms premium, even 
though it was no longer providing cover. Mr Ms policy  says that where Covea cancels a 
policy because of fraud then it may keep the full premium. But in this instance the fraudulent  
activity Covea is concerned with was connected  with Mr Ms friends card and not the actions 
of Mr M himself.  And while I think it was reasonable for it to cancel the policy I don't think  it 
was fair that it kept the full premium. So, in order to put things right,  I think  it should refund 
Mr Ms premium  for the period he wasn't covered after Covea cancelled the policy.  It should 
add simple interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date it cancelled  the policy  
to the date it refunds him. Also, Im aware  that Coveas errors with its cancellation letter and 
its delay in refunding  Mr Ms premium  have been a source of distress  and inconvenience  for 
him, so to address that it should pay him £200 compensation.
developments
Mr M didn't reply  to my provisional  decision.  Covea said it had already identified that it 
should refund Mr Ms premium. It also agreed that some compensation was due for 
withholding  the premium  previously. But it said it couldn't see how the errors in its 
cancellation letter, which  Mr M said he didn't initially receive, had caused Mr M any distress.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to partly uphold  
it. 
Covea has, for the most part, accepted my provisional decision. But its said it couldn't  see 
how the errors in its cancellation letter caused  Mr M any distress  or inconvenience. Mr M 
described the errors as major. And even if I accepted that those errors didn't cause him 
distress and inconvenience, I would still feel that Covea's decision to unfairly withhold his 
premium while essentially accusing him of being involved in fraudulent activity merited 
compensation. And I think £200  is a reasonable sum in the circumstances, as it's in line with 
Ref: DRN14745053awards we make in cases of similar seriousness.  It follows that I don't intend to change my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Covea Insurance plc 
to:
 Make  a refund of premium equal to the proportion of the cover  Mr M didn't use 
following Coveas cancellation of the policy. 
 Pay Mr M £200 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1474505