K820x#14complaint
Mr E says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr E bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr E applied for his credit card and PPI  Mr E cant 
remember, and HSBCs doesnt know. 
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a bus driver. He has told us he was entitled to six 
months full sick pay and he said he was entitled  to redundancy pay of twice his annual 
salary. Mr E said he didnt have any other means of repaying his credit card should  he be 
unable to work, and he has said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
While Mr E says he wouldve been entitled  to redundancy pay of twice his annual  salary, Im 
mindful that he has also said hed been  in his job for four months  at the time of sale. So 
given his tenure,  I think its likely Mr Es redundancy entitlement  was considerably  less than 
he remembers.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Es credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 71 pence per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account  closed before 2005  it 
has no record of Mr Es credit card account  beyond this date.
Mr Es representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Es representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr E wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Es representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr E about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN10732162The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr E and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr E received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  before 2005. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN10732163The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Es case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr E with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr E sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to [his/her] attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way 
 the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr E, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr E suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN10732164Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr E and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr E know he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Neither HSBC nor Mr E can now say how the credit  card and PPI were taken out  whether 
it was done in-branch  or via postal application for example. And this isnt surprising  the 
sale took place  many years ago and the account  has been closed for more  than 10 years. 
Mr E has said he doesnt remember being  advised  to take out PPI, so this might suggest it 
was a paper-based application  perhaps done via the post.
HSBC has provided  an example  postal credit card application, and this shows that a 
customer had to indicate whether they wanted PPI or not by ticking  one of two equally 
prominent boxes   Yes  or No  in a separate section headed  Cardholder  Repayment 
Protector.
So taking everything into account  and in the absence of persuasive evidence that Mr E 
saw something very different when he took out his credit card and PPI - I think  its more  
likely that Mr E knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure. But I can understand why Mr E cant remember doing so. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
As I said above, Mr E says HSBC didnt provide advice during this sale. And while HSBC 
doesnt know whether  this was an advised  sale or not, on the basis that Ive not seen 
anything which contradicts Mr Es testimony,  Im not persuaded that HSBC provided advice 
in this case.
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr E. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr E to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Other than the example  credit card application  I referred to above, HSBC has referred us to 
what it says is the earliest available policy document  setting out the likely terms and 
conditions of Mr Es policy. 
Ive reviewed several policy documents from around the time of the sale and having done so 
I accept - on a balance of probabilities  that the terms and conditions HSBC has referred to 
applied to policies  like Mr Es. 
Looking at the information likely provided to Mr E at the time,  I dont  think HSBC gave Mr E 
the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN10732165Ive already said that its not known how this sale came about, so I dont know  what 
information Mr E was provided  with at the time.  I think its unlikely Mr E would  have agreed  to 
take it out without  at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, 
disability and unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr E would have thought  it was 
free.
But it was HSBCs responsibility  to draw to Mr Es attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded it is likely that HSBC did enough to do this. For example, I dont think the 
true cost of the policy wouldve been made clear to Mr E, including  the need to maintain 
premiums during a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, the 
available evidence doesnt show that HSBC  adequately drew to his attention the main  
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think its likely  HSBC gave Mr E sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Es representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Es. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Es representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr E about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Es representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr E has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr E? To what extent did Mr E suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN10732166Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr E. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr E suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr E would have still 
taken out the policy,  had HSBC done  things properly. 
Mr E says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr E had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr E chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr E thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr E has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr E ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   I 
think its likely this wouldve been  set out on the relevant application document. But I accept  
that HSBC didnt likely make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mr E didnt know  
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr E thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr E knew  about or 
ought to have known about  on the start date of the policy,  or which  hed sought 
treatment/advice for during the 12 months before the start date and which  recurs  
within 12 months of the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr E pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr E from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should  the insured  
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr E didnt  have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  he had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Ref: DRN10732167The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr E would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr E needed  not to be doing any work. I dont think  this is likely to 
be any different to what he would have expected to make a claim. 
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr E would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Es representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr E would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr E 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr E believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr E in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. 
Ref: DRN10732168So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
HSBC should  pay Mr E compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr E thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr E, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Es representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr E and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr E in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1073216