K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  The complaint is brought  on their behalf by a claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy  was probably 
taken out in one of the banks branches and provided Mr and Mrs P with cover for accident,  
sickness and unemployment. The cover was split equally between them.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that they didnt know they had a PPI policy  and were  unaware 
that they were  paying for it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Lloyds has been  able to provide some paperwork from the time of the sale, but no longer 
has a full record of what took place. This isnt unreasonable  or unsurprising  given this took 
place so long ago. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, 
I have to make my decision  on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs P say they werent aware they had PPI. But its not surprising they dont 
remember taking out the policy as it took place so long ago. I havent seen anything to show 
that Lloyds didnt make it clear that the PPI was a separate product. Overall,  I think it more 
likely than not that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional  and that they 
chose to take it.
Lloyds says that this was likely to have  been  an advised sale. This means that, in 
recommending the policy,  it needed  to ensure that it suited Mr and Mrs Ps needs. It doesnt  
look like the PPI was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time.  I say this because:
Mr and Mrs P were  eligible for the policy  given  their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
Mr P told us he wouldve received statutory sick pay if he couldnt work due to sickness  
or an accident, plus £100  a week for 12 weeks from a pay insurance policy. Mrs P told 
us shed have received six months  full pay followed  by six months half pay. The 
mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment  and Mr and Mrs Ps home  
was at risk if they didnt keep  up with the repayments.  The PPI would have paid out for 
up to 12 months  in the event  of a successful  claim for accident or sickness.  So I think  
the PPI couldve  been a useful  benefit,  in addition to Mr and Mrs Ps existing 
arrangements. It also covered them if theyd become  unemployed.
Ref: DRN12794142Mr and Mrs P werent affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys main benefits 
such as those affecting  self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As they couldve benefitted  from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely 
they needed better  advice  or information about  the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether  cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mr and Mrs P 
before they agreed  to purchase it. Its possible they werent told it would  cost £24.57  
each month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered  
whether clearer  information  about  the cost would  have affected Mr and Mrs Ps decision 
to purchase the policy. They had chosen to take out the policy,  knowing they would 
have to pay something  for it. The policy was competitively  priced  and apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely they would  have made a different decision if better 
information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation 
was unsuitable  and I dont think Mr and Mrs P would  have made  a different decision about 
taking out the policy  if better information had been provided to them   overall,  I think  they 
would still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1279414