K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold  them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  solely for Mr G for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £250 a month  towards 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim.  At the time, it cost 
£12.65 a month. 
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as an accountant. He has told us he was entitled to 12 
months employee pay if he was too unwell to work and had some  savings he says he could 
have relied upon to make the mortgage  repayments if he was unable to work.  He was also 
entitled to redundancy pay in the event he lost his job as well as death in service  benefit. 
Mr G has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
Mrs G was employed as a medical  secretary.  She has told us she was entitled  to 12 months  
sick pay if she was too unwell to work as well as redundancy  pay. She also had savings she 
could have relied upon if she wasnt working.  Mrs G has said she was in good  health at the 
time of the sale. 
As Mr G was the sole beneficiary  of the policy,  I will be mainly considering his circumstances 
when the policy was sold. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                    
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs G about  the poor value;  
Ref: DRN12058982The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN12058983Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN12058984including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent                  
Mr and Mrs G suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Bos has been  able to give us a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application as well as the 
PPI application   they are separate documents.
The mortgage application has a separate section entitled Accident sickness  and 
unemployment insurance. I can see that Mr and Mrs G have signed this section to say Yes, 
I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance.  If Mr and Mrs G hadnt 
wanted the insurance, they could have just completed the application form without signing 
this section. 
The Mortgage Repayment Insurance Application was completed  on the same day as the 
mortgage application itself. As Ive said above, it was a separate document to the mortgage  
application so if Mr and Mrs G hadnt  wanted the policy, I wouldnt have expected the PPI 
application form to have been  completed. And there are questions  which  have been  
answered about Mr Gs personal  circumstances  as well as details of the cost and benefit.  
So, I think this form was a reflection of what was discussed during the meeting and 
particularly bearing  in mind Mr and Mrs Gs decision that the policy was to be solely for the 
benefit of Mr G (Mr and Mrs G have told us Mrs G was working part-time  less than 16 
hours a week  so would not have been eligible for the policy). 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it did provide  advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs Gs recollection is that no advice 
was given. Looking  at what happened and all of the documentary evidence  which  details   
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of the sale, I think its most  likely advice was given. 
The paperwork is the type I would expect to see if a business is making a recommendation 
and making sure it is suitable for the customer. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN12058985While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs G. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  some  information was 
gathered to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy   by asking 
questions about  their wider circumstances  such  as any health issues and existing means  I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I cant see that it was established 
whether Mr G would  be affected  by some of the exclusions and limitations of the policy .
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G given  their circumstances. So, 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy  Mr G was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Gs finances would be put under strain if he was not working 
 even allowing  for the sickness  and redundancy benefits he was entitled to and    
Mrs Gs income.  The policy would have  helped Mr and Mrs G manage the 
consequences were  Mr G unable to work.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr G. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Gs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given           
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and the fact the policy protected the mortgage  
repayments relating  to their home  and the potential consequences should               
Mr and Mrs G be unable to make  the repayments on loans secured against their 
house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr G was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have taken 
out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium 
might be.
Ref: DRN12058986But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed  to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G, Im not persuaded 
BoS did enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave  Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did         
Mr and Mrs G suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs G. 
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude            
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the policy,  had BoS done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Ref: DRN12058987Mr and Mrs G would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event      
Mr G was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs G were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs G would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Gs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr G knew  about or should  have known  about or for which  he received advice, 
treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the start date 
and which recurred within 24 months of the start date of the policy;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr G be unable  to 
do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
Ref: DRN12058988wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr G was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr G wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr G didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than                  
Mr and Mrs G might  reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs G from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs G, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs G had known they could only claim for disability if Mr G was unable to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr G was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs G that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for.  
Mr G has told us he was entitled to generous sick pay benefits he could have used so he 
didnt need the policy. Ive thought carefully about  what hes said,  but its very unusual for an 
employer to provide  12 months full sick pay. 
I think its likely Mr G was entitled to some  sick pay. But in my experience  and without 
evidence to show otherwise  I think  its unlikely he would  have  received  the level of sick pay 
hes told us he was entitled to particularly bearing in mind Mr G told us he had only been 
with his employer  for a year. And as the policy would have paid out alongside  any sick pay 
he did get, and his statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 
months income it would  have been  useful for him is something when wrong. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. As Ive said, the policy would be paid alongside any 
employee benefits Mr G would receive  and allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could 
help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Gs sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use. It would have  also meant  Mr and Mrs Gs savings remained intact for longer or be 
available for other essential outgoings.  
Ref: DRN12058989Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr G was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position               
Mr and Mrs G found  themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
Ref: DRN120589810provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs G and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1205898