K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the amount  that hes been charged by Hitachi Capital Vehicle 
Solutions Limited, trading as Hitachi Capital Driving  Instructor Solutions,  for damage to a car 
that he returned at the end of his hire agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr A under a hire agreement with Hitachi  Capital that he signed 
in February 2016.  The agreement was for two years but Mr A extended it to February 2019. 
Hitachi Capital arranged  for the car to be collect from him in February 2019 by a third party  
and it was inspected. The inspection report identified damage to the car and recommended 
charges for that damage of £920. Hitachi Capital charged  Mr A £920  but he complained  to it. 
He said that his problem was not with the inspectors findings but with the price  and the 
process. 
Hitachi Capital said that the charges had been  correctly applied in line with the terms of his 
lease and the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association guidelines. Mr A wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service  and to the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association.  It confirmed that the charges  were justified.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think that 
it was unfair  for Hitachi Capital to charge Mr A for the damage or that it had acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably. He said that it followed  the process outlined  in the terms and conditions that 
Mr A had agreed to and Mr A had three weeks from when the collection date was given to 
him and he could have had the car repaired during  that period.
Mr A has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary  and amongst other  things, that:
consumers should be provided with clear  information and kept appropriately  informed 
before, during and after the service  provision;
he was not provided with a reminder  of the fair wear and tear provision before the 
collection date;
he doesnt agree that there  was damage to the left front door, left quarter panel, 
bonnet and left front wing;
Hitachi Capital hasnt  complied with the guidance about investigations  and hes 
quoted from some  guidance;
hes been a Hitachi Capital customer for eight  years and none  of the cars that hes 
returned has been deemed  to be damaged but its charging him this time when hes 
not taking another agreement with it;
he received a quote of £250 for the repairs from a garage;
he should not have to pay any amount but would be comfortable with paying £250 as 
a compromise; and
hes not received  a copy of the contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16106282Mr A extended the end of his agreement from February 2018 to February  2019  by signing a 
modification agreement.  He was discussing a new agreement with Hitachi Capital but it sent 
him an e-mail  in January  2019 which said that it had no alternative but to book your vehicle 
in for collection at the end of the contract  and a collection was booked  for three  weeks later.
Mr A had signed the hire agreement in February  2016. It said that If you fail to use, look 
after or maintain  the vehicle properly you may have to compensate us (see clauses  5, 6 and 
16). He says that hes not received a copy of the contract so I asked the investigator to send 
him a copy  of it and the modification  agreement. 
Mr A now says that he doesnt remember signing  the modification agreement,  it doesnt  
include the cars registration  number and he thinks that his signature was forged on it. But 
Hitachi Capital has provided an e-mail  from Mr As e-mail address to which the signed 
modification agreement  was attached and which said:  please find attached signed contract 
for extension  on [and quoted the cars registration number]. So I consider that he did sign 
the modification agreement  and he also kept the car until February 2019.
Clause 16.3 of the terms and conditions  says:
You will ensure that on return the Vehicle  is in good order, repair and condition 
(except for Fair Wear and Tear); and: On or after the return  of the Vehicle, we will 
arrange for it to be inspected and will notify you of the estimated costs of any works 
of repair  or replacement required to restore the Vehicle to be in compliance  with 
clause 16.3.
Mr A says that he had a mechanic inspect  the car just before its return  and it quoted £252.08 
for repairing the damage.
I agree  with Mr A that it would be reasonable to expect  Hitachi  Capital to have done  more to 
inform him about  the return process and standards. But Mr A had signed  the agreement  so I 
consider that he would have known, or ought  reasonably to have known, that the car would 
be inspected and that he would be liable for any damage beyond  fair wear and tear. 
Mr A doesnt  agree  that there was damage to the left front door, left quarter panel, bonnet 
and left front wing. So Im not persuaded that its likely that he wouldve arranged for that 
damage to be repaired  before  the car was inspected - even if hed been given more 
information about the return process  by Hitachi Capital.
I consider that Hitachi Capital has complied with the clauses  about the return of the car that 
it agreed with Mr A in the hire agreement. The car was inspected on its behalf  by a third 
party. The inspection report identified damage  to the car and included photos  of the damage. 
The damage was described as: dented  bonnet, left front wing and rear bumper; scuffed  front 
bumper and all wheel  trims; and poor repairs to the left front door and left quarter  panel.  It 
recommended charges  totalling £920 for that damage. The report says that Customer 
refused to sign report .
Mr A doesnt  agree  with much of that damage. But in his complaint to Hitachi Capital he said 
that his problem was not with the findings  from the inspector but the price and the fact that 
he wasn't allowed  to see the inspectors report or images of the damages  to the car. And he 
arranged for a garage to quote for the repairs. The quote includes repairs  of all of the 
damage included  in the inspection report  and refers to removal of dents  from the bonnet 
Ref: DRN16106283and left front wing. I consider it to be more likely  than not that there was damage to those 
areas  if not I dont  consider that the garage  would have been  able to quote for repairing it. 
Mr A has complained to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association about the 
charges. It considered  the evidence in the inspection report and confirmed that the charges 
were justified. Mr A hasnt agreed with its conclusions.
Having considered all of the available  evidence, I consider it to be more likely than not that 
the car was damaged as described in the inspection report  and that the damage is more 
than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear. Hitachi Capital has charged  
Mr A for that damage in accordance with its standard charges and Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that those charges were  excessive. 
The quote  that Mr A has provided is significantly less than Hitachi Capitals charge. But that 
doesnt show that Hitachi Capitals charges are excessive or that its unfair or unreasonable 
for it to charge Mr A that amount.  Mr A had the opportunity to have  the car repaired before  it 
was collected   but he didnt do so. I dont consider that there  was any requirement  for 
Hitachi Capital to return the car to Mr A after it had been inspected for him to have the car 
repaired.
I consider that Hitachi Capital should  have done  more to inform  Mr A about the collection 
process and the car return standards. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay any compensation to Mr A (or to take any other  action) 
because of its failure to do so. And other than that, Im not persuaded that its acted unfairly 
or unreasonably  in its dealings with Mr A. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to waive or reduce the amount that its charged Mr A for the damage  or to 
take any other action  in response to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1610628