K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  Hoist  Finance UK Limited (Hoist), has pursued her for a debt which  she 
has paid.
background
In May 2019, Miss B was contacted by Hoist about an outstanding debt it said she owed. 
Miss B complained to Hoist and said she didnt  recognise the debt but that it should  have 
been included  as part of an Administration  Order.
In 2010, Miss B said shed agreed  to an Administrative order  to pay £10 per week  to clear 
the debts listed  in the order. And in May 2016  she said shed received confirmation  from HM 
Courts and Tribunal  Service (HMCTS) that her Administration Order  had been paid in full.
Hoist confirmed the debt was Miss Bs but said that no payments had been made towards  it. 
And said after Miss B had sent her court  papers it had put on hold its debt collection activity.  
But Miss B said she was still being chased  to pay the debt.
Miss B referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator was satisfied that the debt had been part of the Administration Order, and 
that it had been settled.  She advised  Hoist to check with the court to locate Miss Bs 
payments. She also asked Hoist to pay £100  for the trouble and upset  Miss B had 
experienced.
But Hoist  didnt agree.  It said as the debt was Miss Bs; it couldnt be held responsible for 
attempting to collect the debt in the absence of documentation. And when Miss B had sent 
her documents, in May 2019, to show she had discharged  her liability it had stopped its debt 
collecting activities.
Hoist has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
This services role isnt to punish businesses when  things have gone wrong. Instead its to 
look at the impact of whats happened and, where  possible, decide on what  should  happen  
to put things right. In reaching my decision Ive considered whats  gone  wrong  and how 
thats impacted  Miss B and what was done by both parties to lessen the impact of that 
trouble and upset.  
For Miss B, receiving  letters about  payments for debts which  she had settled must have 
been very upsetting. 
I understand confusion  can arise  when debts are transferred  and/or when considering whats 
owed at a specific  time and whether  payments were  made. And for this debt its 
understandable why Miss B didnt at first recognise  it because of the various businesses 
involved in the debt and its recovery. 
Ref: DRN10022762But Miss B knew she had listed her debts  when she went to court in 2010,  and that these 
had been settled. She explained this to Hoist. And I think Hoist  had a responsibility to 
ensure that the data it had was accurate and should  have taken reasonable steps to 
ensure that only the actual debtor and valid debts were pursued for repayment.  
CONC 7.5.3 says:
A firm must not ignore or disregard a customers claim that a debt has been settled 
or is disputed and must not continue to make demands for payment without providing 
clear justification and/or  evidence as to why the customers claim is not valid.
Our investigator said Hoist should check with HMCTS. And when it did it was confirmed 
that the court had allocated  the wrong  reference  number, so Miss Bs payments werent  
attributed to her account.
I accept the initial  fault wasnt made by Hoist. But when Miss B said she had settled her 
account Hoist  should have checked  this information without  the need for Miss B to bring 
her complaint to us. 
Hoist has now accepted  Miss Bs debt has been settled and wont be pursuing  her 
further. Ive not been made aware of any adverse  information having been  added to 
Miss Bs credit file, so Ive not made any recommendation about  this. But the situation  
has caused Miss B a considerable amount of trouble and upset.
And despite  Hoist saying it had stopped its debt collecting activity in May 2019.  I can see 
that in June 2019 when sending Miss B a copy statement for her account its letter said:
If you are not already making  payment towards your account, please forward 
your affordable payment  proposals  to us. We have placed your account on hold 
for the next 14 days to enable you to do this, after which time collection activity 
will resume on your account.
And in July 2019,  this hold was lifted and a further request for payment was made.  Also 
in August 2019, Hoist  sent Miss B a copy  of its court order that showed it had been 
given authority to pursue  outstanding debts. All of which would have  added to Miss Bs 
concerns about a debt shed settled  some years before. 
I think it must have  been a difficult  choice for Miss B to make in agreeing  to an 
Administrative Order, as it has consequences.  So, to do this, and then find yourself 
some years later being pursued  for a debt you believed had been cleared,  must have  
been upsetting. And Hoist added  to this distress by continuing  to send her letters asking 
for payment.
So, overall, and for the above  reasons, I agree with our investigator that Miss B has settled 
the debt. And that Hoist should  pay Miss B £100  compensation for the trouble and upset it 
has caused her. 
Ref: DRN10022763my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Hoist Finance UK Limited to pay Miss B £100 for trouble 
and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1002276