K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain  that a car they have been  financing through  an agreement with 
Go Car Credit Limited  (Go Car) has been of unsatisfactory quality. Theyre  also unhappy 
that Go Car have  terminated their agreement  early.
background
Mrs and Mr B took receipt of a used car in August 2017. They financed the deal through  a 
four year hire purchase agreement with Go Car. When supplied  to them the car had already  
completed 78,888  miles and was five years old.
In February 2018  Mrs and Mr B asked the dealership to complete work  to a damaged 
bumper and a chipped windscreen that its agreed was present when they took receipt  of the 
car. They also asked  the dealership to look into an engine management light that had 
illuminated and they wanted the dealership to fix the cars brakes.
There was a delay  before the car was checked in to the dealership because a courtesy  car 
wasnt available. Later in February  2018, before the car had been back  for repairs, Mrs and 
Mr B noticed  a further error light had come  on. They had a diagnostic completed at their 
expense and this showed 17 fault codes.
The car was eventually booked in for repairs and returned to Mrs and Mr B in April.  The 
dealership explained that the engine management light was on because  the oil and oil filter 
needed changing, So they did this and repaired the bumper and chipped  windscreen. But 
they didnt think  it was fair for them to pay for repairs to the brakes. They  explained these 
were worn  and that Mrs and Mr B had completed  about 10,000 miles since the car was 
supplied to them and the wear would  be considered  fair wear and tear. They reviewed the 
fault codes Mrs and Mr B had identified  but noted these were ghost codes: historic ones 
that hadnt been reset after previous repairs. They noted that Mrs and Mr B had explained 
that the car had been working satisfactorily since  they were  cleared. 
But Mrs and Mr B had further problems with the car in October 2018 when the engine 
management light illuminated again. They provided  a new diagnostic  and told Go Car theyd 
like to reject  the vehicle and terminate their agreement with them as it was clear these faults 
related to the earlier ones and had been  present since they took receipt  of the car.
But Go Car didnt agree. They noted that the new fault codes  related  to the Diesel  
Particulate Filter (DPF) and they thought this suggested they were new faults, not related to 
the condition of the vehicle when supplied and therefore not for them  to resolve. And they 
also noted that Mrs and Mr B had been able to complete 8,000  miles in the car since they 
first reported  problems and 18,000 miles since the agreement started. So they thought it 
unlikely theyd be able to do this if thered been problems with the car.
But Mrs and Mr B disagreed and they were also upset that their finance agreement  had been  
terminated early by Go Car and the car had been  repossessed. They thought  this was unfair 
and they referred  their complaint to this service where our adjudicator  provided  his opinion.
He thought Go Car had been  within their rights to terminate the agreement early  as he noted  
payments hadnt  been received and thered been several default notices issued to Mrs and 
Mr B. He explained that even if they were  unhappy  with the quality  of the car they would 
Ref: DRN18997642need to continue to make payments towards  any finance agreement  until such  point as the 
complaint was resolved.
He was persuaded that the problems Mrs and Mr B referred to the business in early 2018 
had been repaired  and he didnt think the current  faults with the DPF were likely  to have 
been there at the beginning of the agreement, 18,000 miles earlier.  He thought Mrs and Mr B 
wouldnt have been able to drive the car that far if the faults were present at that time.
So he didnt think it would be fair to ask Go Car to take any further action. But Mrs and Mr B 
disagreed and they asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs and Mr B so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
Mrs and Mr B acquired their car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and as a result our service  is able to 
look into complaints  about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Go Car are responsible. The relevant law also says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable  person  would  
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all the 
other relevant circumstances.  
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs and Mr B. The 
car here was around five years old and had already travelled nearly  80,000 miles. So I would 
expect it to have  some  wear and tear.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Go Car to put this right.  
But Go Cars responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Ref: DRN18997643Im not persuaded that its most  likely the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I say that because the diagnostic report provided in October  2018  has identified  fault 
codes relating to the DPF and I dont think these  could fairly be associated with the faults 
identified in early  2018 which, I think its fair to suggest, were  resolved when the oil and filter 
were changed. I think they were  resolved  because  I can see that Mrs and Mr B have been 
able to drive a further 8,000 miles in the car and I dont think its likely  theyd have  been  able 
to do that if the faults hadnt  been  rectified.
So Im not persuaded there  is evidence  that this car is experiencing faults that were there at 
the point of supply and I therefore dont think Go Car need to take any action.
were Go Car wrong  to terminate the agreement?
Mrs and Mr B didnt  keep up with payments on their agreement. Defaults  were  issued on 
several occasions. Ive seen defaults  in March,  April and October 2018 before the 
agreement was terminated in November 2018.
The finance  agreement says if Mrs and Mr B failed to make payments  the vehicle could be 
repossessed without a court order unless more  than a third of the agreement had been paid. 
I can see that a third of the payments hadnt been made so I dont think  Go Car were wrong 
to seek to repossess  their car.
The defaults  all warned of the consequences  of not paying off the arrears. They said that if 
this wasnt done  they would terminate  the agreement. This was in line with the terms of the 
hire purchase agreement which explained  the same.
I understand that Mrs and Mr B were disputing quality  concerns with the vehicle but this 
doesnt exempt them from paying instalments on their finance agreement whilst  the 
complaint was being considered and Go Car dont  have  to stop collection activities  during 
that period.
So I dont  think theres evidence here that Go Car were wrong to terminate the finance 
agreement and Im therefore  not asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1899764