K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  that CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV (CIGNA) has 
declined their travel insurance  claim.
background
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs H were on a cruise.  On the second  day of the trip Mr H fell 
down some stairs when  he was returning  to his cabin to retrieve his jacket. Due to his 
injuries, he was airlifted to a hospital  back in the UK.
Mr and Mrs H put in a claim under their travel insurance for their costs including medical and 
repatriation costs. CIGNA declined their claim as the treating doctor on the ship had 
diagnosed Mr H with alcohol intoxication  as well as injuries sustained in the fall. It referred  
to its policy  terms which  said that it wont pay for claims arising due to being under the 
influence of alcohol.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with CIGNAs  outcome. They said Mr H fell because  the ship was 
unfamiliar to him and he has a disclosed  medical  condition which  affects his mobility. They  
said he was suffering from concussion as he sustained a head injury during the fall, and this 
is why he was experiencing  symptoms  similar to someone heavily under the influence of 
alcohol. She said hed had one small glass of mulled  wine and then two glasses of wine at 
dinner, so wasnt drunk. CIGNA didnt  change its position, so they brought  their complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. She said that they hadnt provided 
any evidence that Mr H was concussed,  rather than under the influence  of alcohol.  So based 
on the information available, she didnt think CIGNA had acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed, so the complaint was prepared for a final decision.
In August  2019  Mr H attended a hospital  appointment in the rheumatology department.  The 
letter from this appointment states  that Mr H was suffering  from mild post-concussion 
syndrome following his fall in December 2018. This letter was provided  to us and CIGNA in 
December 2019,  but it maintained its stance on this case. So Im now reviewing it for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the policy terms that apply to Mr and Mrs Hs claim. I consider that the 
exclusion relating  to claims arising from being  under the influence  of alcohol is clear. The 
term reads:
This policy does not cover the following  
5. Any claim arising from being under the influence or effect of alcohol or drugs 
This term is common  place in most travel insurance  policies.  The key issue  I have to decide  
in this case is whether  alcohol  was the most likely  cause of Mr Hs fall.
Ref: DRN19374702The ships doctor has written the following in his medical report:
He [Mr H] presented to the ships medical  facilities  first on December  19, 2018 at 22:35 due 
to injury sustained when he fell down the stairs obviously  inebriated  (confusion, sudden 
lapses into and out of semi-consciousness with later alcoholic amnesia, smell of alcohol 
around him)
CIGNA has maintained  its decision to decline  the claim  as theres both testimony that Mr H 
had been drinking alcohol and a medical report which said he was intoxicated. And his 
behaviour was consistent with someone who was heavily  under the influence  of alcohol,  
rather than someone who had just consumed  a moderate level of alcohol. Mrs H has argued 
that Mr H fell due to his existing  medical condition  which  limits his mobility,  and the 
unfamiliar surroundings  of the ship.
The treating  doctors  observations are very clear and the term hes used is very strong, he 
hasnt just said Mr H was drunk/had been  drinking alcohol, hes said obviously inebriated 
and then listed all the behaviors he witnessed to support this conclusion. I appreciate Mrs H 
says these behaviors were in fact symptoms of an undiagnosed  concussion,  but I havent 
seen conclusive medical evidence that this was the case. And not everything  observed can 
be explained  by a concussion. 
Mrs H has said there  are a number of errors in the report by the ships doctor,  most  of which 
relate to Mr Hs medical history/illnesses.  But it does seem the key facts described (such as 
the details of the fall) and the diagnoses  of Mr Hs injuries are accurate. So while there  may 
have been some errors in the patient history, Im satisfied that this report is the doctors  
written account of his treatment of Mr H.
Mrs H has said that a large contusion on Mr Hs brow became apparent after they left the 
ship. But this isnt noted in Mr Hs hospital  discharge  paperwork, which  I would expect for a 
head injury following a serious fall. And I note that neither  his GP nor the Neurologist he saw 
formally diagnosed him with post-concussion syndrome. His GP said his symptoms might 
represent a post-concussional syndrome  and the Neurologist diagnosed  Possible mild 
post-concussion syndrome.  While  his Rheumatologist has listed  this condition, I note this 
isnt his specialism and the report doesnt suggest any further  testing has been done to 
confirm this diagnosis.  In any event, it is of course possible that Mr H is suffering from post-
concussion syndrome, but I have to assess the cause of the fall, not what symptoms Mr H 
suffered because of it.
Based on the medical evidence we have,  I think CIGNA has reasonably concluded  that 
alcohol did play a significant  part in Mr Hs fall. The doctors observations are independent, 
and cant all be explained by a concussion. For example that there was a smell of alcohol 
around Mr H, suggesting  hed consumed a high level of alcohol, which in turn is likely to 
affect his normal  level of mobility and ability  to navigate the ship.  I appreciate his existing 
conditions may have also played  a factor in Mr Hs fall, but based  on the evidence, I think 
CIGNA has acted fairly in declining  this claim and applying the exclusion relating to being  
under the influence of alcohol.
Ref: DRN19374703my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1937470