K820x#14complaint
Mr D, on behalf of O, a limited liability company, complains that DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company failed to appoint  a panel firm to assist it with a claim it made on its 
commercial legal expenses insurance policy. He also says it delayed in dealing  with Os 
complaint.
background
In October  2016, O made a claim on its legal  expenses insurance policy for cover to bring  a 
claim against the landlord of the building  it occupied. Mr D said the landlord had put up a 
poster that covered the building  without informing O.
DAS appointed a panel firm (firm A) to consider the claim. In November 2016 firm A 
concluded that Os claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success  as required by the 
policy so DAS declined  to cover it. Mr D wasnt happy with the opinion so raised  this with 
firm A. An Associate there  reviewed the earlier  opinion  and concluded  it was correct so both 
firm A and DAS maintained its position.
In October  2017, Mr D contacted DAS. He said hed obtained a barristers opinion  which  put 
the merits of Os claim between 50-60%.  DAS asked for a more precise determination  on the 
merits of Os claim. Mr D responded saying it was clear Os case had reasonable prospects 
of success because prospects were  between 50-60%. He also said hed appointed his own 
solicitors and simply wanted confirmation  of cover. DAS asked for a more  specific opinion  on 
the merits of the claim. In response  Mr D supplied the opinion  which  stated merits were  
above 51%. DAS agreed to pass the matter to their claims team as a consequence. They 
also asked Mr D for the details of his own solicitor so they could  liaise with them directly 
about their appointment.
Following this a dispute  arose over the time it was taking DAS to reimburse O for the 
barristers fees hed incurred. Mr D complained about this and DAS accepted it had taken  
them too long to deal with this. They offered  him £100 to compensate  him for this. Mr D also 
asked DAS to pay Os own solicitors fees incurred in dealing with the underlying  claim; he 
said theyd incurred £20,000 in costs. DAS refused  this on the basis that they hadnt agreed 
to those fees being incurred and theyd offered O the use of firm A. 
Mr D said he didnt want firm A to be instructed;  he wasnt happy with how theyd looked at 
Os claim to start with but he also didnt want DAS to contact his own solicitors as he felt 
doing so would upset them. He also said that he knew DAS would  only offer his own firm a 
third of the charge out rate they were prepared to accept  to act for him. So he asked DAS 
how much  theyd pay to reimburse  him for the costs hed already incurred.
Mr D raised a new complaint about  the situation  he found himself  in. DAS responded, 
accepting they couldve registered his complaint sooner, but said they couldnt agree to pay 
his solicitors costs without that firm agreeing to their terms of appointment and the claim 
meeting the remaining policy terms, which theyd need to discuss with Os solicitors  directly. 
They offered  again  to appoint Os solicitors or instruct  another  panel firm (firm B). Mr D 
refused because that firm were acting for the other party in his claim so they were conflicted.
DAS then offered  to fund another solicitor of Mr Ds choice, on the basis that he wasnt 
prepared to allow them to try to agree terms with his existing solicitor. He said this was 
because DAS had tried to do this on another claim and his solicitor  wouldnt accept the rate 
Ref: DRN19673572DAS was prepared  to pay. As a consequence he said this had cost O £500 in solicitors  costs 
for their dealings with DAS on this issue. He was also unhappy that DAS had taken too long 
to respond to him. DAS then offered the instruction  of another  panel firm (firm C). They also 
acknowledged theyd  taken too long to respond  and offered to pay him another £100 to 
compensate him for this.
Firm C then proceeded  to consider the merits of Os claim. They concluded  it had no 
reasonable prospects of success. That was because it had already been  litigated and 
discontinued by O. 
Mr D is unhappy with how Os claim was handled . He feels that DAS didnt appoint  a 
representative to deal with his case and that theyd delayed in responding to his complaint. 
Hes asked that DAS compensate  him for this.
Our investigator considered Os complaint but didnt  uphold it. Mr D doesnt agree so the 
matter has been  passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Os 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. In civil claims  they require it to be always  more likely 
than not that an insured person will recover damages (or obtain any other legal remedy) 
which DAS have agreed to - or make  a successful defence.
When Mr D made a claim on the policy, DAS did what Id expect it to do by appointing a 
panel firm to assess Os claim. The panel firm concluded the claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success.  Having considered the advice provided  by the panel firm initially and 
then the Associate Solicitor there,  Im satisfied there  was nothing in that advice that meant 
DAS werent entitled to rely on it. So I dont think they did anything wrong by turning down 
the claim at that point.
When Mr D went  back to DAS with a barristers opinion, hed already incurred costs  in 
instructing his own solicitors. But DAS werent aware of these costs before they were 
incurred, nor did they authorise  them.  The policy states costs and expenses  incurred before 
the written acceptance  of a claim arent covered.  Thats not unusual and generally we dont  
consider that to be unreasonable. DAS is entitled to have some degree  of control over the 
claim, as the funding  party, so I wouldnt expect it to pay costs  it wasnt aware of and didnt 
authorise, unless  it did something substantially wrong. In this case, I think  it was reasonable 
for DAS to turn down  cover off the back of firm As assessment. So I dont think  it follows  that 
DAS should pay Os legal  costs incurred following that assessment.
The policy also requires that any representative  for an insured must be appointed by DAS in 
accordance with their standard terms of appointment. In this case, Mr D refused all contact 
with his own solicitor so DAS didnt have the opportunity  to try to agree to their instruction. I 
know this is because he knew  those  solicitors wouldnt  agree to DAS rates because theyd 
tried to negotiate these  on another matter.  But that doesnt mean that DAS were obliged  to 
pay Mr Ds own solicitors whatever they wanted to charge. The policy only covers 
reasonable and necessary costs chargeable on a standard basis. So it was up to Mr D 
whether he wanted  to continue to litigate his underlying dispute with Os landlord without the 
Ref: DRN19673573benefit of legal assistance whilst discussing this issue with DAS.  So I cant say that DAS now 
need to reimburse  O for these costs.  
Mr D has expressed  concern over DAS  failing to appoint a panel firm to represent  him. 
Given the number  of complaints Mr D made  during his dealings  with DAS,  and the fact that 
theyd upheld some  of them in relation to delays, DAS offered to fund the costs of his own 
solicitor or to allow him to find someone  else to represent him if his own solicitor didnt want 
to act under the terms of a legal  expenses insurance policy.  Thats more than the policy  
required them to do. But Mr D wasnt amenable to this. So DAS did find another  panel firm to 
act for Mr D - firm B who were conflicted - and then firm C. By this time, Os claim had been 
litigated and withdrawn so the advice DAS received was that there  were  no reasonable 
prospects of successfully pursuing any claim in relation to the signage for O. I dont think  this 
was DAS fault. Mr D had instructed his own solicitors to pursue that claim;  DAS had no 
involvement in those proceedings or influence over the direction of the claim.  And it seems  
to me that even  if theyd offered him the use of a panel firm as soon  as Mr D approached  
them in October 2017,  Mr D was unlikely to accept this because  at that time he was asking 
for his own solicitors costs - some £20,000  - to be paid. The level of costs incurred at that 
time, suggest to me that the claim itself was probably at quite an advanced stage. So the 
appointment of a panel firm sooner than October 2018  is unlikely  to have made  a difference 
to the outcome of Mr Ds claim because it would very likely have concluded  some  time 
before that.
Finally, I agree that DAS did delay in responding to Mr D on a few occasions and when 
paying out his barristers  fees. DAS have  offered  and paid him £200 for this. I think  thats 
adequate compensation  in the circumstances. And I agree with the investigator that DAS 
didnt unduly delay in responding to Mr Ds concerns that are the subject of this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Os complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
O, to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1967357