K821x#15complaint
Miss F is unhappy about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled her home 
insurance claim. She doesnt  think the compensation its offered fairly reflects  the delays and 
difficulties shes experienced.
background
In December 2016, Miss Fs property was damaged due to an escape of water. She made  a 
claim on her home insurance policy,  which is underwritten by RSA.
The damage to her home was extensive, affecting all four floors of the property. Because  of 
the extent of the damage, Miss Fs home wasnt habitable. After a short  stay with family, she 
moved into a hotel while the works  were completed.
The property was certified dry in February 2017, and the repairs  began. RSA estimated that 
the repairs would take approximately three months.  But, by the end of 2017, Miss F was still 
living in the hotel as the repairs hadnt  been  completed. She moved back into her property in 
January 2018,  much  later than she expected.
Miss F complained to RSA that its handling  of the claim  had caused  avoidable delays  and a 
great deal of stress and inconvenience.  
In its final response letter  of 16 February 2018,  RSA accepted  there had been avoidable 
delays, faulty  workmanship and a lack of care. It paid £400 compensation to recognise the 
difficulties Miss F had experienced. Miss F didnt accept RSAs offer  she said it was 
insulting and didnt  reflect  the anxiety and stress the situation had caused her. So she 
brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and was satisfied RSA had caused  avoidable  
delays of seven  months.  And she agreed  thered been faulty  workmanship and a lack of care 
taken. But she didnt  think RSAs  compensation sufficiently  reflected the trouble and upset 
Miss F had been put through, so she recommended RSA pay an additional £1,000  
compensation, as well as disturbance allowance, if not already paid. 
RSA didnt dispute that it had caused  seven months of avoidable delays and agreed to pay 
£1,000 compensation on top of the £400 itd already paid. RSA said itd paid £15 food 
allowance for every  day Miss F was living in the hotel, and so it didnt think it needed  to pay 
any additional disturbance allowance. 
Miss F didnt agree with the investigators findings. She doesnt think £1,000  additional 
compensation reflects the difficulties  she experienced.  And so, the complaint  has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F has raised  a number of concerns about how RSA handled  her claim, some of which  
relate to events which occurred after RSA had provided its final response on the matter.  So 
Ill only be considering  events up until February  2017.
Ref: DRN18602062The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so there 
isnt a defined  period  of time.  But where theres  a lot of damage and remedial works, things 
will obviously take longer.  
RSA has accepted there were delays with how Miss Fs claim was handled and that faulty  
workmanship and a lack of care contributed to this. From  what Ive seen, I agree with the 
investigator that there were approximately seven months of avoidable delays. And I noted 
that RSA didnt dispute this finding.
Im not satisfied that RSA handled  Miss Fs claim promptly  and fairly,  and as it negatively 
impacted her, I think  compensation is a reasonable way for RSA to recognise this. Following 
our involvement, RSA agreed to pay a total of £1,400 compensation. And so I need to 
decide if this is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this case.
The nature of the leak and the extent  of damage  meant Miss F had to move out of her 
property. So without anything going wrong,  the claim in itself would cause distress and 
inconvenience that RSA isnt contractually,  or fairly responsible for. 
But when deciding  whether the compensation offered by RSA is fair, I have to keep in mind 
that Miss F wouldve been out of her home  for approximately three months even if the 
repairs had happened  as quickly as they ought to. So I cant hold RSA responsible  for 
inconvenience she experienced during this time, which is unfortunately an inevitable  
consequence of a claim such as this.
So what  Im concerned with is the seven months of avoidable delays and the impact this had 
on Miss F. Ive carefully thought about the inconvenience and distress Miss F says she 
experienced during this time in deciding whether RSA needs to pay more compensation.
Miss F has said she found living out of a suitcase for the length of time she did, really difficult  
 and I dont doubt that. Being without cooking  facilities and her home comforts for this 
period of time wouldve  been upsetting.
Miss F has said the hotel  was only booked a fortnight in advance  and so she didnt  know if 
she was going  to be returning  home or moving to other accommodation. Ive seen this did 
happen at times and I expect it was because RSA didnt foresee the claim going on as long 
as it did. I accept it wouldve, understandably, been  unsettling for Miss F and contributed  to 
the stress  of the situation.  But I dont  agree  that the hotel was always booked in this manner 
as Ive also seen  information that shows RSA did secure the hotel booking, sometimes  a 
month or longer in advance. 
Miss F has said her health has suffered as a result of the claim. But she hasnt provided any 
evidence to substantiate this  such as notes from a medical practitioner which detail how 
her health  has been  affected. So while I accept the experience has caused  her distress,  Im 
not persuaded its directly impacted her health.
In deciding whether  the compensation is fair, Ive kept in mind  other  costs  that RSA has 
covered, and the actions its taken to lessen  the impact on Miss F. I can see RSA agreed  to 
her staying in a hotel,  rather  than a short term rental  property, because it was closer to her 
place of work. And it agreed to pay the car parking costs  she incurred for parking her car 
near the hotel.  RSA also provided a food allowance of £15 per person per day while  Miss F 
resided at the hotel. So Im satisfied its been  reasonable in meeting additional costs she 
Ref: DRN18602063incurred. Its also since offered to reimburse Miss F for dry cleaning costs  she incurred while 
staying at the hotel if she can provide receipts.
RSA hasnt disputed  Miss Fs concerns about  how her property was treated while  the repairs  
were going  on. It mustve  been upsetting for her to feel the contractors werent  treating her 
property with respect. This, coupled with the poor workmanship  which added to how long 
she had to spend away from her home, no doubt  caused her distress and inconvenience. 
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded that £400 reflects what Miss F has been  
through. But I am satisfied that additional  compensation of £1,000 recognises this.
financial loss
Miss F has said that she wasnt able to pursue  her postgraduate doctoral degree  (PhD) 
because of the time shes spent away from work  to deal with the claim. Miss F said shes 
taken unpaid time off work to do so. While the situation may have  contributed to making it 
more difficult to continue  her PhD, I havent been provided with evidence which persuades  
me that it was impossible  for her to continue her studies. Without  it, I dont think its fair to 
hold RSA responsible for the fees Miss Fs says shes lost as a result of the claim.
Miss F has said her property has decreased in value as a result of contractors removing  
original features. I havent been  provided  with evidence to support this, so I dont think its 
reasonable to hold RSA accountable  for this.
guarantees 
Miss F is concerned that she didnt receive guarantees for the works completed on her 
property and says she hasnt signed off the work.  But it wouldnt have been  her 
responsibility to do so. RSA hasnt  acted unfairly  by not getting  her approval. RSA has said 
the one year guarantee for the repair works (including the works to fix the damp proofing in 
the basement wouldve  expired by now). While that may be the case, we expect repairs  to 
be lasting and effective.  And so, if Miss F has concerns  about  the repairs, she should  raise 
these with RSA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal  and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must:
pay £1,000  additional compensation. 
reimburse the costs  Miss F incurred for dry cleaning during her hotel  stay (subject  to 
proof of payment). Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must also pay interest  on 
this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date Miss F made the 
payments to the date it makes the payment1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
1 If Royal and Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc consider  its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  
Ref: DRN18602064income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss F how much its taken  off. It should also give Miss F a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
Ref: DRN1860206