K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms C complains that FICL  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card which Ms C took out in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.  Having  done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
FICL has provided a copy of the card application which Ms C signed  for her store card.  
Theres a section on this headed Payment  Protection (Details  attached). And I can see that 
the Yes  box provided to confirm that PPI was required has been  ticked.  Theres  an equally  
prominent No box that could have been  ticked if PPI cover  wasnt  wanted.  So from what  
Ive seen, I think its most likely Ms C knew at the time that the PPI was optional and that she 
actively decided to take it. But I can understand why she might not recall this now, as the 
sale took place  a long time ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt  need to check  that it was suitable, given 
her circumstances at the time. But it did need to ensure that she was given enough 
information to decide whether she wanted to take it. Although  I dont know  what  was said to 
her then, I think  its likely  that the information  she received about the PPI could  have been  
better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed  her mind about 
taking the cover. I say this because:
Ms C appears to have  been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Ms C wasnt  able to work  because 
of an accident,  sickness or unemployment.  And it doesnt  look like she had any other 
means of protecting her card repayments  for this period of time if she wasnt  able to 
work. So I think she would  have valued the extra security which the policy  gave her if 
things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Ms C. And as the policys  
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met her needs.
Ref: DRN16905472Ive thought about what Ms C has said in responding to the adjudicators view, but this hasnt 
changed my mind about not upholding her complaint. I still dont think  that shes lost out by 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong  when it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1690547