K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco)  mis-sold  her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in June 2019 explaining why I didnt intend  to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments and/or evidence  they would 
like me to consider.  However, neither party has provided me with anything  further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further  for me to consider,  I see no reason to depart 
from the findings as set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont think Tesco  mis-
sold Ms F this PPI policy.  This means  Tesco do not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Ms F.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms F because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so they should have  told Ms F about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Ms F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco have basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Ms F the difference  between 
what Ms F owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share they got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Ms F 8%* simple  
interest (15% before April 1993) if she paid off their credit card at some point.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance Plc do not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms F.
But Tesco Personal Finance Plc do have to pay back  to Ms F any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if they havent done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Ref: DRN14546042Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14546043copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Ms F complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms F applied for a credit  card in 2003. She was sold the PPI at the same in connection  with this card 
during a postal application.
The PPI cost 70p per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance.  It would have paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months if Ms F was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Fs complaint should be upheld.  Tesco didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Fs case.
Having done that, Im not intending to uphold Ms Fs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked whether Ms F was eligible for the policy.  Based on Ms Fs age, employment  
and circumstances  at the time of the sale Im satisfied she was eligible.
Tesco had to make it clear to Ms F that the PPI was optional and needed her consent before it could  
be applied to her account. 
Ive thought about what Ms F and Tesco and have told us and looked to the documents from the time 
of the sale to help me decide what is more likely  to have happened during the sale.
In particular, Ive seen  a copy of the credit  application  (to upgrade to a Platinum card) from the time of 
the sale.  This had a separate section  for PPI. Within this section Ms F was presented with an option 
to take PPI. She would have  had to tick the box if she wanted to take PPI. I can see that the box has 
been ticked and that Ms F signed the application form. I also note that when Ms F applied  for the 
credit card originally in 2000 she didnt choose to take PPI and it wasnt applied  to her account at that 
time.
So all in all, I think Tesco  made  it clear to Ms F that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take it 
out knowing she didnt  have to. 
As this was a postal sale with no apparent involvement  from a representative, I dont think  Tesco  
recommended the PPI to Ms F. This means Tesco  didnt have to check the PPI was right for her. So, 
for example,  they didnt need to take into account any of the other means  by which Ms F could have 
met her repayments if she wasnt working   such as her employee benefits and savings.  
But they still had to give Ms F clear enough  information so that she could decide  for herself  if she 
should take PPI. I dont think Tesco gave Ms F all of the information as they should  have  in 
particular about the costs,  benefits  and main exclusions.  So I have to consider whether   Ms F would 
have decided  against taking PPI out if she had been given better information. 
Ref: DRN14546044I dont think better information would have put Ms F off taking PPI. This is because:
-At the very least even  from the application form Ms F would have known  that PPI was 
designed to cover repayments if she was off work  sick or lost her job. So she decided to take 
PPI despite her existing repayment provisions. And the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to 
any other benefits Ms F would have been entitled to at the time of the sale.  It would have 
been particularly useful when Ms Fs sick pay was reduced to half.
-I appreciate  that Ms F has told us she had £13000 in savings. However,  I havent seen any 
evidence that Ms F had ready access to this amount of savings at the time of the sale.  As I 
understand it, Ms F regularly  withdrew cash amounts  from her credit card account  and also 
took out a loan a couple of months earlier  for the sum of £5000 in order to consolidate debt. It 
seems unlikely  that Ms F would  have had to do this if she had the amount of savings she has 
told us she had at the time of the sale. In these circumstances I would  need evidence of the 
savings from Ms F in order to consider upholding  this complaint. Should Ms F be able to 
provide evidence  of her savings, I will reconsider this complaint.
-Ms F didnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions  in the policy 
which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim  under the policy. 
-The PPI was relatively competitively priced and I cant see that it was unaffordable  to Ms F at 
the time of the sale.
-Ms F could have cancelled the PPI at any time without  losing out financially.
So based on the evidence Ive seen  so far, I dont think Tesco mis-sold  Ms F this PPI policy. Which  
means Tesco  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms F.
But Tesco will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms F because: 
Tesco  got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so 
they should have told Ms F about  that. Because Tesco didnt tell Ms F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco  have offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms F the difference  between  what Ms F 
owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Ms F 8%* simple interest (15% before  April 1993)  if she 
paid off their credit card at some point.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold so Tesco Personal Finance  PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms F.
So unless I receive further information which changes my mind,  Tesco Personal Finance PLC will 
have to pay back  to Ms F any commission  and profit share they got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium if they havent  done so already. 
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1454604