K821x#15Complaint
Mr J says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Mr J approached Drafty for a running  credit facility in September 2015. Mr J was given a 
facility with a £800  credit limit. Based on the information we have it seems  that Mr J stopped 
drawing down on the account  after October  2017 when Drafty found out Mr J had financial 
difficulties and put him on a rep[payment plan. Again, based on the limited information I have 
it appears an outstanding balance remains. 
This was a running  credit account where  a consumer could either  request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Js complaint. He thought  the checks  Drafty carried  out 
before granting  this facility were proportionate.  
However, our adjudicator  thought Drafty shouldve carried  out further checks  in July 2016, 
which is when Mr J returned  for further borrowing  having repaid his balance on in May 2016  
because he wasnt using  the facility as Drafty had intended. And had Drafty carried out 
further checks, it wouldve likely seen Mr J was making a significant number of betting 
transactions each  month and so further checks wouldve shown  he was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay  any further borrowing. 
Mr J appears  to have agreed  with the adjudicators recommendation.
However, Drafty didnt  respond to the adjudicators recommendation.  So I dont know what it 
thinks about the outcome that has been reached. As no agreement  was reached,  the case  
has now been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
When the facility  was approved, Drafty  needed  to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay  what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation.  Put simply Drafty had to gather enough 
information so that it could  make  an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
Ref: DRN15279922But to be clear, Mr J wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay  all of what  he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a period of 
at least 12 months. So overall,  I think that this means the checks Drafty carried  out had to 
provide enough information for it to be able to understand whether Mr J would likely be able 
to service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period of time.
As Ive said,  Mr J was granted a running credit facility with a £800 limit. According to the 
credit agreement, had he drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, 
and ran the facility  for 12 months,  he wouldve  paid a total of £1,058.24, meaning the 
monthly repayment would be around  £88. 
 
Drafty hasnt  provided us with the results  of the credit  checks  other than a score. This is 
meaningless without any other context around how this score is generated. However, Mr J 
has provided us with a copy  of his credit report. Ive reviewed Mr Js credit report and I dont 
think there was anything contained within it that shouldve led Drafty to either  carry out 
further checks or to decline Mr Js request for credit.  
Before granting the facility  Drafty  asked Mr J about his monthly  income, which  he confirmed 
was £1,500 per month and he also declared expenditure of £647 per month. On top of this 
Drafty has also told us that it completed a credit  check. Based  on the information that Drafty 
gathered it seemed that Mr J would be able to afford  the repayments he was committed to 
making. 
I also think, given  this was the start of the lending relationship, it was not unreasonable  for 
Drafty to have relied on the information  it was provided. So, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve extended  to Drafty  asking Mr J to evidence his declared income  and 
expenditure. Therefore, I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially approved the facility. 
However, that doesnt mean that Drafty  hasnt  done  anything wrong. Ive also looked  at how 
Mr J used the facility with a view to seeing if there  was a point  at which  Drafty  should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
This review of Mr J account was made  considerably more difficult because  despite being 
requested to do so, Drafty failed to provide this service with a statement of account. 
However, Mr J has provided us with his bank statements from the time that he was using the 
facility and so weve used this to try to understand how the facility  was used. 
It may help if I explain, that although I dont  think Drafty was wrong  to have provided the 
facility, that wasnt the end of its obligation  to Mr J.  When the facility was approved, Drafty 
was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA had issued guidance on 
this type of lending and what  it says should be expected from lenders when granting these 
types of loans. 
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action 
where there  are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties 
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful  of how Mr J used his facility  in order to 
step in if and when he showed  signs of possible financial  difficulties. 
Ref: DRN15279923Our adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve seen this by the time Mr J had repaid his balance 
on 18 May 2016. By this point, our adjudicator  thought  that Drafty would have seen that 
Mr Js borrowing history showed  he was potentially reliant on the facility because he would 
make a repayment and then quickly  come  back to borrow an amount  to take him back  up to 
his credit limit of £800.
By now, the adjudicator felt it wouldve been  proportionate for Drafty to have  carried out 
some further  checks on Mr Js financial  position. This ought to have included verifying the 
information he was providing about  his income and his expenditure. And had Drafty done 
this the adjudicator didnt think it wouldve continued to lend. 
By the time Mr J returned for further borrowing in July 2016 he wouldve  been using the 
facility for around 10 months. Although it seems the repayment in May cleared  the 
outstanding balance (based on the bank statements that Mr J has provided) when he 
returned for further borrowing  July 2016 this shouldve  put Drafty  on notice that further  
checks shouldve been carried  out.
Drafty couldve  asked for evidence of his income and expenditure via the way of wage slips 
and / or a copy of his credit file. Mr J has provided  us with his bank statements, so I dont 
think it is unreasonable to use these in order to gain an understanding  of his actual financial 
position at the time. 
Having looked  at Mr Js bank statements from July 2016 I think it is reasonably clear that 
Drafty shouldnt have allowed any further drawdowns. It seems that Mr Js income  at the 
time was around half of what Drafty  believed  around £640  per month. But proportionate 
checks wouldve likely shown Drafty  that Mr J was spending significant  amounts of money 
each month  on betting websites. And as a responsible lender it ought  to have realised that 
Mr J wouldnt  be able to sustainably take on any further drawdowns.   
In any event, Ive also reviewed Mr Js bank statements over the remainder of the borrowing 
relationship and there doesnt appear  to be an improvement in his financial position. His 
income fluctuates and there is also a time when Mr J is in receipt  of unemployment  benefit.  I 
can also see an increase  in the use of other  short-term loans, for example in 
September 2016 Mr J owed over £1,000 to these lenders. And he continued to use betting  
sites. So overall,  and like the adjudicator, I dont think  Drafty  shouldve allowed Mr J to 
continue to draw down on the facility once it was repaid in May 2016. 
As Ive explained above, Drafty  was required to monitor Mr Js account and step in where 
financial difficulty became  apparent. But I dont  think Drafty did this. I acknowledge that at 
the end of 2017 it seems that Drafty became aware  of Mr Js financial position  and it then put 
him on a repayment  plan.  But, in my opinion, had it carried out further  checks earlier  on it 
wouldve seen that Mr J wasnt able to take on further lending. 
So Im upholding  Mr Js complaint and I dont think Drafty  shouldve  allowed any further 
drawdowns after he made his repayment  in 18 May 2016.
Ref: DRN15279924putting things right  what I think  Drafty needs  to do
remove all the unpaid  interest, fees and charges applied  to the outstanding balance. 
Drafty should then re-work  the facility as if the entire interest element of each 
payment went towards the updated outstanding balance from 18 May 2016. But 
importantly, Drafty  needs to make sure that Mr J doesnt repay more than the 
principal amount he borrowed.   
If, after the account rework Mr J has already paid enough to fully repay the 
outstanding principal due then any overpayment  should be refunded to him with 8% 
simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Js credit file recorded  from 
May 2016.
If after doing the above, an outstanding balance remains then Mr J and Drafty should try 
and come to a mutually agreeable  repayment plan in order  to repay any outstanding 
principal. But I would  remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Mr J fairly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Js complaint.  
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1527992