K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  is unfairly  pursuing  him for 
repayment of an old credit card debt.  
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 2 June 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  that I wasnt persuaded by Mr Ts argument  that that 
Barclays shouldve written  off his debt. I also explained that I hadnt seen any evidence 
Barclays was taking  money from Mr T without his permission, so I didnt intend  to uphold that 
part of his complaint. I intended to award him £25 compensation for trouble  and upset 
because I could see that a letter Barclays sent Mr T couldve given him the mistaken 
impression that his debt was going  to be written off. I invited both parties to send any 
additional evidence  or comments they wished to make.  
Mr T replied, saying he still thinks Barclays should write off his debt and that the bank has 
treated him very poorly. He said again  that Barclays are taking money  from him. He says he 
wants to switch banks  but Barclays told him that hed still have to repay his debts if he did.
Barclays replied, agreeing  with my provisional  decision  that it had acted fairly and 
reasonably in its handling of Mr Ts debt. It disagreed with my provisional decision  to award 
Mr T £25 compensation for trouble and upset because the letter it sent was in response  to 
his complaint  and complaint handling  isnt something our service can consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available evidence  
and the wider circumstances.
I said in my provisional decision that I thought  it was reasonable that Barclays  hadnt written  
off Mr Ts debt because it didnt have up to date information about his financial position. Mr T 
still thinks Barclays should  write off the debt  but he hasnt submitted any new arguments or 
evidence to support  his view. For this reason, I see no reason to change  my provisional 
decision and I dont  uphold this aspect of Mr Ts complaint.   
I also said that without  evidence to support Mr Ts claims that Barclays were taking money 
from him without permission, I didnt intend to uphold this aspect of his complaint. In his 
reply, Mr T insisted  again that Barclays were taking money from him - but again didnt send 
statements or other evidence to support  this claim.  Without this evidence,  Ive based my 
decision on the account statements shared by Barclays.  These  show that the only payments 
into Mr Ts account are from the fortnightly standing  order that he set up and is able to 
cancel. If other money is being taken from Mr T  but Ive seen no evidence of this  it 
doesnt appear to be being credited to this account.    So although I dont doubt Mr T thinks 
Barclays is taking money  from him, I do not uphold this aspect of his complaint.
Ref: DRN18112922As I said in my provisional decision,  I suggest  Mr T speaks to Barclays again about his 
concerns. If Mr T is struggling  to repay  his borrowings, Barclays  is required to treat him 
positively and sympathetically  but I think its reasonable that the bank knows  his financial 
position before making a decision here, particularly if a default  could affect  his credit rating. 
Until this is resolved, Barclays is entitled  to seek  repayment from Mr T. Barclays  might  also 
be able to answer Mr Ts questions about  his standing order or Barclays  statements. I 
understand that Mr T finds the relationship with Barclays difficult, so he might  want  to 
consider speaking to a debt management charity  that can help him here.
Ive considered Barclays argument that Mr T shouldnt be awarded £25 compensation for 
trouble and upset,  which  I intended to do  and I accept this argument.  Barclays  sent the 
letter Mr T complained to us about  in response to his original complaint, so I agree it was 
part of its complaint handling process.  And complaint handling isnt considered to be a 
regulated activity  which is what our service is allowed to look at.
The rules  about  what our service can look at are set out in the dispute  resolution (DISP) 
rules in the FCA Handbook. If a complaint is about something that isnt a regulated  activity,
then this service simply cannot consider a complaint about  it  as to do so would  go against 
the rules were set up to operate under. So although  I know Mr T will be disappointed, my 
final decision  is that I cant consider this aspect of his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18112923Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is unfairly  pursuing him for repayment of an old credit 
card debt. 
background
Mr T has held a Barclaycard credit card for several  years. In August 2015,  he contacted Barclays to 
explain that he was in financial difficulties  and struggling  to manage his debts. Barclays agreed to a 
twelve month repayment plan, where  Mr T would pay £5 per month towards his credit card balance 
and Barclays wouldnt  add interest  or charges  to his account.
A year later,  Barclays  wrote  to Mr T saying his repayment plan had ended but he could  continue  with 
the same arrangement informally for another year. At the end of the following  year  in June 2017  
Barclays wrote  to Mr T saying this arrangement  had also ended so his credit card would return to its 
standard terms and conditions  and he would  need to make the minimum repayments.  The letter  said 
Mr T could contact Barclays to discuss his position if he needed to but he didnt reply.
Mr T continued to pay £2.50 into his account each fortnight, but once the payment plan ended he was 
charged a £12 late payment fee most months because this was less than the minimum payment 
required. He hasnt been charged interest since he was returned to his standard terms and conditions. 
He contacted Barclays  to complain about this. Barclays said that the charges had been applied 
correctly and that Mr T was making payments through a standing  order,  so it couldnt change the 
amount paid. But as a gesture of goodwill Barclays refunded £96 of late payment fees. 
Mr T continued to pay £2.50 towards his account fortnightly and Barclays continued  to charge him late 
payment fees in some months. Mr T said this meant his balance increased. He complained in January  
2019 that the payments were reducing  his income to unaffordable levels and the debt should be 
written off. He says Barclays is deducting payments  from his account  without his authority.  
Barclays sent Mr T three letters in response, including  one headed  Your Complaint to Barclays  
Debt to be Cancelled. Mr T got the impression from this letter that Barclays meant to write his debt 
off, so he was disappointed when  he received a final response  letter  a few weeks later telling him that 
Barclays wasnt upholding his complaint and he still needed  to repay  the outstanding  balance.
An adjudicator from our service considered Mr Ts complaint  but didnt  uphold it because they thought 
Barclays had been clear with Mr T about his outstanding balance,  and had treated him positively and 
sympathetically. Mr T didnt  agree with this and asked for an ombudsman decision,  so his complaint 
was referred to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I 
have made  my decision  based on the balance  of probabilities - that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available  evidence  and the wider circumstances.
Mr T is upset  that, because hes being charged fees on his borrowing,  the amount  he owes Barclays 
isnt reducing  even though hes making regular  payments.  I sympathise with Mr T but on balance, I 
dont uphold  this aspect of his complaint  Ill explain why.
When Mr T told Barclays about his financial difficulties  in 2015, it agreed a repayment plan based on 
his income and outgoings at the time. I think it treated  Mr T positively  and sympathetically  at that time, 
as its required to do.
Ref: DRN18112924Barclays wrote  to Mr T a year later, saying  that his repayment  plan could continue informally for 
another year and asking him to provide up-to-date details of his financial position  but he didnt reply. 
Another year later, in 2017, Barclays wrote to Mr T before  and after his account  was returned to its 
standard terms to explain  what would happen. This included a prominent message saying how Mr T 
could contact  Barclays  if he was worried  about making  the minimum  repayments, and gave contact 
details for debt management  charities. Barclays again asked Mr T to provide up-to-date financial 
information  but he didnt reply to these letters. Because Barclays wrote to Mr T several times and  
from everything Ive seen  so far - didnt  hear back from him, I dont find the bank had reason  to know 
or expect he had concerns about this change or that he couldnt afford the minimum repayments.  
After this happened, Mr Ts balance increased  from the charges. Mr T was upset about  this and 
complained to Barclays in 2018. In response, Barclays wrote off some of these  charges - but didnt 
consider a write-off or another  repayment plan. Ive considered whether that was enough  and, on 
balance, I think it was. I say that because Barclays  final response letter to Mr T asked him to get in 
touch to discuss his financial  difficulties  and an arrangement. But Mr T didnt contact  Barclays to do 
this  and I cant see hes tried to do so since.   And he isnt being  charged interest on his balance. I 
think it would be unreasonable to expect Barclays to have  done more  here when it didnt have up-to-
date information about his financial position to understand what  he could afford.  
I considered if Barclays treated Mr T fairly  when it kept him on the standard terms after 2017 when he 
often didnt make the monthly  repayments,  or if it wouldve been better  to default the account. This 
wouldve meant  he wasnt  being charged fees, but it wouldve shown as a default on his credit file and 
possibly made  it harder  for him to get credit in future.  But Barclays has explained that because Mr T 
has paid £2.50 each fortnight, he hasnt been consistently in arrears  for seven months  so his 
account wouldnt be considered in default. 
Taking everything together, although I sympathise with Mr T, my provisional decision is that I Barclays 
has acted reasonably in the circumstances.  Mr T hasnt been charged interest on his balance  since 
2017. Barclays has tried to contact Mr T about his account and financial position several times  since 
2015 but he hasnt replied.  I dont think it would  be fair to expect  Barclays to have written off Mr Ts 
debt, or put another repayment plan in place,  when  he hasnt contacted the bank to discuss his 
financial position. I understand Mr T is unhappy with Barclays but I encourage him to get in touch with 
the bank to discuss  an arrangement - and I expect Barclays to treat him positively and sympathetically 
if he does. Mr T might  also find it helpful to speak to a debt management charity  that might be able 
to help him in his discussions with Barclays - and I see hes been given contact details. 
Mr T also complains  that Barclays is taking money from his account  to pay his credit card.  Ive looked  
in this but havent  seen  anything to suggest thats happening. Mr Ts Barclays credit card statements  
show the fees hes been charged, and the minimum repayment  he should make, but these are 
amounts he owes and not money  hes actually paid. The statements show that the only payments 
towards his credit card are the £2.50 each fortnight hes told us about. These  payments are made  by 
standing order, so Mr T could cancel  or change the amounts  if he wanted  to. I cant  see that any other 
money has been taken. Because I havent seen any evidence that Barclays  is debiting Mr Ts account  
I dont intend to uphold this aspect of his complaint. But if Mr T can provide evidence that this money  
is being  debited without his agreement  such as copies of his bank  statements, a list of active  direct 
debits on his account, or written confirmation from his bank - I will reconsider this in my final decision. 
Taking everything together, I sympathise  that Mr T is in a difficult financial situation and feels  Barclays 
hasnt been supportive  but from what Ive seen  so far, Im not persuaded that Barclays should have  
written off his debt or that its taken money from him without his agreement. I think Barclays treated Mr 
T positively and sympathetically when he first explained his position, but because  of the time thats 
passed since  then I think its reasonable that Barclays needs to understand his up-to-date situation 
before it does anything more.
Ref: DRN18112925I encourage Mr T to speak to Barclays, in branch if he doesnt have access to a phone. Hopefully this 
will also clear  up the confusion about the payments he thinks Barclays are taking from him. I also 
encourage Mr T to speak to his bank account provider  to find out more about the payments from his 
account, and to submit  any further  evidence  hed like me to consider in my final decision. 
I considered if Barclays misled Mr T when  it wrote to him in January  2019.  I accept Barclays 
explanation that the letter  was titled Debt to be cancelled  because that was the subject of the letter,  
and not because it intended to cancel the debt. But I can also understand why the header,  taken  with 
the content  of the letter, might have given Mr T the wrong impression and led him to think his 
complaint was being upheld  and that he would  have been  disappointed  when he later realised that it 
wasnt. In the circumstances, I propose to award Mr T £25 compensation for trouble and upset, to be 
applied towards his credit card balance.   
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I propose to partially  uphold Mr Ts complaint for the reasons given 
and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to compensate him £25 for trouble  and upset. But I dont intend to 
ask it to do anymore.  
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1811292