K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a television accessory  he bought under a finance  agreement 
brokered by DSG Retail Limited, trading as Currys PC World.
background
In October  2015 Mr M bought a Samsung television and an evolution  kit under a hire 
purchase agreement  brokered by DSG. He says that the main reason he decided to buy that 
television was because  it came with the evolution  kit. The salesman told him that the 
evolution kit would enable  him to obtain  software and hardware updates so that the 
television would keep  up to date with new developments. It would not be necessary to 
replace the TV, as it would be future  proof.
This claim  turned out not to be true. In late 2017, by which time Mr M had made  all of his 
payments and owned the TV outright, he applied for an upgrade,  only to be told that 
Samsung had discontinued the evolution kit upgrades in 2016.
Mr M complained to DSG,  but it said it was not responsible. It suggested  that Mr M take up 
the matter with the manufacturer.  Instead, Mr M brought this complaint to our Service. DSG  
argued that this complaint did not fall within our jurisdiction.
Our investigator was not persuaded that he could not consider this complaint. But he 
decided that DSG had not done anything wrong.  When Mr M had bought the equipment,  
Samsung had not yet announced that it was discontinuing the upgrades, so DSG had not 
misled him. What it had told him had been  accurate at the time. He suggested that Mr M 
take Samsung to court.  
Mr M asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  He said the evolution  kit should operate  as 
advertised for at least six years after it was sold.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Before I do that, I will briefly address  DSGs objection to our Service  considering this 
complaint. Mr M is complaining about  goods  he bought under a finance  agreement brokered 
by DSG. He complains that (1) the goods  do not function as advertised,  and (2) he was 
misled by DSGs salesman into buying them, when  he would not have bought them  had he 
known the true position. DSG is not responsible for the first issue, but as the broker of a 
regulated credit agreement it is responsible for what it told Mr M at the point of sale. So I can 
consider this issue.
However, what DSG told Mr M was true when  it told him. It is not responsible  for Samsungs  
subsequent decision, in 2016, to withdraw the service it had been providing.  Im afraid that is 
a matter between  Mr M and Samsung.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN10710722Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1071072