K821x#15complaint
A company which Ill refer to as B, complains that AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA)  has 
declined a claim made against  its commercial property insurance policy.
Mr S is a director  of B and brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
background
B owned a property comprised of a large detached house which was used for offices and 
some outbuildings, including a large double-storey stable block. In September 2017, there 
was a fire in the stable which caused  extensive damage.  It was concluded that the fire was 
caused by intruders, so B made  a claim against  its property insurance with AXA.
There was initially a long period where  AXA wasnt provided with the information it had 
requested, however it ultimately decided to decline the claim. AXA said that the stable wasnt  
covered under the policy, which only referred to offices being  covered. It didnt  have any 
original documentation  about the sale of the policy confirming what was covered as the first 
sale took place  so long ago  over 10 years ago, and there  is some  suggestion  that the 
original policy was incepted in the 1990s.  AXA also commented on the valuation  that had 
been given for the property and noted that this only seemed to cover the value of the main  
building, not the outbuildings  which it said reinforced  that the intention was only ever for 
the main building to be covered.
AXA also said that if this wasnt the case,  there  were  questions over whether  its conditions 
for unoccupied properties were met. And it said that the stable block was derelict  in any 
case, meaning it had no intrinsic value  and therefore it didnt need to make any payment  
towards this claim. It referred to some  planning  applications that B had made to change  the 
use of the land, which included having  the stable block demolished.  So it concluded that B 
hadnt insured  the property as it believed its intention was to keep costs down while it waited  
for the conclusion of the planning application.
B disagrees  with AXAs conclusions  and says it always  intended  to insure  the entire 
property, including  the stable block, which was once  used as offices and storage. And it has 
stated that it will discuss the issue of whether the property was undervalued at a later date 
once the issue  of liability is concluded. It disagrees that the building  was derelict, although 
agrees it hasnt been used in some years  and it had allowed vegetation to grow around  the 
property.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that the wording of 
the policy suggested the stable block was insured as an outbuilding  and so he thought AXA 
should consider  the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.  He also commented 
that he didnt think the proposed demolition of the outbuilding was a reason for AXA to 
refuse to accept the claim.
AXA didnt agree with our investigator,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached a similar 
conclusion to that of our investigator.
Ref: DRN10902822Where the evidence is unclear or unavailable,  as much of it is in this case, I have reached 
my conclusions on balance and based  on what I believe  to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered whether I think there  is cover  under the policy  for the barn. Unfortunately 
there is very little evidence in this case as neither party has been  able to provide evidence of 
what was discussed  at the point  of sale. And the AXA representative who sold the policy  and 
the representative who acted on behalf  of B are both unable  to give much information about  
this.
So I have  considered the wording of the policy  itself.  The policy schedule gives  the address 
of the premises  to be covered. It then goes on to specify  that the cover is for office(s) and 
gives a sum insured under  the header Buildings. The policy  document then specifies that 
Building(s) is defined  as The buildings, outbuildings,  extensions, and garages together 
with landlords  fixtures  and fittings in or on them...on the premises and extending to the 
public mains, but only to the extent of your responsibility".
The word  outbuilding isnt defined in the policy wording, but I think it would be fair and 
reasonable to consider the stable building  a building that stood close to the main property 
and was built of similar materials  to be an outbuilding, based  on its usual meaning. And its 
clear that the stable  block is on the premises insured.
AXA has stated that the stables had been  scheduled for demolition,  so it didnt believe B 
intended to cover the building   but I havent seen any evidence  that was the case.  And, 
given that no planning permission had been granted at the time of the policys inception,  on 
balance I dont think the fact that B was considering  demolishing  the building is enough  to 
suggest that it didnt intend to insure the building in the intervening period.
AXA has also said that B was asked whether it intended to cover  the office risk only 
however I think there are several  ways  that could be interpreted and given that this is a 
commercial buildings  insurance policy I dont think it would be uncommon  for the agent 
taking the details to check that there  were  no additional risks B wanted  to cover. So again, 
on balance, I dont  think this is enough  to suggest that B didnt intend to cover  the stables  
when taking out the policy.
I have also considered whether the use of the word office(s) in the policy  schedule  
suggests that it was only the main house that B intended to cover   but I dont consider that 
to be the case.  The policy specifically states that buildings  cover  includes outbuildings, so 
Im not satisfied that the schedule needed to include additional  wording to ensure the 
outbuilding, in this case the stable block, was covered under the policy.
There is no dispute that a fire occurred and that its an insured peril under the policy, so I 
havent considered that aspect of the policy further.
AXA has also said that it believes the stables had no intrinsic value  but I havent seen any 
evidence to support  that position. AXA has stated that its likely  that, as the stables were  
derelict, they didnt  add any value to property. However I would  expect AXA to provide 
evidence to support  its position if it intended to rely on that position.
AXA has raised other concerns as part of the claim and I have seen reference to arguments 
relating to misrepresentation of risk, the value  of the stable block,  underinsurance and a 
Ref: DRN10902823breach of a policy condition.  However  at this time,  AXA has declined  the claim on the basis  
that it doesnt believe the stable block was insured under the policy so hasnt taken steps to 
investigate the remaining  areas of concern. As AXA hasnt investigated those areas  yet, I 
havent commented on them further  here.
So, taking everything  into account, Im not satisfied that AXA has acted fairly in declining the 
claim on the basis that the stable blocks werent  insured  under the policy.  So I think  AXA 
should reconsider the claim under the remaining terms of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should  put things 
right by reconsidering the claim under  the remaining terms of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 3 April 2021.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1090282