K821x#15complaint
Miss P and Ms K complain about poor handling  of their claim by their home insurer,  UK 
Insurance Limited, for damage to their home  from an escape  of water.
background
In September  2017 Miss P and Ms Ks home suffered an escape of water on the ground  
floor which damaged their kitchen  and lounge. The claim involved  multiple  parties and 
repairs became protracted, particularly when  further  damage occurred.
Miss P and Ms K have  raised two previous complaints about the handling of their claim.  In 
response UKI has apologised for its poor service and paid them  £1,750 compensation.
Miss P and Ms K brought a new complaint  to UKI for events since  June 2018.  These  include:  
late payments  poor communications - poor customer service  delays - having to manage 
the claim - disability discrimination - damage  by contractors. Miss P and Ms K said these 
problems caused  them to become very stressed with a detrimental impact on their health.
In its response to Miss P and Ms Ks complaint UKI acknowledged the delays and frustration 
they have suffered and paid further compensation of £1,250.  UKI said it would work hard to 
complete the remainder  of the claim without avoidable problems. UKI has continued to 
provide alternative  accommodation for Miss P and Ms K until the present time.
Miss P and Ms K werent happy with UKIs  response  and brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She thought UKIs delays had 
prolonged the claim, but said its payment of compensation  was fair. She recommended an 
independent survey of Miss P and Ms Ks home  to put reinstatement works back on track.
Miss P wasnt happy with this. She said UKI should make  repairs  to the first floor of her 
home. And said UKI should  meet the cost of private medical treatment as she had to cancel 
this previously due to the stress of the claim and not being able to recuperate at home.  
However, since then there have  been two surveys  of Miss P and Ms Ks home (one by UKIs 
surveyor and one by Miss Ps chosen surveyor) paid for by UKI. UKI had concerns about the 
cost of repair within the latter survey but made  a cash  settlement offer based  on the reports. 
Miss P rejected the initial offers. UKI made  its final offer in October 2020 consisting of: 
a cash settlement of £35,887.61:
continuation  of alternative accommodation  until 11 June  2021  - without  an option of 
further extension: 
meeting the cost of utilities until June 2021:
the cost of moving contents back to insured property by or before June 2021.
UKI said it has yet to hear from Miss P in response to this offer.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint. She thought UKIs  offer met Miss Ps previous 
objections and is a fair resolution of the claim.  She said details  of Miss Ps medical treatment  
arent available,  but it wasnt  fair for UKI to pay for this as Miss P maintained  her lifestyle  
after treatment was cancelled and she couldnt pinpoint the impact of the cancellation.
Ref: DRN13425842The investigator said Miss P had constantly  complained about poor communication  from UKI 
and this was significant in view of their health  conditions. She said at one point, Miss P and 
Ms K were at risk of eviction  from the alternative  accommodation. And Miss P had to chase 
payments previously agreed. She said poor service  impacted on Miss Ps mental wellbeing,  
and UKI should  pay compensation of £750  on top of the £1,250  it had already offered. 
UKI has agreed to the further compensation.
Miss P and Ms K disagreed with the investigator and requested  an ombudsman review  their 
complaint. Miss P said UKIs  offer of settlement  doesnt take account of the second 
surveyors findings or their damaged contents. She said its far less than needed to pay for 
the repairs. She said compensation for the prolonged distress  should cover the longevity of 
the complaint  given  her medical evidence.  Miss P felt UKI should pay for her treatment 
because it didnt happen as she was facing  eviction at the time she would be recuperating.
Miss P said the extension  of alternative accommodation until June  2021  was reasonable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes all information about  the 
claim and Miss Ps medical information.
Ive looked closely  at the timeline of events  and both parties submissions about what  took 
place to see if UKI made a reasonable offer of settlement of the claim, and for compensation 
payable for the distress  and inconvenience Miss P and Ms K have suffered. I havent looked 
at issues before 12 June  2018, which were covered in the previous complaints. I understand 
that damage by UKIs contractors has been, or will be put right as part of the resolution of 
Miss P and Ms Ks claim.
I can see that UKI made  payments for Miss P and Ms Ks alternative accommodation and 
aspects of the claim including ongoing costs. Part of the complaint concerns the delay in 
reimbursing Miss P for her costs.  I note that UKIs offer includes reimbursement of further 
utility costs. I dont think Miss P should  have had to chase payment for these and UKI should 
respond promptly to all further requests. 
Im pleased that UKI has said Miss P and Ms K can remain in alternative  accommodation  
until June 2021.  This appears to be a realistic  assessment of the time required for 
reinstatement of their home. The uncertainty around the duration of Miss P and Ms Ks 
previous accommodation was regrettable  and should have been avoided by UKI.
We arent expert in assessing the repairs and the costs needed to make  these good and so 
we place reliance  on expert reports. Ive looked  at the settlement offer put forward  by UKI 
and see that it is based  on the reports from Miss Ps selected surveyor  and its own. UKI has 
explained its concerns with parts  of the report from Miss Ps surveyor  but has adopted 
quotes from the report where relevant.  In the absence of further explanation from Miss P I 
think UKI has taken all of the repairs and replacements into consideration and I think its 
made a fair and reasonable offer of settlement in the circumstances. 
UKI has already  paid Miss P and Ms K compensation of £1,250 for this complaint, totalling 
£3,000 overall.  Our investigator recommended  this be increased by a further payment of 
£750.
Ref: DRN13425843From the records I can see that this has been a complex claim, involving a number of UKIs 
agents in drying  out and the removal of asbestos and assessment of the damage.  It is 
inherent in this situation that there will be disruption and stress caused  to the policyholders. 
My role is to determine if this any of this has been unnecessary or avoidable and therefore 
should be further compensated.
Miss P says that UKI mismanaged the claim, caused delays and communicated  very poorly. 
I can see that Miss P felt she had to manage the claim and I think  UKI could have exercised 
greater control over the parties involved and kept Miss P updated. UKI has acknowledged  
that it should have communicated better with Miss P and this fact is evidenced at almost 
every stage of the claim. 
I can well understand  how upset Miss P and Ms K are over the prolonged duration of the 
claim. UKI made little or no progress for a long time but the claim was back on track when 
both parties agreed  to the independent  survey. From the records I can see that UKI 
reviewed the expert reports and used these as a base for its offer. UKI considered Miss Ps 
rejection of the offer, responded  to her and increased its offer. Miss P said she would 
respond further after consulting her selected  surveyor. I havent seen any response from 
Miss P but notwithstanding this UKI further  improved  its offer of settlement. I think  this shows  
that UKI was, belatedly,  acting to progress and resolve the claim.
Although I can see that UKI was responsible for delays,  the records show  delays where Miss 
Ps health problems  caused work  to be paused and this led to other unrelated problems.  
Consequently, I think that it would be unfair to conclude that UKI is solely responsible  for the 
delays. UKI is confident  repairs can be completed  by June 2021.
UKI has offered  to cover  the cost of returning Miss P and Ms Ks contents when they return  
home. Miss P is concerned about  damage, but as the contents are still in storage, this is 
difficult to assess. UKI should assess any damage  with Miss P when the contents  are 
returned and consider  replacements  where  appropriate.
Miss P also complained  about being  discriminated against due to her disability.  She provided 
letters about  her medical  condition  and treatment, however, these dont take into account the 
progress on her claim since her previous complaint. Im sorry that Miss P felt discriminated 
against, and I can see that UKI was aware of her medical condition and treatment. But I 
havent seen anything to show that UKI or its agents discriminated against her because  of 
her disability. Im pleased that UKI belatedly agreed to Miss Ps request for a dedicated point 
of contact in its letter  of February 2019  and Miss P hasnt raised this part of her complaint 
again. 
Although I havent  found that UKI is wholly to blame  for the problems  that have beset Miss P 
and Ms Ks claim, I think Miss P and Ms K have received  very poor service  from UKI and its 
agents. Its clear from what Miss P has said that she feels their health has taken a sharply 
downward turn due to the stress and prolonged delays in the handling of their claim.  All-in-
all, I think the investigator has got it right in recommending that UKI pay Miss P and Ms K 
further compensation of £750  for the distress and inconvenience they have  suffered. This 
brings a total payment of £2,000 compensation in respect of the present complaint, and 
£3,750 overall.
If Miss P and Ms K now accept UKIs  offer of settlement  of their claim, it appears that rapid 
progress can be made on the repairs within the June  2021 timeframe set by UKI.
Ref: DRN13425844my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require UK 
Insurance Limited to pay Miss P and Ms K further  compensation of £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience they have suffered. This is in addition to the compensation of £1,250 that UK 
Insurance Limited has already paid to Miss P and Ms K for this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and Ms K 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1342584