K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Mrs H, in their roles as trustees of a Trust, feel that National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
(NatWest) has treated them unfairly in relation  to the failed opening of a savings account and 
the consequent loss of interest.
background
Mr H and Mrs H applied to open a Premium Saver account in July 2016. They held an 
Instant Saver account with funds from the trust in it. They wanted to move  this money to get 
a higher interest rate. They believed this had been done and the new account was accruing 
the higher interest rate. On discovery the new account hadnt been opened they complained  
in 2018 and asked for the interest missed out upon  to be credited.
NatWest hasnt been able to explain why the new account wasnt  opened and hasnt been 
able to provide  all the evidence it should have been able to provide. But it has said to Mr H 
and Mrs H that they shouldnt have left it so long before asking what happened.  So it said 
sorry for its failings but didnt give Mr H and Mrs H what they wanted in terms of a resolution. 
So they complained here.
Our adjudicator looked into the matter  and found fault on both sides.  He awarded £100 for 
the inconvenience suffered. But agreed with NatWest that the interested missed out on didnt 
need to be paid because Mr H and Mrs H did or should have  known something  had gone  
wrong and done  something about  it.
NatWest agreed to pay the £100  for its failings. On behalf of the Trust Mr H and Mrs H said 
they accepted the £100  for inconvenience but wanted the interest  also so they asked for an 
Ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
In essence there is broad  agreement between  the parties as to what happened here-the 
application didnt  go through  and nor did the transfer to the higher interest rate. So, the only 
matter to be decided  is what is fair and reasonable for NatWest  to do to make things right.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I think the suggested  settlement of £100 only is 
fair. I say this for the following reasons which I see as key to this complaint.
Although clearly NatWest  hasnt processed  the application for a new account as it would 
have liked to I think Mr H and Mrs H were on notice  soon after the event that the transfer  
from one account  to the new account and interest  rate hadnt taken place. NatWest  has 
pointed to the fact that it continued  to issue statements for the original account to the 
trustees and did so throughout the period  from when the application was made to when Mr H 
complained on behalf of the trust.
These statements  showed that no transfer had taken place. They  also showed the interest  
rate applied was that belonging to the first account and not the account Mr H and Mrs H 
were applying for. And as Mr H has said there  is a significant and obvious difference 
between the rates of interest. Mr H has argued that because of his knowledge and 
Ref: DRN13524072experience he appreciated at the time of application  that NatWest  were telling him things 
that werent true. And I can see from how he articulates his arguments and how he has kept 
documentation from the time hes an organised, diligent and intelligent individual.  So I think  it 
likely that had he managed his accounts  as he ought, he would have noticed that there had 
been no transfer and that the account was still getting the old interest rate and not the 
interest rate that went with the account being applied  for. 
Furthermore on opening a new account for such an important account  as that which  held a 
trust, its clear that banks generally  issue the appropriate documentation  and then are 
obliged to issue statements for such an account regularly. The absence  of these documents  
also did or should have put Mr H and Mrs H on notice that there was a problem.
I have not seen any evidence of any mistake  on NatWests  part with regard to sending 
statements for the first account to where it ought  to send  them.  So Im satisfied the trustees 
would have received them. So they were on notice that the transfer hadnt happened and no 
new higher interest  rate had been applied to the funds in the trust.
NatWest didnt open the account properly and didnt  get in contact with Mr H and Mrs H as it 
should have. However Im satisfied on balance that Mr H and Mrs H did or ought reasonably 
to have known  that things  had gone wrong  with their application relatively promptly  
afterwards. Accordingly I dont think that the Trust should be awarded any additional interest 
to that it naturally and actually accrued in the account it was held in during the timeframe in 
question.
Consequently seeing that NatWest has agreed  to pay £100 in inconvenience to the Trust 
and that Mr H and Mrs H are willing to accept it I think that this suggested settlement is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate this isnt the decision that Mr H and Mrs H wants to hear. But I think  that 
NatWest hasnt done anything sufficiently wrong  for me to make  it take further action here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I award the suggested settlement of £100 in this complaint 
against National Westminster Bank  Plc. Once  it has paid this sum to the Trust it doesnt  
need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H and Mrs H 
in their capacities as trustees to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1352407