K820x#14complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the amount of benefit shes been paid following claims made to Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited under a group income protection insurance  policy. 
background
Ms F holds a group  income  protection policy through her employer which is underwritten by 
Aviva. The policy provides  a monthly benefit after a deferred period if shes  unable to work in 
her normal  occupation  because of illness or injury. The policy pays 50% of her salary  and 
Miss F makes additional monthly payments to top this up by a further 25% meaning the total 
cover is 75%.
Miss F previously received benefit under the policy for a period she was off work in 2014. 
She raised  concerns about the amount of benefit shed received for that claim. Aviva  
accepted that benefit had been incorrectly calculated as it hadnt taken into account her 25% 
top up payment.  It made a backdated payment for this. 
Following that Miss F was unwell again. Aviva  initially turned down this claim but after 
considering further  medical evidence it accepted it from November 2016. Payments began  in 
November 2017  as the policy had a deferred  period and Aviva  says Miss F was in receipt of 
continuing income. Miss F complained to us about  issues relating to this decision; her 
concerns included that Aviva hadnt told her what new evidence led it to change its initial 
decision and that it had requested medical information that wasnt necessary to assess her 
claim. An investigator thought Aviva acted appropriately when handling that claim and that 
case closed in July 2018.
Miss F got back  in touch  with us again last year as she was unhappy with the amount now in 
payment for her claim.  She said she wasnt receiving the 75% of salary she was entitled to 
as she was having to pay tax on this. She also said the sum had been reduced  by the 
amount of state  benefits she could claim but she wasnt in receipt of these. And she thought 
as she was paying additional  premiums  to top up her policy  the benefit from that element 
should be paid direct to her. 
She was also unhappy  that for her 2014 claim another  insurance  policy  had been taken into 
account when  calculating benefit which she didnt think should  have  happened.  And she said 
the compensation Aviva had offered following her previous  complaint  hadnt been paid to 
her. She also reiterated her concerns about  the medical evidence  Aviva sought when 
assessing this claim.   
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in November last year.  In summary  I said:
I appreciate Miss F has been through a lot and has found this process extremely difficult. 
Shes outlined  to us some  of the issues shes faced  and I was very sorry to learn of the 
problems shes experienced. But it does seem  to me that some  of those issues relate  to 
matters for which her employer is responsible. That isnt something I can consider. What I 
can look at is whether Aviva has done  what it should. 
Miss F asked to speak  to the ombudsman looking into her complaint. So Ive thought about 
whether thats  necessary in order to reach  a fair decision. I dont think  it is. From the file I 
can see that Miss F has gone into some detail about the issues which are of concern to her 
and Aviva has also provided its comments. And I think  I have enough information to set out 
Ref: DRN18631952my thinking  on the complaint. Of course if either  Miss F or Aviva disagree with what  Ive said 
they have the opportunity to let me know in response to this provisional decision. I also 
appreciate that, given  what  Miss F has told us about her situation,  she may need  additional  
time to respond. If thats the case she should  let the investigator looking after the complaint 
know. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. So Ive taken that into 
account when  looking at this complaint. 
Was the top up element of Miss Fs policy separate from the part her employer pays for?
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Fs policy and her policy  schedule.  The 
schedule says that members included within certain  categories can choose  to increase their 
benefit to 75% of salary less Base ESA and Work-Related Activity  Component  for an 
additional cost.  However,  theres no indication that forms part of a separate  insurance 
contract between Miss F and Aviva. 
I appreciate that Miss F made separate payment for this but the evidence  Ive seen suggests 
this was an enhancement of her existing  cover not a separate  policy.  So I think  its 
reasonable to say the terms of the existing cover would also apply to this element of it. And 
her policy contains  a terms which says We will normally pay all benefit (including  any lump  
sum) under  this policy to the policyholder. So I dont think Aviva  has done  anything wrong in 
making payments  in line with this term. 
Should Miss Fs benefit have income  tax deducted from it?
I can see theres been considerable discussion around this point and Miss F has provided 
evidence in support  of her view that income protection benefit isnt taxable which includes 
information from our website. However, my understanding is that relates to policies someone 
has taken out personally.  
And the tax position is different for group income protection policies  because  the employer 
can potentially reclaim the cost against  corporation tax meaning benefit  would be subject to 
income tax in the event of a claim. I appreciate Miss F feels  the 25% top up element of her 
policy is something shes taken out personally but Ive already concluded it isnt separate 
from the main policy.  
In any case I dont  think this is an issue that affects  the outcome of the complaint against 
Aviva. Thats  because regardless of whether the benefit should have been taxed or not 
Aviva hasnt done that. It says it passed on the benefit without tax deducted  to Miss Fs 
employer and Ive seen a remittance advice  letter  to her employer from Aviva  confirming 
thats what its done. I also understand Aviva did make Miss Fs employer aware  of her 
queries about  the tax position.  Its unfortunate if she hasnt received a clear  answer from her 
employer but that isnt something I can consider. 
If Miss F does have outstanding queries I think that is something shell need to pursue with 
her employer. And her concerns about  what she was told about  the top up policy  when she 
took it out appear to relate to information  which her employer would be responsible  for. If 
thats right thats  also an issue  shell need to raise with them. 
Deduction of benefits from Miss Fs claim
Ref: DRN18631953Its not in dispute  that Aviva has deducted  Employment Support Allowance and Work 
Related Activity Component from Miss Fs claim before paying that to her employer. I dont 
think its in dispute  that Miss F wasnt in receipt of those benefits.  But I can also see that her 
policy schedule says:
Core benefit: 50% of salary less base ESA and Work-Related  Activity  Component  whether 
received or not
Aviva says that was the basis on which it agreed  to provide the group  income  protection 
policy and it was priced accordingly.  And I think it is clear from the schedule those amounts 
will be deducted from the benefit whether or not they are in payment. I appreciate  Miss F 
feels that different  rules  should apply to the 25% top up element of her cover.  But I dont 
think thats right because the policy  schedule also says:
Members can choose to increase their benefit to 75% of salary  less base ESA and Work-
Related Activity Component for an additional  cost.
I think its clear  from that the top up element of the cover would also be paid with the 
deduction of these elements in line with the rest of the policy. I dont think it would be right 
for Aviva to increase Miss Fs benefits above the amount shes insured  for to compensate 
her for the fact shes not entitled to state benefits.  So I dont think  Aviva  has done anything  
wrong here.  
Miss F is also unhappy the WRAC element has been deducted from her claim despite  this 
being abolished in 2016. Aviva has said although Miss Fs claim wasnt in payment until 
November 2017  she stopped work in November 2016 and it applies the rates  of ESA and 
WRAC applicable at that time. I note a briefing paper from the House of Commons Library 
says although  the legislation to remove WRAC became law in 2016 the changes came into 
effect from April 2017  for new claimants  from that date onwards. So Im satisfied  that in 
November 2016  WRAC would still have been in place.  
I appreciate the position had changed  by the time Miss Fs claim was in payment. However, 
Ive looked at the terms of her policy and can see that these  say we will pay total benefit if 
immediately before the start of incapacity  the member was actively at work and following 
their job role.
Total benefit  is defined  in the policy as the benefit calculated as described in the policy 
schedule. And as set out above  the policy schedule says thats  50%  of salary  less base 
ESA and Work-Related  Activity Component whether received or not. I can see the salary 
calculation is based on the position prior to incapacity commencing so I dont think  Aviva has 
acted unfairly in applying the same approach in this case in respect  of the position  on ESA 
and WRAC. It seems to me that the insured event in this case is Miss Fs incapacity and its 
reasonable to assess what  benefit  she should  be entitled to at the point that took place. 
Ref: DRN18631954Other issues
I appreciate Miss F has raised other matters in her correspondence  with us about  this 
complaint. But I think  some of these  are matters that weve already considered  separately.  
For example her concerns about the medical information that was requested  were  
considered as part of the previous complaint  which was closed in 2018. And if Miss F has 
concerns about  the payment of compensation which Aviva agreed  to pay as part of that 
complaint thats  something shell need to raise with the investigator who looked  into it 
(though as it appears payments were made to the policyholder  which is her employer - this 
may also be something she wants to raise  with them). 
In addition while I understand  shes concerned about the frequency  of reviews  going forward  
and how theyll be conducted Im not clear  thats something shes  raised  with Aviva so far. 
And it would need  an opportunity to consider this before we could look into it. It doesnt form 
part of the issues  that Im looking at as part of her current complaint so Ive not considered  it 
in this decision. 
Miss F has also raised  what appear to be new concerns about how her entitlement to benefit  
was calculated in relation  to the 2014  claim.  In particular that deductions should be in 
proportion to the time the claim was payable  for. But again this doesnt appear to have been  
specifically raised  with Aviva to date so that is something it will need the opportunity  to 
consider before we could investigate. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss F asked for additional time at the start 
of December but we havent  heard from her since then then. Our investigator  confirmed at 
the start of this month  that Id move forward to reach  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided me with any further  evidence to consider I dont have any 
reason to change  the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1863195