K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that EuroNetCash  LLC (trading as Onstride Financial) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
Onstride lent Miss M two instalment loans  between April 2015 and April 2016. Loan  1 was 
for £2,200  which Miss M had to repay  over 36 monthly  instalments  of £137.03. Miss M 
repaid the first loan in November 2015  earlier than the contractual  date.
Miss M borrowed  loan 2 in April 2016  for £3,100 and she had to repay it over 36 monthly  
instalments of £140.70.
When Miss M complained  to Onstride, it didnt  uphold her complaint  and so Miss M referred 
her complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our 
adjudicator thought that Onstride  did enough before lending any of the loans so she didnt 
recommend that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld.
Miss M disagreed and so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Onstride needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
Ive thought about all the information in this case and I can see that before Onstride lent loan 
1 to Miss M, it searched her credit  file and it has provided the results of its search  and from 
what I can see there was nothing within the file that shouldve concerned  Onstride.
I can also see that Onstride asked Miss M about  her income and requested  a payslip and 
bank statements which Miss M provided.  Miss M declared her income  as £1,172  and the 
payslip she provided  to Onstride  showed that her actual income was £1,174.16. Ive 
reviewed Miss Ms bank statement and I cant see that her monthly expenses  at the time 
suggest that shed struggle to make  the monthly loan repayment over the term.
At the time of loan 2, Onstride again  searched Miss Ms credit file and the results provided 
didnt show any concerning entries. Onstride asked Miss M about  her income and expenses 
and Miss M declared her income as £1,519  and her monthly expenses as £850.
Ref: DRN16563452Given that Miss M repaid loan 1 early and there was a gap of around five months  between  
when she repaid loan 1 and when she borrowed loan 2, I think  Onstride could  reasonably 
believe that she wasnt dependent  on the loans and it was fair for it to rely on the information 
she provided. The fact that Onstride saw Miss Ms bank statements and payslip before 
lending loan 1 doesnt automatically mean  that it shouldve carried out the same level of 
checks before agreeing  to lend loan 2.
I think in the circumstances, Onstride was entitled to rely on the information Miss M provided 
and the information suggested  that she was in a position to sustainably meet the monthly 
repayments for her loan.
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicator, she says she was borrowing from another  lender to 
repay Onstride and has provided evidence to show this. She says the loans were  
unaffordable for her.
While I dont doubt that Miss M was borrowing from other lenders which  meant she couldnt 
afford the loans, this wasnt something  Onstride was aware of. When Onstride lent loan1,  
Miss Ms bank statement didnt show an unsustainable level of indebtedness and so the 
checks showed that Miss M could afford the loan. By the time of loan 2, I think  Onstride  did 
enough and its proportionate checks didnt  reveal that Miss M would struggle to repay  the 
loan as her disposable income was more than £600. I can see that Miss M took out a loan 
from another lender after Onstride approved loan 2. I cant see that Miss M told Onstride 
about outgoings that suggest she couldnt afford the loans and it wasnt something Onstride  
discovered from proportionate checks. In the circumstances, I dont think Onstride was 
wrong to lend either loan.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Miss M but I hope  my explanation  is 
helpful in understanding  why Ive reached this decision.
If theres still an outstanding balance on loan 2, Id remind  Onstride to deal with Miss M 
sympathetically in coming to an arrangement  on how the balance is repaid.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint and I make no award  
against EuroNetCash LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
Tola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1656345