K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled  him into thinking hed obtained a loan with 
them which they then declined.
background
Mr S says that he applied  online for a loan with HSBC on 22nd November 2018  at around 
4pm. The result of his application was that the decision on the loan had been referred and 
Mr S would hear back from HSBC within 24 hours.
On the morning of 23rd November  Mr S got in touch with HSBC through online banking live 
chat. He says HSBC  told him that he needed  to call their telephone  banking service because  
some further  detail was needed and that after that he should be able to have  his loan.
So Mr S called HSBC  that same  morning and was on the phone  for almost two hours 
because the HSBC adviser could not get through to the underwriting department.
Towards the end of the call, he was told that he needed to go to a branch as the 
underwriting department required proof  of income. Mr S says that he was also told that once 
hed done that, the loan would be approved. A meeting in branch was booked for that 
afternoon.
At that meeting Mr S says he was advised  by an HSBC  employee that hed been  accepted  
and approved for a loan with an 8.9% APR. He provided proof of address and identity,  as 
well as proof of income. 
However, his application  was ultimately declined due to his debt/income ratio being high. 
Mr S complained to HSBC about  what had happened.  He says HSBC had completely misled  
him into thinking hed been approved for the loan. He says that the purpose of the loan was 
for debt consolidation which is why the debt to income ratio might seem  high.  Mr S says he 
has a good income  and has never missed a payment.
HSBC say that Mr Ss loan application has been reviewed by a senior manager within the 
underwriting team and they dont agree that they were wrong to decline  the application. 
But they accept  they shouldve provided  Mr S with a better service. It was not acceptable 
that hed had to wait on the phone for two hours when he called  telephone  banking and 
theyve given feedback to the team manager.  HSBC  also say that in hindsight it wouldve 
been better to assess affordability before asking for proof of income. HSBC have apologised 
for any upset and inconvenience Mr S had been  caused and offered £150 compensation.
Our investigator thought that HSBC  had treated Mr S fairly. Theyd reviewed whether they 
shouldve given him the loan, but concluded  that it was unaffordable. However, there were 
some errors in the ways HSBC had communicated  with Mr S and she thought the offer of 
£150 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN15033112Mr S does not agree. He says that HSBC were  grossly negligent in the various ways they 
misled him into thinking he was going  to get the loan. He feels it was not acceptable for 
HSBC to ask him to go to a branch if they knew that they werent  going  to lend to him. He 
says he was caused significant inconvenience and stress. So compensation of £750 would 
more accurately reflect the impact of what happened.
 And so this case has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S feels strongly that HSBC have treated him unfairly. The loan was 
important to him and he feels  HSBC  misled him into thinking hed been approved for it. They 
wasted his time and caused him considerable stress and inconvenience.
But while I think HSBC shouldve communicated better  with Mr S, I dont think  they made  an 
error when  they refused to lend to him. And I consider  £150  compensation to fairly and 
reasonably reflect the extent of what they did get wrong. I shall explain my reasons. And 
while I may not refer to every point Mr S has raised  here, I have taken everything he has 
said into account in reaching my decision.
Following Mr Ss online application which advised  that the decision on the loan had been 
referred, Mr S communicated with an online live chat adviser  the next morning. Ive seen the 
record of this conversation and when Mr S asked for an update on his application  he was 
told:
I checked on your account  and it seems that our Telephone  banking team needs to 
ask you some questions about your application on the loan. Basically they will just 
ask you some questions based on your account after that you should be able to have 
your loan.
While of course a loan is not guaranteed before the application process is concluded, I can 
see how Mr S might  understand this to mean that there wouldnt be an issue with him getting 
the loan. And I do think the online chat advisor  shouldve said more about how HSBC 
needed to review everything  before  deciding  whether or not to lend to him. 
Ive listened to Mr Ss call to HSBC  that same morning. The discussion is about  the 
documents Mr S needs to take in to a branch  and arranging an appointment. I dont  think the 
advisor says anything that would make Mr S think  that HSBC  were definitely giving him the 
loan. 
But in my view its not reasonable for that call to have lasted the length it did  Mr S was on 
hold for a long period of time and I am pleased to see that HSBC  accept that.
Mr S says that he felt he was also misled when he attended the branch  meeting with all his 
documents because  he was told that hed been accepted and approved  for a loan at a rate 
of 8.9%  and monthly payments  were discussed.  I dont know  exactly  what was said in that 
meeting. But on balance it seems more  likely  than not that the matters  discussed further 
added to why Mr S thought he was getting  the loan.
Ref: DRN15033113His application was ultimately declined due to unaffordability.  And HSBC  have reasonably 
accepted that in hindsight  it wouldve been  better to assess affordability before asking for 
proof of income. 
So the question  is how to put things  right.  Mr Ss application has been reconsidered and 
HSBC remain of the view that the loan is unaffordable. Its not my role to tell a bank who to 
lend to and they are entitled to carry out checks and set their own lending  criteria. While I 
appreciate all of Mr Ss points on this, I dont consider HSBCs ground for decline the debt 
to income ratio was too high - to be unreasonable. It would  be irresponsible  of HSBC to lend 
to a customer when  they didnt  think they could afford it.
However, I do think their customer service was not as good  as it should have been in the 
ways Ive described.
I know that Mr S asks for a higher amount of compensation so as to better  reflect the extent  
of the stress and inconvenience he experienced. And I appreciate  it must have been  
disappointing and embarrassing for him to find that his loan application  had ultimately been 
declined. Hed waited  a long time on hold when he called telephone banking.  And it must 
have a felt a huge waste of time that hed gone to the branch with all his documents.  But the 
live chat conversation had been  at around 11.15am on 23rd November 2018 and the in 
branch meeting was at around 2pm. So Mr S found  out he did not in fact have  the loan on 
the same  day, within a matter of hours. 
Taking everything into account,  I think £150  compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So Im not going  to ask HSBC to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1503311