K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that the sofas  and chair he bought using his credit  card provided by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) were misrepresented.
background
In January 2018, Mr N ordered two new sofas and a reclining chair  (referred to collectively  
as the sofas  in this complaint).  He says he visited the store  before ordering and liked the 
style of the sofas there. However  he says he made it clear to the sales  agent that he didnt 
like the colour and asked it the sofas were  available in navy blue. He says he was initially 
told they werent but shortly after the sales agent told him that navy blue was available.  He 
says that he placed the order but when the sofas arrived they were not as expected. He says 
the colour was the same  as the sofas  he had seen in store.
Mr N made  a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s. 75) saying the 
goods he received  were  not as described.
Barclaycard says that under s. 75 it would  be liable if there had been a breach of contract  or 
a misrepresentation.  It says that as the sofas  delivered matched  the sample in store. It says 
the colour of the sofas matched the colour sample  that was available  and so it didnt accept 
that either a breach of contract or misrepresentation had occurred. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that Mr N had been  consistent in his 
testimony that he told the sales  agent he didnt like the colour of the sofas in store and asked 
if the sofas were  available in navy blue. He said that by the agent saying the sofas  were  
available in navy blue and not saying  the sofas Mr N was looking at were navy  blue, Mr N 
was mislead into thinking  the sofas  he would receive  would be a different colour to the ones 
he saw in store. Because of this he said the sofas  has been misrepresented  and 
recommended that Barclaycard refund Mr N the cost of the sofas and arrange for them to be 
collected at no cost to Mr N.
Barclaycard didnt accept  our investigators  view. It said that if the colour  of the sofas  was 
important to Mr N then he should have requested to see the navy blue swatch or a picture to 
show the colour he was purchasing before placing the order. It says the sofa Mr N looked  at 
in store  would have  been clearly labelled with the colour. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
There is limited  information available as the key to this complaint relates to the 
conversations Mr N had with the sales  agent. However I have considered  the information 
provided by Mr N and noted  the actions he took when he received the sofas.
I accept that the colour of the sofa was important to Mr N as when the sofas were delivered 
he immediately raised his concerns. Given this, I think had Mr N known the colour of the 
Ref: DRN15235962sofas he looked at in store was the colour  of sofas  he would receive then he wouldnt have 
ordered the sofas.
I understand the comments made  by Barclaycard that the sofas delivered where the sofas 
that were ordered  and that the delivered sofa colour  was defined by the retailer  as navy blue. 
However, as I accept Mr Ns testimony  that he made it clear  he didnt like the colour of the 
sofas in store and was told the colour he wanted  was available; I find it reasonable to accept 
that he believed  the colour of sofas he would receive was different to that of the sofas in 
store. Because of this, I find the information he received in store mislead  him into thinking 
the colour he wanted would be provided and that this induced him into placing the order.  
Therefore I find, on balance, that a misrepresentation did occur.
Because of this I uphold this complaint. Mr N has explained that he paid the deposit for the 
sofas on a different credit card and then the balance on his Barclaycard. Given I uphold this 
complaint I find that Barclaycard should  refund  the whole amount of the purchase,  which I 
understand to be £2,622. I understand no refund has been provided by the credit card that 
Mr N used to pay the deposit  however, if a refund is provided this should  be offset against 
the amount Barclaycard is required to refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) should:
arrange for the two sofas  and reclining chair to be collected,  at no cost to Mr N;
refund  Mr N the total cost of the two sofas  and reclining chair  (which I understand to 
by £2,622). This refund is subject to the points above regarding  the other credit card 
company.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019. 
Jane archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1523596