K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Saxton 4x4 Limited  mis-sold him a single premium payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2005  in connection  with a hire purchase agreement to buy a car.
background
Mr H complained to this Service. He said he was complaining about a PPI policy  sold on a 
loan agreement. He said he explained  to the Saxton advisor that he was self-employed, he 
was unsure of how long his job would last and so he particularly wanted the PPI to cover him 
for when  he became unemployed.  He said the Saxton  advisor first offered silver cover and 
later recommended  the gold  cover;  and  after some thought  he chose the gold package 
for the deferred  payments  even though  the monthly payments were  more expensive. He 
later discovered the policy would  not give him unemployment cover due to his self-employed 
status. So he concludes  Saxton mis-sold him the PPI policy.
Saxton said Mr H said he was self-employed but had not raised with them that he would be 
unemployed or that he wanted  unemployment  cover. It says Mr H only asked  for cover for 
accident, sickness or injury, so it says it recommended he should have the silver cover or he 
could have taken  the full cover to defer payments. Saxton knew  that gold cover  would not 
give unemployment cover  to a self-employed person. Saxton said it faxed the different types 
of cover available with its recommendation for silver cover and indicated that full cover  would 
allow him to defer the first payment. It said the policy was not mis-sold.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019 where  I explained  why I thought  the PPI policy 
had not been mis-sold to Mr H because it was optional, it looks  like Saxton recommended  
the silver policy - according  to instructions from Mr H - which gave accident, sickness or 
injury cover  and because I think Mr H was given enough information about  the different 
types of cover available.  
We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited them  to comment  or 
provide any new evidence. Saxton had nothing further to add. Mr H added  the following 
comments which I have already considered fully in my provisional decision:
Saxton offered him silver  and gold cover;
He explained  he was not sure if his employment would last for the full loan term;
He asked for accident, sickness and unemployment cover;
Saxton recommended  he should  take out gold cover;
He took the gold cover even though it was more expensive;
It wasnt made clear to him that gold cover wouldnt cover him for unemployment.
I have already considered these points, so as Mr H has not raised any new evidence or 
comments to change  my mind, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Ref: DRN13429492I am not going  to uphold this complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result  for Mr H so I 
will explain  why.
I think Saxton made it clear on the loan agreement that Mr H didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out; and as Mr H asked for cover,  he would have 
known it was an optional product.  So I am not going to uphold  the complaint  on this 
point.
Saxton recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example for accident, sickness and injury  cover,  he wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for 
the cover.  
Mr H told us he made it clear to the Saxton advisor that he was self-employed and 
worried about how long his job was going to last  so he told the advisor he wanted 
PPI cover and said he particularly wanted unemployment cover.  He said this was the 
main reason he took out PPI  to cover his eventual  unemployment  although I have  
not seen any other  evidence  to confirm these were his instructions at that time. He 
said Saxton offered  him silver and gold cover.
However, Saxton  said Mr H only asked for a policy which would cover him for accident, 
sickness or injury. So Saxton sent a fax to Mr H on 22 November 2005 which offered this 
cover under the silver  policy and the fax told him the full cover  would allow  him to defer  the 
first payment.  It also enclosed  a PPI leaflet which explained the different  types  of cover Mr H 
could buy. Ive seen the leaflet, and its clear  enough  on the leaflet that a self-employed 
person would only get critical illness  cover instead  of unemployment  cover  with the gold 
policy. Having seen  the recommendation from Saxton, I think its likely Mr H chose gold 
cover to defer his first payment. So I havent  seen enough evidence  on the documents  (in 
particular, the recommendation) to say the policy was mis-sold to Mr H on the basis  that he 
said he wanted unemployment cover and didnt  get it.
I think the information Saxton gave Mr H could have been clearer.  But he chose to 
take it out  and he was clear he wanted  cover;  it also looks  like it was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  or more detailed information  about the PPI would have  put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy was optional. I think  Mr H chose the policy 
cover; and in respect of the cover he actually bought, he wasnt  affected by the main  
exclusions and limitations. I think he had enough  information about the cover offered and the 
cost of it; and I think he most  likely would have  bought it even if he had more detailed 
information - because I think his instructions were clear at the time. So I am not going to 
uphold this mis-sale complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Ref: DRN13429493Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1342949