K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly reported  adverse information 
about his missed loan repayments to credit reference agencies.
background
NatWest gave Mr S notice that it was going  to be closing the current account  he used to 
made payments to his loan. So after that current account closed his direct  debit  to the loan 
could not be paid. NatWest wrote  to Mr S about the arrears. He made  further payments and 
then the loan was closed.  But NatWest  reported that payments had been missed.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-NatWest had written to Mr S about the closure  of this current  account on 13 October 
2017. It said that he had 60 days to make  other  arrangements and that his standing 
orders and direct debits  would be cancelled.
-The account was closed on 15 December 2017  and a cheque sent to him with the 
balance.
-The loan payments that were due for December 2017 and January 2018 were not 
made and NatWest sent him an arrears  notice on 17 January 2018.
-Mr S next made a payment to the loan on 14 February 2018.
-Although there had been sufficient funds  to pay the loan in the current account  
NatWest had made clear  that the account would be closed.
-Mr S had not made other arrangements for payments and so the adverse information 
reported fairly reflected his payment history.
Mr S did not agree.  He said that when  he knew about the account closure he had changed 
all his direct  debits and standing orders. Had he known that the loan was outstanding he 
would have repaid it from the money  NatWest  returned to him on 15 December  2017.  He 
said that a branch refused  to take a payment  from him in January 2018. And that he had to 
phone the head office persistently  to make the payment. He said that in February  2018  it 
accepted payments for the two missing months.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter of 13 October 2017 to Mr S said about his loan that you are still liable  to fund 
this facility by making the agreed weekly/monthly/other repayments for the full period  of the 
borrowing as stipulated  within the Terms and Conditions/Loan  agreement. It went  on to say 
he could set up a regular payment or make  payments by debit  or credit card or through  a 
branch.
Mr S did deposit money to his current account on 9 November  2017 to clear  the overdraft. 
There was a credit balance in excess of the outstanding loan amount until the current  
account was closed. There is no evidence Mr S asked NatWest to repay the loan early from 
this money as he suggests. And its letter to him did not say thats  what it would do.
I appreciate that the timing of the closure of the loan came  just at the point when the 
December 2017  direct debit would have  been  due. But Mr S had been given 60 days  notice 
of the closure.
Ref: DRN12385802Ive looked closely  at the loan statement. The payments for December 2017 and January 
2018 were not made. Mr S made one effective payment  in February  and then one in each of 
the following  months until the loan was repaid in June 2018.  He did not clear  the arrears  in 
February 2018 and another  payment had then become due. He didnt repay the loan in a 
lump sum as he indicated  hed previously intended  to.
I understand the points Mr S makes  but Im afraid  for the reasons Ive given I dont think 
NatWest has made a mistake in dealing with his loan. And I consider that as the loan 
payments were in arrears  it was fair that NatWest reported this to credit reference agencies.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1238580