K820x#14complaint
Miss U says MYJAR Limited MYJAR irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans MYJAR provided to Miss U. Miss Us borrowing  
history is as follows:
Loan no
Date taken
Date repaid
Amount Term Repayment due
1 11/07/13 26/07/13 £100 15 days £117
2 16/08/13 25/04/17 £100 18 days £120
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Us complaint and thought the loans were correctly  lent. 
Miss U disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss U could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Both of Miss Us loans  were lent in the early stage of the lending relationship with MYJAR  
and given that the loans  were relatively low compared to Miss Us declared income of 
£1,400, I think  MYJARs checks went far enough.  And from the checks  MYJAR carried  out, 
there was nothing that suggested Miss U was likely  to struggle to repay the loans.
I accept that Miss Us actual financial position  may not have  suggested that she could afford 
the loans and I can see that she struggled to repay loan 2 and had to come  to a payment 
arrangement with MYJAR. But this isnt something  Id expect MYJAR to have been  aware  of 
from what I consider to be proportionate  checks in the circumstances. I think  MYJAR was 
entitled to rely on what Miss U told it when she applied for the loans.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Miss Us complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1027816