K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Ocaso  SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros decision to 
decline a claim he made  under his householders insurance policy.
background
Mr M bought  a home insurance policy through a broker with the insurer, Ocaso. In July 2017  
he called  Ocaso.  He said a leak from a pipe below his downstairs  bathroom had been 
discovered while working was being done.  The agent told Mr M his policy  covered water 
damage resulting  from the leak, but not the mending of the pipe itself. Ocaso asked Mr M to 
obtain two estimates  and send them with photos  so it could have  a look at it. The agent said 
if the matter was urgent (as it was a leak) Mr M could send one estimate for Ocaso to 
consider. 
In March 2018 Mr M submitted an invoice for £3,900 for completed work along  with photos to 
Ocaso and asked it to meet his claim. 
Ocaso said it wouldnt meet Mr Ms claim. It said he didnt provide an estimate for it to 
approve any works. It said the photos  didnt show damage to the bathroom caused  by the 
leaking pipe.  So it was impossible for Ocaso  to determine the state of the bathroom before 
works were carried out. 
Ocaso said that because the invoice was for over £2,000, if Mr M had provided an estimate,  
Ocaso would  have instructed an insurance  loss adjuster to inspect the damage to validate  
the claim in any event. But because the work  had been  completed, Ocaso had been denied 
the opportunity  to validate the cause and damage. 
Mr M instructed a loss assessor to help him with his complaint. But Ocaso said it had acted 
correctly. 
Mr M asked  us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought Ocaso had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr M didnt  agree. In summary he says it wasnt possible to show  damage  in photos. Its 
obvious the pipe was leaking  from the photos  provided. He said if he hadnt mitigated his 
losses, the claim costs would have been  much higher. He believes Ocaso could have sent a 
surveyor to his house even after the work  had been completed to assess  what had 
happened. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr M said Ocaso should pay his claim. We look at whether an insurer  has acted  in a 
reasonable way and in line with the policy when  deciding how to settle a claim. 
Ref: DRN12055702Mr Ms policy says under  no circumstances should repairs to the buildings or replacement  of 
contents be carried out without prior approval  from Ocaso. It also says:
When repairs  are not immediately necessary you should obtain two estimates for 
repair or replacement.  Once your estimate is approved  the work can be carried out 
and you should  send the final bill, we will then settle your claim in accordance with 
the terms of the policy.  
Mr M said Ocaso told him he could go ahead  with the works when he called to report  the 
leak. Ive listened  to a recording of the call Mr M made to Ocaso  to discuss  the leak in July 
2017. Im satisfied that at no stage did Ocaso  tell Mr M he could go ahead  with the works. I 
think the agent made Mr M aware  that he would need to provide a quote - preferably two - 
with photos for Ocaso to look at first. 
The reason  why Ocaso required estimates  first was to allow it the opportunity to check if the 
claim is valid under the policy. Not all claims are. And as Ocaso said, because  the invoice 
Mr M provided eight months  later was for over £2,000, it would have instructed a loss 
assessor to inspect the damage before deciding if it would meet Mr Ms claim. 
Because the works have  been completed before Ocaso has had the opportunity  to assess  
the damage, I think its position on the claim has been prejudiced. I agree there  is no benefit 
to visiting Mr Ms home as any possible claim related damage cant  be inspected. I therefore 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Ocaso not to visit Mr Ms home  after it rejected his claim.  
I think Ocaso has acted  fairly  and in line with the policy. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed. But this means Im not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1205570