K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) (PDL) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Mr L took four loans  with PDL between September  2013 and April 2014. Ive included some 
of the information weve  received about these loans in the table below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountMax 
RepaymentRollovers
1 05/09/2013 07/11/2013 1 £150 £176.25 3
2 18/12/2013 02/01/2014 1 £200 £260.00 0
3 06/01/2014 25/04/2014 1 £300 £390.00 3
4 25/04/2014 23/06/2014 1 £400 £520.00 Unknown
PDL didnt provide  us with information  about  loan 4 so the details of this loan are drawn from 
submissions made by Mr L.
Mr L later complained about these loans. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint and thought 
loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been given to Mr L, along with loan 4 which PDL had already 
agreed it shouldnt  have lent to him. PDL disagreed and the complaint has now been  passed 
to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
PDL had to assess Mr Ls applications for borrowing to check if he could afford to pay back  
the amounts hed borrowed without  undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which  was 
proportionate to the circumstances. PDLs checks could have taken into account a number 
of different  things, such as how much was being  lent, the size of the repayments and Mr Ls 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  I think in the early  stages  of a lending  
relationship, less thorough checks might have been  proportionate.
Ref: DRN18012412But certain factors might  suggest  PDL should have done more  to establish that any lending  
was sustainable  for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
The amounts  to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr L having a large  number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated  refinancing may signal that the borrowing  
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly  after previous  borrowing had been repaid  
(also suggestive  of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L.
PDL was required to establish  whether Mr L could sustainably repay  his loans  not just 
whether he technically  had enough  money to make  his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments  could of course  be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically  follow that this is the case.  The relevant 
guidance from the industry regulators  at the time Mr L borrowed, states payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make  them.  If a 
lender realises,  or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont  be able to make  
their repayments without borrowing further,  then it follows  that it should  conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
PDL hasnt been particularly clear  about what checks it carried out before lending  to Mr L. It 
seems it carried  out a credit check and established  that Mr L had a job. It doesnt appear to 
have asked him anything about  his income  or expenditure. I dont think  these checks  were 
proportionate even for loan 1  I think PDL should at least  have made  enquiries  about Mr Ls 
income. But Im not convinced better  checks would have made a difference here.  At around 
this time Mr L had told other lenders his income was about £800  per month, so I think its 
likely hed have reported the same or a similar  amount to PDL had he been asked. Given  the 
small size of the repayment  for loan 1, I dont think it would  have thought Mr L would be 
unable to afford to repay this sustainably.
But as our adjudicator  explained, Mr L went on to roll over loan 1 three  times. Rolling over a 
loan on multiple  occasions can be an indicator of underlying financial difficulties, and a sign 
that a borrower  is struggling to repay what theyve borrowed. Bearing this in mind, I think the 
number of rollovers on loan 1 should have  given PDL cause for concern about Mr Ls ability 
to repay  credit in a sustainable way.  When he came  back for loan 2, just over a month  later, 
this is something which  PDL should  still have been thinking about. And given loan 2 had a 
significantly increased payment amount, representing almost  a third of Mr Ls income,  I dont 
think PDL should have agreed this loan in light of his apparent difficulty  paying  back a 
smaller amount of credit.
Ref: DRN18012413Loans 3 and 4 were  for larger amounts still (with repayments of around half and two thirds of 
Mr Ls income respectively),  and Mr L applied for these within a week  of paying off his 
previous loan. There was a high risk that Mr L would be unable  to repay these  loans 
sustainably given his low income and previous payment problems  so I dont think PDL 
should have given Mr L these loans either.
putting things right
PDL shouldnt have  given Mr L loans 2 to 4, so its not right that he should have had to pay 
interest, fees or charges  on these, or have  them affect his credit file in a negative  way. So to 
put things right I direct PDL to:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest,  fees and 
charges on these loans.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr L which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally made  the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay Mr L the total of A plus B.
D) Remove any adverse  information  it has recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the 
upheld loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to deduct tax from this interest. PDL should give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ls complaint  and direct  PDL to take the 
actions set out in the putting things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1801241