K822xcomplaint
Mr H is not happy  with the way his travel insurance claim was handled by Union  
Reiseversicherung AG (URV).
All references to URV include its claims handlers  and agents.
background 
Mr H had travel medical insurance with URV.  In June  2018, Mr H had a fall whilst on holiday 
in Poland. He was immediately admitted to the nearest hospital where it was discovered hed 
broken his C1 Vertebra. A few days later, he was transferred  to a general hospital  by air 
ambulance, where  he underwent stabilisation surgery. During his stay,  Mr H unfortunately 
also required  treatment for a head  trauma, respiratory failure  and pneumonia. As Mr H was 
travelling alone,  different  members of his family visited him on rotation, until he eventually 
returned home in early  September 2018.  
Mr Hs son-in-law  and daughter, acting  on Mr Hs behalf, made a complaint. But Ill refer to 
all representations  made by Mr H. He complained to URV  as he wasnt happy with the way 
they handled his claim and the time it took to arrange for him to be repatriated  home.  He 
also felt URV could have  done more to update his family members, who were keeping  him 
informed throughout  the claim.  He also said he experienced  an uncomfortable flight  home,  
as his seat was in economy class  instead of business class.
In the final response, URV  acknowledged  they could  have done more  to progress the claim 
and provide more  regular  updates. They also said they could have resolved the complaint 
faster. To put things  right,  they offered to cover the total expenses incurred by Mr Hs family 
members throughout  the claim. This was despite the fact some of these expenses werent 
covered by the policy. They also offered to pay £150 compensation to Mr H, for the delay in 
responding to his complaint. Mr H accepted the £150 compensation for the poor complaint 
handling. However, he asked us to consider the complaint as he felt more compensation 
was due for the trouble  and upset, he and his family experienced. 
Our investigator explained that our service  can only consider the trouble  and upset Mr H 
experienced as a result of this claim, as he is the only policy holder. He also explained  that 
expenses paid by URV  directly to the family werent incurred by Mr H and we can only take 
into account his losses. However, he did think Mr H had been  substantially let down by URV, 
so he recommended they should pay him £1,000  compensation to say sorry. 
In reaching his opinion, our investigator highlighted Mr Hs vulnerability due to his age and 
the language barrier  in the hospital.  He also mentioned the substantial delays in obtaining  
medical information and the poor communication provided throughout the claim. However, 
he didnt think URV  acted unreasonably by arranging for Mr H to fly home in economy class.
URV accepted the investigators opinion  but Mr H didnt. He explained that he wasnt  
motivated by compensation, but he felt more should  be done to penalise URV for their 
actions. He also said he didnt want anybody else to be treated the same way in the future.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
Ref: DRN11947582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly  like to say Im sorry to hear Mr H had such an unfortunate accident  whilst he was 
away on holiday. His desire to stop other  people  receiving the same level of poor service is 
also understandable.  
Our service isnt a regulator. This means  we dont  punish or fine firms  and we cant make 
them change the way they operate. Instead,  we look at individual complaints and reach fair 
outcomes based  on all the circumstances - considering any relevant law and industry  
guidance.
I also want to reiterate  that I dont have the power to make an award for the trouble and 
upset Mr Hs family members experienced. I dont doubt that this was a very frustrating and 
traumatic experience  but, as they arent party to the contract of insurance,  I cannot make an 
award for the trouble  and upset they experienced during the weeks  that this claim was 
ongoing. They demonstrated an exceptional  level of patience and resilience  in a very difficult 
situation, with little meaningful support from Mr Hs insurer. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant  industry  guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which  says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
URV has already  accepted they made  errors in relation to the claim, so Ive decided what I 
think is a fair resolution to the complaint. Having done so, I think £1,000 compensation for 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr H is fair because:
URV delayed requesting Mr Hs medical  history by over a month. This information 
was first requested on 22 July 2018,  despite  the accident happening on                   
Ref: DRN1194758315 June 2018.  I would  reasonably have expected URV to have requested this 
information at the start of the claim and in any event much sooner that they did. This 
issue caused confusion  and upset. But it also meant there  was a delay in the claim 
being accepted
The first medical report was requested on 26 June 2018.  This was seven days  after 
URV had been informed of the relevant hospitals details. URV  did attempt to chase 
the hospital for the report before it arrived on 25 July 2018,  but given the importance 
of this information, I think they could have done  more to try and obtain it sooner. For 
example, on 13 July 2018,  they were asked  to call the hospital back  on the following 
Monday (16 July)  but this didnt  happen  until 23 July 2018 
Based  on the content of the medical  report in June, I think  it is unlikely the delays at 
this point had a significant impact  on Mr Hs repatriation plan. I say this because  the 
report doesnt say he was ready to return home.  And it seems likely he was very 
unwell for some  time after that date. However,  it is understandable the delay caused 
Mr H significant worry. This was made all the more challenging,  as the hospital  staff 
didnt speak English.  He was also relying on his visiting family members  for updates 
whilst recovering  from significant  injuries
I also note that Mr Hs son-in-law  received a call on 22 July 2018  and was mistakenly 
asked if Mr H needed any additional  support, now hed returned home. It is unclear if 
the details of this call were shared with Mr H, but it does illustrate  the level of service 
offered throughout the claim
On 3 August  2018, URV contacted  the treating doctor and they were informed Mr H 
needed respiratory physiotherapy and was unable to sit or stand. It wasnt until                    
20 August 2018, that a note was added to the file to say that more up to date report  
was needed. However, even then,  this report wasnt requested until 23 August 2018. 
It is disappointing URV didnt contact the treating doctor between 3 August 2018 and 
23 August 2018, as Mr H didnt  know what  was happening during  this time. It also 
meant his family didnt  know what to tell him, other than repeating  that he would  be 
going home soon
On 21 August Mr Hs son-in-law  says he flew out to join Mr H. He says he sat with 
the surgeon on 22 August to complete the form and sent a copy to URV by email as 
an image. Thats consistent with URVs file, which contains an image of the report. 
And the event log contains a progress update dated the same date. This was 
reviewed by URV and theres a note to say that a document  had been  uploaded and 
needed to be reviewed. This was then reviewed on the 23 August and the log says, 
please  request a detailed medical  report to include the following questions. The 
questions are listed and were the same questions the report received on the 
22 August had answered
On 24 August 2018, URVs medical director had a conversation  with Mr Hs 
son-in-law to discuss progress. During this conversation, the medical director  said he 
didnt think Mr H was ready to return home and he described what he believed  
Mr Hs condition to be. Mr Hs son-in-law  explained  that the description didnt reflect  
the current position. I think this confusion was most  likely caused  by either the 
medical director relying on out of date reports from much earlier in the month or the 
updated information not being provided  to him. This could have been avoided had 
the medical information sent on the 22 August  2018  been shared with the medical 
Ref: DRN11947584director or more clearly noted  on the file. It also highlights the outdated medical  
information URV was relying on in relation to the claim  
Towards the end of the call on 24 August, the medical director  agreed  Mr H could 
travel home based on the information Mr Hs son-in-law provided and said hed 
discuss it with the others in the medical team. At that point  road repatriation  was 
being considered. He called back on the 26 August  and by this point the plan was to 
return Mr H by air with a nurse escort. The call on 24 August, and a subsequent call 
on the 26 August,  isnt recorded  on URVs document and event history but Ive 
listened to the calls
Mr Hs son in law called for an update on the 29 August. I cant  see what URV were  
doing to organise  the repatriation during that time. However, a later note, also dated 
29 August, refers to issues in arranging a nurse escort. Thats supported  by what  the 
medical director said during the call to Mr Hs son-in-law on 26 August  as they said 
their preferred nurse  escort wasnt available. But it isnt very clear what  was 
happening during this time
Based  on the above I think URV  had enough information to decide to repatriate Mr H 
on the 22 August.  But it took until the 2 September for this to happen. However, Im 
satisfied that the delay  to repatriation wasnt significant because it was limited to 
short periods of time between the 22 August and the 29 August. During that time the 
evidence suggests that Mr H was medically stable and receiving the treatment  he 
needed. The evidence  Ive seen also shows that action was taken on the 24 and 26 
August which  persuades me that the repatriation plans were moving forward.  So, 
whilst I think the level of service could have been  far better, I dont think  this 
significantly delayed plans  to repatriate Mr H in the circumstances  of this case
Its clear both URV and Mr H would have  had a much better understanding  of his 
circumstances, had the second medical  report been  requested much earlier and 
there had been greater  proactivity  on URVs part in chasing reports  and 
communicating with Mr H. Im satisfied Mr H was caused considerable distress  
during this time as hed been hospitalised for two months by this point, and he didnt 
understand the reasons he wasnt going home
Throughout the claim, I also think URV  could have done more to keep Mr H updated. 
Unfortunately, the majority of the contact was driven by Mr Hs family members and 
not URV.  As Ive mentioned above,  this caused distress to Mr H as he was relying  on 
his family  members to pass  on updates to him during his recovery
Mr H complained that when he was repatriated  home, he travelled in economy class 
instead of business  class.  Based on the evidence available, I cant  see that URV 
agreed arrangements of this nature or the medical evidence stated this was 
necessary. Ive listened to the calls made on the 24 or 26 August 2018 and this 
wasnt requested or discussed. URV  has also explained that Mr H travelled in 
economy, as it meant a nurse escort  could  sit next to him with a portable oxygen 
concentrator. As such, although  Im sorry to hear Mr H had an uncomfortable 
journey, I dont think URV  acted  unreasonably  here.  
Ref: DRN11947585In light of the above, I think  £1,000  compensation  which falls within  the substantial bracket 
for our service  - fairly  reflects  the distress Mr H experienced throughout his claim.   Mr H was 
a vulnerable person who experienced significant injuries from his fall. He was also travelling  
alone when the accident happened and stayed  in a hospital where he didnt speak the 
language. URV isnt responsible for the upset  the accident and injuries caused, but it could 
have done much more  to proactively progress  the claim and update  Mr H.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  to the extent Ive outlined above and direct Union Reiseversicherung 
AG to pay Mr H £1,000  compensation  theyve  agreed to for the substantial trouble and upset 
they caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1194758