K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK plc is harassing her by sending her letters about her 
loan despite knowing  she has been  declared  bankrupt. 
background
Mrs B is upset  about the number of letters she has received from Santander  after she told it 
she had been  declared bankrupt. She considers these are unnecessary,  amount to 
harassment and thinks they should  go to the Official  Receiver (OR).
The adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld. He felt Santander had acted 
fairly in sending the letters to Mrs B because it was legally required to do so.
Mrs B responded to say, in summary, that the letters were demanding payment so 
Santander should have been sending them to the OR.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Bs frustration about  receiving a number of telephone calls and letters 
demanding repayment after she was declared bankrupt.  Santander did telephone her a 
number of times after the date she entered bankruptcy but I find that these calls were made 
before it received the official confirmation  from the OR.
Once it had been told about  the bankruptcy Santander wrote to Mrs B the following day to 
say that it had received notification from the Insolvency Office  about the Bankruptcy Order. It 
explained that, even though the account was subject to the insolvency process, it was 
required to continue to send statements and statutory notices to comply  with the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. The letter also told Mrs B that she didnt need to take any action when  she 
received these letters. Santander  is also required to send a notice of sums in arrears  
statement every  six months to keep her informed of the status  of the account.
Ive carefully reviewed the number of letters sent and when they were sent and, like the 
adjudicator, Im not persuaded that this was excessive or amounted  to harassment. I do 
appreciate that Mrs B wanted them to be sent to the OR rather than directly to her. But, to 
comply with its legal  requirements, it was necessary  for Santander to send  certain 
correspondence directly  to Mrs B, rather than to a third party. Whilst the letters  may have 
seemed strongly  worded and caused her some  distress, Im satisfied that Santander  was 
entitled to send them and it hasnt made any mistake.  It had already  told Mrs B that she 
neednt take any action. It will stop sending letters and statements when it receives the 
discharge documents to Mrs Bs bankruptcy.
Ref: DRN12691012my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1269101