K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings on it, in my decision  of 
earlier this month. It included the following:
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI alongside  a mortgage in 1996. The PPI protected  their 
monthly repayments if Mr S couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. B&B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs S case.
Having done so, I dont intend  to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld because  Mr S had a pre-existing 
heart condition, which  the PPI wouldnt  have  allowed Mr and Mrs S to claim for. The 
adjudicator believed they wouldnt have  bought  the PPI had they known this.
When the adjudicator  put all of this to B&B as reason to uphold  the complaint, it disagreed. It 
had concerns, among other things, as to why Mr and Mrs S hadnt mentioned his health  
when he initially complained.
It may be the case that Mr and Mrs S havent been  entirely consistent on the issue  of Mr S 
health  these events occurred a long time ago. But, putting that issue to one side,  there are 
reasons why I dont  think his health  would necessarily have put Mr and Mrs S off buying the 
PPI.  
Im grateful  to Mr and Mrs S for providing a copy of Mr S medical records. Having reviewed 
them carefully, I note he underwent  heart  surgery in 1993. Following the surgery, his treating 
consultant cardiothoracic surgeon  wrote  to Mr S GP to say hed made  an excellent recovery 
and that his chest X-ray was entirely satisfactory. He said Mr S could return  to all normal 
activities and he asked  to see him again in a years  time.
Towards the end of 1993, an echocardiogram report showed the heart  valve  repaired earlier 
that year appeared satisfactory. 
In 1994, a cardiac specialist wrote to Mr S GP to say Mr S had been reviewed and was 
entirely asymptomatic.  All signs  were  normal and he was back to normal activity.  
In July 1996, a few months after Mr and Mrs S were  sold the PPI, a cardiac  specialist wrote  
to Mr S GP to say he remained asymptomatic and would be reviewed again in a year.  
Ref: DRN17580762Overall, it seems to me that Mr S condition was stable following his surgery in 1993 and in 
the lead up to the sale of the PPI. His treating  doctors reported he was free of symptoms and 
that he was effectively back to normal soon afterwards. So, I dont think the condition  would 
have been a significant factor for him in buying  the PPI almost  three  years  later.  
I think thats supported  by the fact that, on the mortgage  application  Mr and Mrs S signed in 
1996, they were  asked  whether Mr S had ever had a serious  illness or was currently 
suffering with a medical condition. They replied NO.
My current  views that I dont have enough information to show  that Mr S medical condition  
would have affected the sale or that it would have put Mr and Mrs S off taking out the PPI. I 
emphasise that Im not saying the condition (or any other condition for that matter) isnt an 
issue for him now. But I have to consider  whats likely to have been the case in 1996. That 
being so, I cant  fairly  say that the PPI was mis-sold on the grounds  referred  to by the 
adjudicator.    
Ive looked at how the remainder of the sale was carried out overall but havent seen 
anything else that would  lead me to believe the PPI was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs S. For 
example, Ive seen  clear  evidence to show they were given a choice about taking PPI and 
that they decided to go ahead with it. I havent seen  any evidence  to show  B&B put them  
under undue pressure to buy the PPI. 
And, from what  I know about Mr and Mrs S circumstances in 1996:
Mr S was eligible  for the cover. And he wasnt affected by any of the other  exclusions 
to, or limits  on, the PPI. 
They seem  to have  had a need  for the cover  I gather Mr S was only entitled to 
statutory sick pay. On the other hand,  the PPI benefits could potentially have paid out 
for up to 12 months per claim.  They would  have covered him for unemployment  too. I 
dont think the savings they held meant  theyd have found the PPI much  less useful.
They wouldnt have found the monthly premium  of less than £12  to be 
unaffordable. And the policy was flexible in that they could have cancelled  it any time 
if they decided  they no longer wanted it.
 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because  of how B&B 
sold them  the PPI. I recognise Mr and Mrs S strength of feeling about  B&Bs  actions and Im 
sorry that this isnt the outcome they were hoping for.
One final point  concerns  Mr and Mrs S argument that that they might have claimed on the 
PPI had they known more, or anything at all, about it. It may be that they forgot they had it by 
the time they could have claimed on it. Nevertheless, its open for them to contact the insurer  
if they feel they might have any valid claims,  if they havent already  done so.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
Ref: DRN17580763B&B said it had nothing  to add to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs S, on the other  hand,  didnt agree with my decision. They  said they didnt feel 
they needed to provide information about  Mr S health when  they initially  complained  as they 
believed it was enough to simply allege that the PPI had been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs S also said the monthly premium  of £12 wasnt a nominal amount to them  and 
that this extra money  would  have  made  a difference to them given  their circumstances.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs S case.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Taking the issue of Mr S health first, I explained in my provisional decision that I hadnt 
reached my conclusions based  on him not disclosing any medical  conditions  from the outset.  
Rather the main  point,  in my view,  was that even  taking into account Mr and Mrs S 
arguments about Mr S health, I dont think theyd have rejected the PPI. 
The submissions Mr and Mrs S made  recently dont address that issue. So, I cant  fairly  
change my mind and uphold the complaint on that basis.
Regarding the cost of the PPI, I said in my provisional decision that I felt Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have found the premium unaffordable.  While £12 a month wasnt necessarily a 
nominal (the word used  by Mr and Mrs S) amount, Ive seen  no evidence to suggest theyd 
have decided against the PPI on that basis either, given the benefits it potentially provided  
them with in return.
Taking everything into account,  I still dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because  of how 
B&B sold them  the PPI.  
Ref: DRN17580764My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1758076