K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he is financing through an agreement  with BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) is not of satisfactory quality. Hed like to take advantage of 
his short  term right to reject the vehicle.
background
Mr M took receipt of a used car in August 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. The car had completed 27,600  miles at that time and 
was two and a half years old.
About a week later when  Mr M was driving  in Germany he says the car starting to make  a 
loud noise and was losing power.  A German garage  investigated the issue  and said the 
brake discs  and pads  needed replacing. Mr M emailed his supplying dealership from 
Germany and told them he wasnt happy with the car and wanted to reject it. He had to get 
the brakes fixed so he could get his family home safely and he did that at a local dealership 
at a cost of €2038.16. 
When he got home BMWFS arranged an independent engineers  inspection  of the car. The 
engineer looked at the worn brakes that Mr M had brought back from Germany. He 
confirmed they would  have needed replacing  and that the brakes were now fully serviceable 
with recent  parts fitted. He noted that Mr M hadnt  had the loss of power  looked  at in 
Germany as he didnt  want additional  expense. He therefore took the car on a short test 
drive. The engineer couldnt replicate the issue and suggested this may need  further  
investigation if it continued to be an issue.
BMWFS didnt think it would be reasonable to ask them to reject the car. They were 
prepared to refund the cost of the brake  pads only, which was in the region of £120.
But Mr M was disappointed with their response. He referred his complaint to this service and 
our investigator provided his opinion. He noted that Mr M had made his request to reject the 
car within the first few days of ownership  and he thought BMWFS  should  therefore allow  him 
to do so as that was his short term right. He didnt think Mr M had any option other than to 
have the brakes  fixed abroad so he thought it would be fair for BMWFS to refund the full 
invoice cost as well. 
But BMWFS  disagreed. They agreed  to refund the full brake replacement invoice cost but 
didnt think it would  be fair to allow Mr M to reject the car as it was now working and brakes 
were a wear  and tear item. They therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN17142952Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant  law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS is 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
BMWFS to put this right.  
The relevant  law allowed  Mr M to reject the goods within  thirty  days  if they were faulty. Im 
persuaded that he should have been  allowed to do so in August 2018  because:
he told the dealership in an email  on 23 August, only seven days after hed taken 
receipt of the car, that he wished to reject it. As this was within  30 days there was no 
obligation on Mr M to demonstrate the problem was there  from the onset. It can be 
assumed that was the case
he appeared to have  no choice but to have the car repaired in Germany. I dont think 
this meant he accepted a repair and in fact I note that he asked the dealership in the 
UK for help with the issue
he didnt ask the German garage  to look at the issue  with loss of power. Im 
persuaded that if hed wanted the car to be repaired he wouldve been  likely to 
negotiate this with the UK dealership at the time.  The fact he didnt suggests it was 
still his desire to reject the vehicle
the independent engineer viewed the brake  parts that Mr M brought home  with him 
and agreed they would  have  needed  replacing
Im not persuaded by BMWFSs argument that the parts are a wear  and tear item in 
this scenario. Thats because the wear was extensive and costly and highly likely to 
have been in that condition when the car was supplied to Mr M. I think  a reasonable 
person would accept  that shouldnt have been the case on a car of this age and 
mileage. The car was therefore of unsatisfactory condition at the point of supply.
As Ive explained I dont  think  Mr M had any option other than to have the brakes repaired in 
Germany I also think it would be reasonable to tell BMFS to pay for those repairs.
Its clear that Mr M has been  inconvenienced by this issue  and having reviewed the file I 
would agree with the investigator  that £100  compensation  would be reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN17142953my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr M
collect the car without  further cost to Mr M
refund  Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
refund  the repair cost of €2038.26 and add 8% simple interest  per annum from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
pay Mr M £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1714295