K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how British  Gas Insurance Limited (BG) dealt with his HomeCare 
policy.
My references to BG include its agents.
background
Mr Hs policy  gives cover for boiler, controls  and central heating  cover including  an annual 
service, plus repairs  to plumbing, drains  and home  electrics.
In January 2018 Mr H found a leaking elbow joint in his airing cupboard and contacted BG to 
make a claim. He says the problem was a small drip, which had dampened the floor boards 
in the corner of the cupboard which seeped through  to one of the spot light fittings in the 
kitchen directly below but caused no long term damage.
BG instructed an engineer  from a business (that Ill refer to as D) to attend. Mr H says the 
engineer replaced  the original elbow joint and also replaced the elbow joint on the opposite 
side which was showing wear. Mr H said that to do the additional work the engineer had to 
move and cut the long pipe leading up to the boiler. When the engineer finished Mr H says 
he was shown the replaced joints and the engineer said he shouldnt have really done the 
work as the pipe was a boiler  outlet pipe which should have been done  by a BG engineer,  
but the job had been simple.
About two weeks later Mr H found a lot of water  under the boiler due to the pipe no longer 
being connected. He contacted BG and its engineer attended and found  the repair work by 
the contracted engineer  from D had failed.
Mr H says the second leak caused damage to the loft floor, the walls below the loft, the 
landing carpet  and the ceiling below. He complained to BG in January  2018 and asked it to 
pay for the damage  caused by the second  leak.
In July 2018 BG inspected the problem.  It wrote to Mr H saying (D) may have failed to fix the 
leak, and further  damage  may have been  caused to your property as a result. Please note 
that we cannot  be held liable for the full extent of the damage caused since your property 
was already affected by the initial leak. 
BG told Mr H to make a claim  on his home  insurance and offered £30 compensation for its 
delays which  he declined.
Our investigator thought BG was responsible for the damage caused  by the second leak as 
BG had instructed  the engineer from D to attend the property on BGs behalf.  She 
recommended BG pay for the damage  caused  by the second leak and pay Mr H £200 
compensation for his trouble and upset caused  by the damage and its delay.
BG didnt  agree. It said the two engineers  worked on different pipes, Ds engineer  fixed  an 
overflow pipe and the gas engineer  repaired a condensate pipe. The second  leak wasnt  
found until about two weeks after the initial repair  and its technical manager  thought  a leak 
from the condensate pipe would be apparent  quite  quickly as the boiler would produce 
condensation from being in use. Also there was already damage from the initial leak. 
Ref: DRN11413702As the parties couldnt  agree the matters come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
In BGs internal  notes theres a record of what the second engineer found when he inspected  
and repaired  the second leak. The engineer said that D had been before him and not been 
able to connect a pipe to the boiler  due to them not being gas safe registered, had left a 
bowl under  the leak which  had overflowed  and gone  through  celling. BG's July 2018 letter to 
Mr H acknowledged that the engineer contracted from D may  have failed  to fix the leak, and 
further damage may have been  caused  to your property.
So Im not persuaded by BGs recent  response  that the engineer from D wasnt responsible 
for the second  leak or the damage that caused. 
BG contracted  an engineer from D to do the repair for Mr Hs claim on BGs behalf.  BG is 
responsible to Mr H for any damage  caused by that engineer.
BG says Mr Hs property was already damaged from the first leak.  But Mr H has always  
been clear about  the damage caused from the first leak and the much more substantial  
damage from the second leak.  BG isnt responsible for the damage from the first leak but it is 
responsible for the damage from the second leak.
BG must pay for the damage from the second leak to be repaired.  Mr H has told us he hasnt 
had the damage  repaired  and has asked  how the repair work will progress. Now Ive decided  
BG is responsible it must contact Mr H in the timescale Ive detailed below to discuss  the 
practicalities such as quotes and timescales  for the repair work. If the parties can't agree the 
practicalities of the repair work then ultimately  Mr H can complain to us.
BG didnt  action Mr Hs complaint for about six months despite Mr H often chasing it. BG 
then denied liability. From  the evidence Ive seen BG should have accepted responsibility for 
the damage caused by the second  leak quickly. Mr H has lived with the damage  for a year 
now. BGs offer of £30 isnt enough.  £200 is a reasonable amount to compensate  Mr H for 
the distress and inconvenience  its caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay for the damage to Mr Hs property caused by the second leak, and 
pay Mr H £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience it caused.
British Gas Insurance Limited must contact Mr H about the practicalities  of the repair  work 
and pay him the £200 compensation within 28 days of us telling it Mr H agrees my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN11413703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1141370