K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about Legal and General  Assurance Society Limiteds  (L&G)  decision not to 
pay his critical  illness  claim. 
background
Mr M made a claim to L&G under his critical illness policy as hed unfortunately been 
diagnosed with a malignant melanoma (skin  cancer). 
L&Gs policy  definition says:
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and characterised  
by the uncontrolled growth of malignant  cells and invasion of tissue.
The term malignant tumour  includes leukaemia,  sarcoma and lymphoma except cutaneous 
lymphoma (lymphoma  confined to the skin).
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
All cancers  which are histologically classified as any of the following:
pre-malignant;
non-invasive;
cancer in situ;
having either borderline malignancy;  or
having low malignant potential
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically  classified as having  a Gleason score  greater 
than 6 or having  progressed to at least clinical TNM classification  T2N0M0.  
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  unless histologically classified as having  progressed to at 
least Binet Stage A.
Malignant melanoma unless it has been histologically  classified as having caused invasion 
beyond the epidermis (outer layer of skin).
Any other skin cancer (including cutaneous  lymphoma) unless it has been  histologically  
classified as having caused invasion in the lymph glands or spread to distant organs.
L&G said it couldnt pay the claim as Mr Ms diagnosis didnt meet  the policy  definition.  It 
said the histology report showed  Mr Ms cancer  was in situ and hadnt  invaded beyond  the 
epidermis. Mr M was unhappy with L&Gs decision and made a complaint.
L&G confirmed its decision that Mr Ms claim didnt meet the policy  definition.  Mr M didnt 
accept L&Gs response to his complaint, so referred  his case  to our service. He said both his 
consultant and the histology report said there  is invasion  of his cancer beyond the epidermis. 
And this was the only criteria that needed  to be met for L&G to pay his claim.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied the 
reasons L&G gave for not paying  the claim were  fair. Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. 
Ref: DRN18036052He said the evidence showed  there was invasion into the dermis through  Dermal 
Regression. 
Our investigator didnt  agree. He said even  if there  was some  basis  to the points made by 
Mr M about dermal regression, the histology  report still says the cancer is in situ. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He maintained the histology  report showed there was invasion beyond  
the epidermis.  Our investigator provided  L&G with Mr Ms comments.  L&G maintained there  
was no histological  confirmation that Mr Ms cancer  had invaded  beyond the epidermis  and 
that the only histological evidence available said Mr Ms cancer was classed as an in situ 
melanoma   and so not covered under the policy definition. 
Mr M remained unhappy and his case has been passed to me to review. Of particular 
concern to Mr M was that neither L&G nor our investigator  gave consideration to the part of 
the histology report where Dermal Regression  to a depth of 0.6mm is mentioned. He felt 
this was a fundamental part of the report which  demonstrated the cancer had invaded 
beyond the epidermis.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it, but because I dont  think I need  to comment  on it to reach what  I think is 
the right outcome.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M as this has been a difficult  time for him. But Id 
like to take some time to explain how Ive reached  my decision.  
Im not a medical  expert  and in reaching my outcome Ive only looked at whether L&Gs 
decision not to pay Mr Ms claim was fair, based on the information available to it at the time. 
If new evidence becomes available, Mr M can present  this to L&G to consider. If L&G 
doesnt change  its decision  on Mr Ms claim,  wed be able to look at this as a new complaint.
Throughout his dealings with both L&G and with us, Mr M has maintained that his cancer  
has invaded beyond the epidermis. Mr M thinks this is the only criteria that needs  to be met 
for the claim to be paid.  But having  reviewed L&Gs cancer definition carefully, I dont think  
this is the case.  
I think L&Gs policy definition for cancer is clear.  It wont  pay any cancer  claim if the cancer 
is in situ. In the case of malignant melanoma, it wont  pay the claim if the cancer hasnt 
invaded beyond the epidermis. The clause relating to cancers in situ makes it clear that it 
applies to all cancers, which would  include Mr Ms malignant melanoma.   
Both Mr M and L&G have provided  their views on whether Mr Ms cancer has been  
histologically proven to have invaded  beyond the epidermis. I can understand why this has 
become Mr Ms focus for his complaint, particularly as he thought  this was the only criteria 
that needed to be met for a claim for malignant  melanoma to be paid.  
Ref: DRN18036053However, whether  the cancer has invaded beyond the epidermis or not isnt the main  issue 
here. Its clear from the histology report that Mr Ms cancer is diagnosed  as a primary 
cutaneous in situ malignant melanoma.  And so whether the cancer has invaded beyond  the 
epidermis or not, the diagnosis of in situ means  it doesnt meet  the policy definition.  For this 
reason, I think L&Gs  decision not to pay the claim is fair. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. As Ive said above, if Mr M has more 
evidence to support  his claim, then he should provide that to L&G. Hes also able to make a 
new claim, any time before the policy  ends, if his situation changes.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1803605