K821x#15complaint
Mrs S and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) plc mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. A copy  is attached  and 
forms part of this decision. In summary, I said that, if Bank of Scotland  had followed the 
correct procedures when  recommending  the policy, Mrs S and Mrs C would have realised 
they didnt need it. So I thought Bank of Scotland should refund the premiums and some 
interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S and Mrs C accepted my provisional decision.  Bank of Scotland  did too, and has made 
an offer to compensate Mrs S and Mrs C in line with how we work  out such  offers.
Im therefore  issuing this final decision for completeness.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and I order Bank of Scotland plc to:
Cancel the policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and:
Pay Mrs S and Mrs C the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs S or Mrs C made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give
Mrs S and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 August  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18087902copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs S and Mrs C complain  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a mortgage PPI policy taken  out in Mrs Ss name  only in 2006.  The
policy was taken out during a meeting when Mrs S and Mrs C were applying  for a mortgage.
The policy provided  Mrs S with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. The monthly
cost of the policy was £16.89 and the monthly benefit was £284.38. This would  have been
paid for up to 12 months for each claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Mrs S and Mrs C disagreed with
the adjudicators  opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs S and Mrs Cs case.
The main questions  I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it recommended was 
suitable for Mrs Ss needs?
- Did Halifax give Mrs S the information  she and Mrs C needed to decide  whether  to take
out the policy?
If there  was a problem with the way the policy  was sold then I need to consider whether
Mrs S and Mrs C are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done  something
different  such as not taking  out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the
sale?
I am intending to uphold Mrs S and Mrs Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs S says Halifax didnt make it clear to her and her mother that the PPI was optional. I
dont need to make a finding  about whether or not Halifax presented the policy as optional,
because I have  another reason for upholding this complaint.
Halifax says that this was an advised sale. This means that, in recommending  the policy, it
needed to ensure that it suited  Mrs S and Mrs Cs needs. I do not think it was suitable based
on Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of the sale. I say this because:
Mrs S has told us about her circumstances at the time she bought the PPI. That includes the
fact that she thinks she had between £15,000 and £20,000 in savings  at the time of the sale.
We asked  her if she had any evidence to support that statement. Mrs S explained that she
was named on the mortgage because her mother couldnt afford  it by herself. Shes told us
about her family history and why this was so. That was that Mr C had died some years
earlier when Mrs S was a teenager. She and her mother had had to leave the family  home 
and the house purchase in 2006  was for a new family  home.
Mrs S says she lived with her mother for many years and continually saved towards her own
Ref: DRN18087903home, which she hoped to buy at some point in the future. Shes  been able to show us that
she had saved  £53,000 or thereabouts by 2013, so it seems  reasonable to say she had at
least £15,000  in 2006. And, given the reason why she was saving, I think  its also
reasonable to think shed have kept that money separate from the house purchase with her
mother.
Mrs S also told us she had work related  benefits that would pay her full salary  for 6 months
and then half her salary for another 6 months if she was ill. If we add those benefits to her
likely savings,  and compare the total to her salary  at the time (about £17,000) it doesnt look
as though  Mrs S needed the cover the policy provided, so it wasnt suitable  for her.
I think  Halifax  would have discovered  the policy  wasnt suitable for Mrs S if it had checked
her circumstances properly when selling  the policy.
I think  that if Mrs S and Mrs C had been properly advised and informed, they most likely
wouldnt have taken the policy.
In summary, I do not consider the PPI was suitable for Mrs S and Mrs C because of Mrs Ss
savings and work benefits.
what the business should do to put things  right
Halifax should  put Mrs S and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax should:
 Pay Mrs S and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI
 Add simple  interest  to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 If Mrs S or Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax  can take off what
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Halifax  to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must  give
Mrs S and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  to uphold this complaint.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1808790