K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995. The policy  was added  to Mr Cs 
Marks & Spencer charge card account when he opened the account in a shop. It cost 64p 
for every £100 owed  on the account. If Mr C had successfully  claimed  on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid out 15% of the account balance  - as 
at the date Mr C stopped  working - each  month  until Mr C either went back to work or the 
balance was cleared. The policy also provided  life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
 The store card application form which  Mr C completed included a separate  section 
about PPI. There was a box to tick if the applicant wished to take PPI. Mr C ticked the 
box and filled in his name in a box marked Full name of insured person. Taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied  that Allianz made Mr C aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it, knowing that he didnt have to  although I can 
understand why he may no longer remember this so many years  later.
 From  what we know about the Allianz sold PPI on Marks & Spencer  store  cards  at the 
time, I think its unlikely that it recommended the PPI to Mr C. I acknowledge that the 
form says We strongly  recommend you take this cover by ticking  the box. But I dont 
think Mr C would have considered this pre-printed  statement to be a personalised 
recommendation addressed particularly to him. 
 Overall,  I dont  think Allianz advised  Mr C to buy the policy. This means  it didnt need  to 
ensure that it was suitable for his circumstances.  It was for Mr C to decide  whether or 
not to take the PPI, knowing what alternative means hed have had of making his 
monthly payments if he couldnt work. But Allianz  did need to give Mr C enough 
information to allow him to make an informed decision about whether or not to buy the 
policy.
 Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Im satisfied  that he chose to take out the policy,  even if hes 
understandably forgotten this. So it looks as if he wanted this type of cover. And based 
on what hes told us, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations (for 
example, provisions about  unusual working arrangements  or existing medical 
conditions). 
Ref: DRN15464742 I acknowledge that Mr Cs told us that hed have received some sick pay from his job. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to this, and potentially for longer than 
hed have received  full pay for. And he wouldnt have had to use his savings to make  
his monthly repayments.  So taking everything  into account, I think  the policy could  
have been useful to him.
 The policy was competitively priced  and Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr C couldnt 
afford it. So even though  I think Allianz could have explained the cost and benefits of 
the policy more  clearly, its unlikely, in my view, that Mr C would have made  a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance  I think  hed still have  
taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Cs comments, including what  hes said about having applied  
for the card as part of an in-store promotional campaign, in which  a bottle of Bucks Fizz was 
given to people  who signed up for a store card on that day. But this doesnt  change my 
conclusion that it was made clear to Mr C that he had a choice about whether to take out the 
PPI.
Mr Cs also mentioned that he felt pressured  into taking the policy. To uphold  the complaint 
on this point, Id need to be convinced  that its more likely than not that unfair pressure was 
put on Mr C to take the PPI. And Im not satisfied  that I can fairly  reach  this conclusion based 
purely on Mr Cs recollection of applying for the card more  than 20 years ago. So this doesnt 
alter my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1546474