K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains that she wasnt able to use a prepaid card she purchased  from
R. Raphael & Sons Plc trading as Travelex to purchase an airline  ticket.  As a result and 
without access to any other  funds  she was left stranded at an airport.
To settle her complaint, she would like £100  compensation for each day she was stranded 
and £500 for missing her obligations overseas.
background
I set out the background  to Miss As complaint in my provisional  decision a copy  extract  of 
which is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing to uphold  Miss As complaint in 
part.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Travelex agrees with my provisional  decision  but Miss A doesnt. Miss A has 
provided detailed  comments for my consideration which Ive summarised below using my 
own words to do so.
She would  like a humanitarian payment due to being  stranded at the airport solely  
due to Travelexs fault. 
She incurred expenses for missed accommodation at her destination and wasnt  able 
to attend a job interview.
She said she only bought the Travelex card because it was advertised as working 
well in the UK and she wouldnt have been stranded at the airport had she used  cash  
instead.
She doesnt think her concerns about whether or not the card was 3D secure have 
been resolved.
She maintains  that her payment didnt go through because Travelex  recorded the 
wrong address  for her. She thinks that when Travelex signs up customers  it should  
ensure customers sign to confirm their details are correct.
She says she never received the £100  that Travelex  said it refunded to her card.
She says Travelex delayed refunding her even though  the merchant quickly  
confirmed that it would refund her. She says Travelex  was unhelpful and rude and 
she reported to them daily and they knew she was stranded. She says that had 
Travelex expedited her refund  she wouldnt  have  had a claim.
She explained that when airlines are delayed they must  provide compensation and 
payments for food but she was stranded  for five days without money due to Travelex.
She feels she deserves more  compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN11590942I thank Miss A for her detailed comments. Id like to reassure her that Ive considered  her 
comments carefully but in keeping  with our role as an informal dispute resolution  service I 
will not respond in similar detail. I will focus  on those  issues on which  I think a fair 
outcome will turn.
Ill start by restating my role in this complaint. I can see that Miss A is very upset about  the 
way shes been  treated  by Travelex. When a business has made  a mistake, my role is to 
come to an impartial decision on what is fair and reasonable to put things right.  And my role 
isnt to punish Travelex.
Miss A feels she should be paid compensation on a similar basis to that paid by airlines 
when a flight is delayed  but Ive seen  nothing to suggest that Miss As situation falls within  
the circumstances of the specific  scheme she has referred to. 
I agree  there was an unreasonable delay while Travelex processed the refund to Miss As 
card but Im still of the opinion that Travelex wasnt entirely responsible for the position  
Miss A found herself in for the reasons  I set out in my provisional decision. 
Ive thought carefully about whether to award further compensation for the time Miss A was 
stranded at the airport - in light of the further  information she has provided. Miss A explained 
that she incurred  the cost of numerous telephone calls at the time and she told us she had to 
remain at the airport  until Travelex refunded  her as she told us she didnt have additional 
funds.  I think  it must have been  very stressful and inconvenient  for her while she waited to 
be refunded by Travelex. I can see she was in regular contact with them about her situation 
throughout and Travelex  was aware  that she stranded. Taking everything into consideration I 
think its fair and reasonable to increase the compensation I outlined in my provisional  
decision by a further £100 to reflect this.
I was sorry to hear that Miss A wasnt able to attend a job interview and Im sympathetic  to 
the position she found herself in. To be able to award compensation  to Miss A I would need 
to be satisfied that the reason she wasnt offered the job was because of Travelexs delay in 
refunding her. Im not satisfied that was the case here because even if Miss A had been able 
to attend the interview I cannot  be certain  that she would have been offered the job.  
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and the further comments Ive made above, 
I think a fair and reasonable response to this complaint is to ask Travelex  to pay a further 
£100 compensation in addition to that I set out in my provisional  decision. I realise this is 
likely to come as a disappointment  to Miss A but it brings to an end what we  as an informal  
dispute resolution service   can do to resolve  her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint  in part and I direct  
Raphael & Sons Plc to pay £350 compensation to Miss A for the stress and inconvenience 
caused to her due to Travelexs  delay  in refunding her card save  to the extent any part of the 
award has already  been paid to Miss A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN11590943copy extract of provisional decision
complaint
Miss A complains  that she wasnt able to use a prepaid card she purchased  from
R. Raphael & Sons Plc trading as Travelex to purchase an airline  ticket.  As a result and 
without access to any other funds she was left stranded at an airport.
To settle  her complaint,  she would  like £100 compensation for each day she was 
stranded and £500 for missing her obligations  overseas.
background
Miss A purchased a Travelex card on 8 August  2018 at a UK airport. She tried to use the 
card to purchase a flight from a merchant on 9 August 2018. She thinks  her payment was 
rejected because Travelex incorrectly input her address and she wasnt able to provide a 
utility bill to the merchant showing a matching address. As a result her ticket  wasnt issued 
and she had no other funds to buy a new ticket.
The merchant reversed  the transaction on 10 August 2018 and Miss A received a refund 
from Travelex on 14 August 2018. Miss A told us that due to Travelexs errors, she was 
stranded in the airport from 8 August 2018 - the date she bought  the card until 20 August  
 the date of her outbound flight.  Shed like £100 compensation for each day she was 
stranded at the airport and £500 for the obligations she missed  overseas.
Miss A complained to Travelex. It said it hadnt made an error  because it had approved 
the transaction and it was their understanding that it was the merchant who had declined  
the transaction. However, it agreed that the service provided to Miss A wasnt as good  as 
it should have  been and it applied  £100 to her account as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with Travelexs response, Miss A referred  her complaint to our service. Our 
adjudicator didnt think Travelex was responsible for the transaction  being declined.  She 
thought the transaction  was declined because the merchant required 3D security to 
complete the transaction and Miss As card wasnt 3D secured. As this was the reason the 
payment failed, our adjudicator didnt make  any finding about the address Travelex had
registered for her.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Travelex had treated her fairly because  it took a long time for it 
to refund her. Our adjudicator could  see Miss A had contacted Travelex about the problems 
on 9 August 2018 and asked it to make  an urgent  refund on 10 August 2018  - when she 
also attached  the merchants notice  of the refund. However, it didnt  refund  her account until 
14 August 2018.  Our adjudicator thought this delay was unreasonable  taking into account 
that Miss A had made it aware she was trapped in an airport  without any further funds to 
purchase another ticket. And she contacted  them everyday  to try to resolve the situation.
The adjudicator didnt have any evidence to show  why Miss A was delayed  at the airport 
beyond 14 August  when  the money  was refunded to her card - so she didnt 
recommend any compensation for this period.
Considering the distress  and inconvenience Miss A experienced during the five days 
she went without the refund  she recommended  that Travelex should pay an additional 
£300 compensation in addition to the compensation it had already offered.
Ref: DRN11590944Miss A disagrees with the adjudicators view. She says the merchant never told her the 
transaction failed  due to the 3D secure  issue. She says the transaction failed because the 
merchant asked her for proof of address and this didnt  match  the address Travelex had 
recorded when  she purchased the card. She also referred  us to Travelexs  website which  
suggests that its cards are 3D secured so she thinks Travelex  is responsible for the failure  
of her payment. Shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information Ive seen its not entirely  clear why Miss As payment was 
declined. Travelex explained  that it authorised the transaction  as shown by the 
authorisation code  on the SAGE pay document.
Miss A has provided copies of her emails  with the merchant. The merchants email 
on 9 August 2018 says: the payment was received when  the booking  was 
completed. Unfortunately it is not a password protected  transaction  and we are not 
able to authorise the payment. As such this payment will be reversed back to your 
card on receipt of the new 3D secure payment.  Hence, we would  request  you to use 
an alternate payment card or enrol  your card for 3D secure by contacting  your 
bank. This suggests that the merchant declined her transaction not because  of 
problems with her address  but because  her card wasnt 3D enabled. That being 
the case I wont make any finding about whether or not Travelex correctly recorded 
Miss As address as this doesnt appear  to be the reason why the transaction  failed.
Miss A cant understand why her payment  failed because  Travelexs  website says its cards  
are 3D secure. We asked  Travelex about this and it confirmed its cards  are 3D secure. It 
told us that customers  should  enter the required information at transaction  stage and 
Travelex cant be held responsible if this wasnt added.
As Travelex has confirmed it approved the transaction and taking into account that it also 
told us its prepaid cards  are 3D secure, its not clear why the transaction  declined.  I dont 
think it would  be fair to hold Travelex entirely  responsible for this because I have no way 
of knowing the information Miss A entered when she tried to make her payment. And 
Miss A also told she downloaded an additional app to make  the payment  and there may 
be many  reasons why the app didnt work and which might  not have been  related to any 
failure on Travelexs part. But I think it would  be fair and reasonable to ask Travelex  to 
help put matters right because it took a long time to refund  Miss A. So Ill look at the 
impact the delay had on her.
The information Ive seen shows Miss A contacted Travelex about her transaction being 
declined on 9 August 2018 but it didnt refund her account until 14 August 2018. Miss A 
was in regular  contact with both Travelex and the merchant throughout this period to try to 
resolve matters.
I think it took Travelex a long time to return the funds to Miss As card especially as shed 
made clear she was trapped in an airport without  funds  to purchase another  ticket. But I 
dont think Travelexs delay in refunding  the money to her card was entirely  to blame  for 
the length of time she was left stranded  at the airport without access  to any funds. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN11590945Miss A provided details  of her correspondence with the merchant. This shows that when  
she tried to use her Travelex card on 9 August 2018, it was for a flight on 12 August 2018. 
So this was the date Miss A intended  to fly back. I can see that Miss A later tried to change 
her flight  to an earlier date but the merchant told her this was only possible if she were to 
pay more. Miss A told us she didnt  have access to any other funds, I therefore think its 
more likely than not that she wouldnt have had the funds to secure a flight  any earlier than
12 August 2018.  That being  the case, I dont think it would be fair to hold Travelex  
responsible for Miss A being stuck in the airport from when she first tried to use her 
Travelex card on 9 August 2018 to the date she would have flown  out had her payment 
been successful  on 12 August  2018.
I also dont consider it appropriate  to award  any compensation to Miss A for delays beyond  
14 August 2018.  I appreciate Miss A had to wait for her card to be refunded  by Travelex 
before she could book another flight but Im not persuaded  that the delay in securing an 
alternative flight was as a result of Travelexs delay. Rather, I think  the delay in Miss A 
being able to secure an earlier flight was because she had to ensure she could secure a 
flight with the limited funds she had available  and I cant  say this was as a result  of any 
fault on Travelexs part.
It follows that I think it would only be fair and reasonable  for Travelex to pay compensation 
to Miss A for the delay  between 12 August 2018  - when she would have  flown  out had her 
payment been  successful  - and the date it refunded her on 14 August  2018.
Miss A hasnt provided  any information in support of the £500  compensation she seeks 
for her missed  obligations  overseas - so I dont consider it appropriate to award any 
compensation for this.
Travelex initially agreed to pay £100 compensation to Miss A and since  the involvement 
of our service it agreed to pay a further  £150 compensation. In the circumstances and for 
the reasons Ive explained above I think this compensation  is fair and reasonable for the 
stress and inconvenience  caused to Miss A due to Travelexs delay in refunding her 
travel card.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in the sense that R. 
Raphael & Sons Plc agreed  to increase Miss As compensation following the involvement 
of our service. I therefore intend to direct  R. Raphael & Sons Plc to pay £250 
compensation to Miss A for the stress  and inconvenience caused to her due to Travelexs  
delay in refunding her card save to the extent any part of the award has already been  paid 
to Miss A.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 25 April 2020 changes my mind,  thats  
what Ill tell R. Raphael  & Sons Plc to do in my final decision.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1159094