K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC froze his main account and denied  him access  
to his money. The bank then closed  all of his accounts.
background 
Mr J banked with Barclays. He set up accounts  for his two children and was putting  money  
into each account  on a monthly basis.  But Barclays froze  the accounts without warning. Mr J 
explained to the bank  hed sold some items and put the money in his personal account 
before moving  it to his business account. Mr J said Barclays wouldnt explain why his 
accounts had been frozen. And it then asked for proof of funds to show where  the deposits 
had come from. 
After Mr J provided the information he was told everything was okay. But Barclays wrote to 
him in January 2018. After careful consideration itd decided not to continue as his bankers. 
So it was closing his four accounts. Barclays said he would  have to make alternative banking  
arrangements. 
When Barclays closed his account  they also closed  his childrens accounts. Mr J said he 
was saving for his daughters operation. And Barclays actions have caused a lot of upset 
and difficulty for Mr Js family. His wifes health has been badly  affected.  So hes declined its 
offer of £400.  He wants more compensation for the suffering  Barclays  has caused.  
Barclays said safeguards  had been placed on Mr Js account on 29 December 2017.  And an 
internal investigation had taken place. Barclays said itd taken the action  in line with the 
terms of the account.  And itd been  unable to provide further  information  while  the 
safeguards had been in place. Following the review Barclays  said it decided to close  the 
account on 11 January  2018. It could appreciate Mr Js concerns. And his funds had now 
been released. But it felt the decision to close the accounts had been correct.  The bank was 
sorry for the impact thisd had on Mr J and the time itd taken to review  his account. And itd 
offered £400 by way of apology.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Barclays response. So he contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She felt Barclays was entitled  to freeze Mr Js account  
while it undertook  an investigation. And it was able to end the business  relationship  without 
further explanation. But she agreed the bank had taken  too long to conclude its review. So 
she felt the £400 offered by Barclays was fair.
Mr J didnt agree. He said he wanted  £1000  for the poor service  hed received while  trying to 
resolve the problems  with Barclays. Itd greatly  affected his family. But after considering the 
banks offer again Mr J decided  he just wanted closure. So he said he would accept  the 
£400 on the condition that any adverse  markers  were removed from his credit file. Mr J said 
his credit score had been badly affected  and it must  be because of Barclays.
Barclays credited Mr J with £400 and confirmed itd previously removed the report from the 
fraud prevention agency. But Mr J believes  Barclays has spoken to other banks. Theyve 
now also closed his accounts. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN14899542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has explained the impact this has had on both him and his family. And I do understand 
how upsetting  this mustve been. So Ive looked  very carefully at everything thats happened. 
And everything both Mr J and Barclays have  said. 
Barclays had concerns about how Mr Js account was being used. So it froze the account 
while it carried out an investigation. I do understand the impact  this wouldve had on Mr J. It 
happened just after the Christmas period. And it meant Mr J wasnt able to access his funds 
or provide for his young family.  
Barclays said it normally tries to conclude such investigations within  ten days. But on this 
occasion it took a few days  longer.  And I can see the bank has paid compensation for the 
delay.
I dont underestimate  how upsetting  and difficult this mustve been for Mr J. His bank 
account had been frozen.  And Barclays said it was carrying  out an investigation but it 
wouldnt explain why. 
But Barclays, like any other bank, will act when it has concerns about a customers account. 
Something might pose  a threat to either  the customer or the bank itself. So as distressing as 
this was I think Barclays was right to freeze Mr Js account while it looked into certain  
matters. And Barclays doesnt have  to explain to the customer why its taken that action  in 
some cases  that might  alert a fraudster to what its looking for.
Barclays asked Mr J to explain a number  of cash deposits into his account. And Mr J was 
able to show evidence  about the source of the funds. Barclays confirmed it was happy with 
Mr Js response. And it released the funds in the account so that Mr J could access  them.
But the bank felt it wasnt able to continue  the relationship any longer. And it wrote  to say it 
was closing all four of his accounts. Again I can understand how upsetting this mustve been  
for Mr J. But the terms and conditions of the accounts do allow Barclays to close  the 
accounts, without  notice or explanation,  if it feels its necessary to do so.
Because Barclays had concerns about the cash deposits being made into the account it 
reported to CIFAS, the fraud-sharing organisation. But Mr J provided  evidence  about the 
source of his cash deposits. And Barclays has confirmed it removed the loadings  to CIFAS 
in May 2018.
Mr J opened bank  accounts elsewhere after Barclays withdrew its services. But hes now 
received letters from another bank saying its closing his account. And he feels Barclays 
mustve lied about the CIFAS report being withdrawn or its contacted  the other banks to tell 
them about  it.
Ive checked whats on CIFAS and theres  nothing showing in relation to the problems 
Mr J had with Barclays. So I believe Barclays did remove  the loadings  in May 2018  as it said 
it did. And Ive not seen  anything to suggest Barclays has tried to contact any other banks to 
warn them  about  Mr J. Thats not the normal course of action. Banks rely on a number of 
external sources  such as fraud and reference  agencies rather than discussing customers 
between themselves. 
Ref: DRN14899543So while I realise  Mr J is experiencing ongoing problems with his banking I cant  say 
Barclays has done anything that might be causing  his current  problems. As Ive said,  it 
removed its loadings to CIFAS over a year ago. And Barclays has confirmed it removed any 
negative information  it may have recorded that would  stop Mr J opening an account  
elsewhere.
Mr J is also unhappy with how Barclays responded when he tried to find out what was 
happening. And he feels some of the service he received  was rude and unhelpful. And I do 
understand how distressing this mustve been  for Mr J and his family.
But based  on everything Ive seen I think Barclays followed its procedures correctly  when it 
suspended and then closed Mr Js accounts.  Although it released  his funds after the 
investigation it felt it wasnt  able to continue the banking relationship. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest what Barclays did is now affecting Mr Js relationships with other banks.
Im not able to consider compensation for the impact  this mightve had on members of Mr Js 
family. But Ive looked  at everything thats  happened and listened to everything Mr J has 
said. I realise he wants Barclays to increase the compensation because hes now struggling  
to find banking facilities elsewhere. But as Ive said I cant see anything linking Barclays 
actions to Mr Js current  situation.
Barclays paid Mr J £400 compensation  for the inconvenience  caused when it suspended his 
account and denied him access  to his funds for nearly two weeks.  I think  thats a fair and 
reasonable response. Its in line with the sort of award our service would make  in the 
circumstances. And its confirmed its not reporting  anything that might be affecting  Mr Js 
credit file. I hope Mr J is able to resolve  his current problems. But I wont be asking the bank  
to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr J £400  compensation as it 
has already done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1489954