K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy with mortgage  lending. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D initially bought the policy in 1996, but it looks like they topped  up the cover in 
both 1998 and 1999, to reflect  more borrowing (further advances) on their mortgage.  
Because of the timescales  involved,  Ive had to make some  reasonable assumptions about 
these three  sales and the policy rules in place at the time. And Ive also used my experience 
of similar  sales  when thinking about what most  likely happened.
It seems  Mr and Mrs D applied for the mortgages and PPI policies in a branch. The PPI 
provided cover for the policyholder(s)  for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It looks like the PPI was split between Mr and Mrs D on a 
70/30% basis, which means he was insured slightly more that Mrs D. 
The policy offered to repay up to a maximum of £213 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage balance  initially, in the event  of a successful claim. But after the 1998 and 1999 
top-ups it would have paid out more, depending  on what had happened and which one of 
them had claimed. Although somewhat  unlikely,  both could have  made successful claims. At 
the time of the first sale, in 1996, the PPI cost around £19 a month. This went  up to £43 in 
1998 and £93 in 1999 to reflect the larger lending amounts.
Again, because of the length of time thats passed,  I cant be sure of all the changes to the 
PPI cover over the time they had it, but it looks like at some  point the person insured 
reduced down  to covering only Mr D at some point. 
So, in short, there were three PPI sales with three lending  events.  And it looks very much 
like to me that Mr and Mrs D engaged in these sales and arranged  (and changed)  the cover 
suit their ongoing and emerging circumstances of the late 1990s. 
At around that time, Mr D was employed  as service  team operative and Mrs D as a carer.  
Neither appears to have  had sick pay with their work but Ive assumed they would be entitled 
to at least the state minimum  sick pay. One of them said theyd  suffered  from chicken  pox in 
the 1980s, but I dont think this is relevant to the sales of the PPI. Lloyds has sent us 
screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2005.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all very carefully.  
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN15255872The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The sales  took place  in 1996,  1998  and 1999, before the General Insurance  Standards 
Council (GISC)  published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general 
insurance products  like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC  Code, the 
FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct rules 
(ICOB and ICOBs)  arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance 
(PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN15255873There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way 
 the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN15255874-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs D and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  this complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. As Ive implied, we have  only 
certain pieces of information / documentation  left to refer to here. Given how long ago all this 
was, this isnt unreasonable and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.  
However, Ive seen quite  a few similar sales to this. My experience of them is that 
consumers, like Mr and Mrs D, would have needed to specifically agree to PPI with their 
mortgage(s) for it to be added. Indeed, I see we have evidence from the 1998 mortgage  
application that they did agree. They ticked a box confirming they wanted  to take PPI out.
But of course, Mr and Mrs D bought  PPI on three  separate occasions.  They  also split the 
benefit in a way that seemed to reflect their different incomes and at one point they flipped 
the cover  completely in favour of Mr D.
The company representing them says Mr and Mrs D werent told enough  or given any 
paperwork about the PPI cover. But this would have  needed to happen on all three 
occasions  and I think thats very unlikely. I think that on all three  occasions  they would 
have needed to show they agreed  to the cover and also agree to set up direct debits 
authorising the PPI premiums to be paid. All these circumstances, to me, strong imply that 
Mr and Mrs D engaged  in the sales and the ongoing  management of the policies.
Taking everything into account,  I think its much more likely that Mr and Mrs D knew  the 
policies were optional  and they agreed  to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds agrees that advice was provided during  the sales  which  means it had to advise Mr 
and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or 
suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. It seems  Mr and Mrs D cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policies on 
each occasion.  This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had 
some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether they would have been 
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet their needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered 
whether they had any pre-existing  medical conditions.
Ref: DRN15255875Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-They both met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ds ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for any statutory sick 
pay benefits or, potentially, savings.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs D. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ds employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for him or her to claim. Other than the chicken pox, they havent 
told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions that could  affect their ability  to 
claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that they be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
their circumstances,  including  they were  both working (which  they might  
expect to provide  an income during the policys 60-day qualification period) 
and the limits to those  provisions, which mean the policy  could play an 
important role after those  provisions  were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs D be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
either of them  were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
Ref: DRN15255876approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs D 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the lack of evidence from the time of sale doesnt help assure me whether Lloyds gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ds. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  
While I cant be certain  what  a court  would  say  I think  its unlikely a court  would find that 
this extended  to the insurer having to disclose the claims ratio information  or explaining the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested.  And 
taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good industry practice 
applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Lloyds  
ought to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs D suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
D. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs D would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
Ref: DRN15255877While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs D suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs D would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event. Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt have taken it out and believeI  should presume 
this to be the case given the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
I think its more likely, given my knowledge  of these products that Lloyds  sold at that time, 
that the information Mr and Mrs D were  given about  the cost and/or  benefit was clear  
enough. Overall, Im not persuaded  Mr and Mrs D found the costs unacceptable. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions may not 
have been as clear  as it should have been.   
In addition, Im not able to see Lloyds made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs D would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ds 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that policyholder  knew  
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
policyholders werent permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  the policyholder be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN15255878I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest either wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  neither had any 
pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent employment. So, I still think  they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions may have been more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs D might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
be able to make a disability claim anyway,  even if this condition  did apply, without having to 
provide some evidence  to support  that claim. And while  this limitation might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs D from taking  out the 
policy, Mr and Mrs D, in their circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if they were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Its possible Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs D that any claim they made would be 
limited to a 12-month  period. This may have  differed  from what they expected and might 
have hoped for  but they had limited other means to fall back  on and I think theyd have 
considered their home being otherwise placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if they were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs D would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN15255879the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs D found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs D think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996,  1998 and 1999 when providing  information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN152558710Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1525587