K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) on a mortgage that started in 
1989. Mr and Mrs C say The Co-operative  Bank  Plc trading as Britannia Building  Society  
(Co-op) mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
I sent a provisional  decision  saying I was planning  to decide the PPI wasnt  mis-sold but 
Co-op had to pay back some of the commission  which it had already repaid. I said Id 
consider anything else Mr and Mrs C or Co-op wanted to give me. 
Mr and Mrs C have replied with further points. In the light of evidence provided  and 
statements made by Mr and Mrs C about  Mr Cs health which I shared with Co-op, Co-op 
has said it wouldve upheld the accident  and sickness element of Mr and Mrs Cs second  
PPI policy  if Co-op had been  given this evidence to start with.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
This complaint is about the sale of PPI. Ive considered  the sales of two PPI policies that ran 
while Mr and Mrs Cs 1989 mortgage was in force. Each provided accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover  on Mr C only with a benefit payable for up to twelve  months.  The 
second started in 2000 and was sold around  then. The first started no later than 1991  
schedules for it sent to us by Mr and Mrs C show a November 1991  start date.
Ive proceeded  on the basis that the first sale most likely took place in 1991   the start date 
shown on the schedules Ive seen. Also the earliest  trace Co-op has said it has of the policy 
is a system note showing PPI started  in 1991. The possibility  it was taken out earlier  does 
arise because the schedules show an address Mr and Mrs C lived at before 1991. But Ive 
no documentary evidence  dated  earlier than 1991  that shows  the existence  of the policy. 
Taking everything into account,  the address on the schedules isnt enough  to make me think  
the policy didnt  start on the 1991 date stated on those schedules.
Given the evidence  I received  after my provisional  decision  about  Mr Cs health  issue prior to 
the second sale and what Co-op  has said about this, I havent  any reason to think the 
accident and sickness cover shouldve been  sold for Mr C at the second sale. So I uphold  
the complaint  about the accident and sickness cover on the second policy. But Ive decided 
the rest of the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Having carefully considered everything  I have, there isnt enough to make me think  Co-op  
pressured or misled  Mr and Mrs C into taking the PPI or started  it without their agreement or 
without giving them a choice. There is little from the sales themselves to show  exactly  what 
took place, but thats not surprising  given the time thats passed.  I bear in mind also that 
Mr and Mrs Cs recollections and what they have said about the sales concerns  events  some  
considerable time ago, so I wouldnt expect them to recall  all the details vividly.
Ref: DRN12669042Also, for the second policy,  there  is an application  form Mr and Mrs C signed.  I note there  is 
a memo and letter explaining that the policy replaced the first policy  which had an address 
issue due to the cover  being for the wrong  house of which I thought  had been transferred  
with the mortgage change  But I dont think this means Mr and Mrs C didnt want  cover at 
that time or were misled  into believing  they had to have  the cover. Neither the letter or memo 
nor anything else Ive seen that dates from the time of that sale makes me think  that 
Mr and Mrs C were misled at that time into thinking they had to have cover.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said about thinking the first policy started before 
1991 during or with an earlier mortgage. But even  if the PPI had started  earlier or at the 
same time as a mortgage, this wouldnt in itself show that Co-op misled Mr and Mrs C into 
taking it out or didnt  give them a choice. Mr and Mrs C have provided no documents  for the 
earlier mortgage and Co-op has told us it no longer has any documents  for it. So Ive nothing 
from the time to suggest that Mr and Mrs C were  misled into taking  the PPI at that time. With 
all that in mind, even if I were persuaded the first policy did start earlier  than 1991, or with an 
earlier mortgage, it wouldnt change  my view that I havent enough to say that Mr and Mrs C 
were misled or werent given a choice  or didnt agree to the cover.
Mr and Mrs C have also suggested  that, if the sale of the first policy did take place in 1991,  
they wouldnt have  signed an application  form that had the wrong  address on it. So, as the 
policy didnt have their 1991 address, Mr and Mrs C suggest this supports that they werent 
involved in an application process for it and were just sent documents  and thought they had 
to have it. I accept this possibility isnt inconsistent  with the address evidence,  but I dont 
think its the only possibility that evidence could  support. An incorrect  address isnt, overall, 
enough to make me think Mr and Mrs C didnt  agree  to or choose to take the cover.
Overall, what  I have  isnt enough to make me think  that Co-op misled Mr and Mrs C about 
having to take the PPI  or failed to make  it clear to them that they had a choice  about  taking 
it. And I havent anything  overall that persuades me Mr and Mrs C didnt agree to the cover.
Mr and Mrs C have said Co-op  recommended the PPI. Co-op says it didnt. But if Co-op did 
recommend Mr and Mrs C the PPI, Co-op had to check it was right for them.  And, from what  
Ive seen of their circumstances, I think the first policy  and the unemployment cover on the 
second policy was right for Mr and Mrs C.
For example, the policy benefit would pay out for twelve months and Mr C was likely entitled 
to less than twelve  months full pay if he were sick or made  redundant. So Mr and Mrs C 
seem to have had a need for the cover on Mr C. Also Mr C was the main earner when the 
mortgage was taken  Mrs Cs employment wasnt recorded on the mortgage application 
and later papers  suggest she worked part-time  earning much  less than Mr C. The policy 
benefit wouldve  been valuable for Mr and Mrs C if Mr C lost his job or was too sick to work.
Also what  Ive seen doesnt  persuade me Mr C was significantly affected at the time of the 
first sale by any exclusions  or limits that mightve  applied to the cover. Mr C was employed 
full time and wasnt affected by any terms affecting  temporary workers. Mr and Mrs C have  
recently told us of evidence theyve found  of medical  treatment  Mr C received in 1992. They  
recall this health issue being ongoing  for a time before  that  and there being various tests  
although it isnt an issue Mr and Mrs C have  recalled before now. But assuming Mr C was 
aware of the issue before  the sale, what Mr and Mrs C have told us about the issue doesnt 
suggest to me that its impact or the chance of it causing Mr C to miss work  in future was 
significant enough to make the cover not worthwhile for Mr and Mrs C in their circumstances 
 or significant enough to have changed  their decision to take the cover.
Ref: DRN12669043Also Im satisfied Mr C was eligible for the cover. Mr and Mrs C think he wasnt eligible for 
the first policy. Schedules  for it show an address Mr and Mrs C werent living  at in 1991. 
Years later the policy was replaced  due to the cover being for the wrong house of which I 
thought had been transferred with the mortgage change The application form for the 
second policy, referring to the Full address of mortgaged property, says that to be eligible 
you must be the owner occupier of the above property secured under an agreement  with 
any lender. Mr and Mrs C say its reasonable to assume the first policy had similar terms. 
They say all this indicates a consumer was only eligible if they lived at and held a mortgage 
on, in their words,  the property addressed  within the application. So, as the address on the 
first policy was wrong and may have been  wrong  from the start or on the application  form, 
Mr and Mrs C say this means it was never valid.
We dont have a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs application form for the first policy.  I agree theres 
no reason to suppose  its terms  were  significantly different from those we do have.  But the 
above property  the application  form says the applicant must own and live in refers to the 
mortgaged property - the property linked to the applicants mortgage agreement. This is 
apparent as the first page says the applicants must also be named on the mortgage 
account. So the mortgaged property  is the property linked to this mortgage account. The 
property linked to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  account was the property they owned and lived 
in. So Mr C was owner occupier  of the mortgaged property  and this wouldnt have been  
changed by the address not being correctly entered on the application form or on the policy.
So I dont  agree that the application form wording  means Mr C was ineligible  for the policy  if 
the address wasnt  entered correctly.  And Im still not persuaded an incorrect address on the 
application form, or attached to the policy in some other way, wouldve made the cover  
invalid at the start. Id add that similar wording in the policy  eligibility terms requires You  are 
the owner occupier of the property secured under the Agreement.  Agreement there  means 
A mortgagesecured  by a charge over Your principal residential property. This only 
seems to reinforce what Ive already said above  about the requirement  being that the 
applicant lives in and owns  the property their mortgage is for.
For the second sale Mr and Mrs C have said that from 1999 Mr C was on short term 
temporary contracts with a number of different companies  due to his company being taken 
over a number of times. Theyve also referred to Mr C feeling vulnerable to being  pushed out 
following the takeovers,  due to his health.  Also theyve sent information to show  that Mr Cs 
employer was taken  over in the mid-1990s and merged a few years  later. Theyve said Mr C 
was worried about  redundancy and this increased  due to events in the late 1990s.
Ive considered all this carefully. The eligibility  terms made it more  difficult for a fixed-term 
contract worker  to claim  and required also that the policyholder didnt know and couldnt  
reasonably be expected  to know of any unemployment that was likely  to happen to them.
But being  worried  about something isnt the same as having knowledge it is likely to happen. 
From what  Mr and Mrs C have told us, Mr C was worried about the security of his job before 
the late 1990s, this then intensified in the late 1990s and he was unemployed a few years 
after that. But Ive no evidence showing he had knowledge in 2000 that redundancy was 
likely to happen and Im not persuaded this was the case. I note also the PPI application 
form asked whether Mr C had been  notified of unemployment likely to affect  him or knew  of 
any reason why he might become unemployed within  six months. In each case the answer  
recorded was no. On the other hand, any worries  Mr C had about  redundancy wouldve 
made cover for it even more worthwhile for him at the time.
Ref: DRN12669044Also a merger wouldnt necessarily or ordinarily see long term employees on permanent 
contracts switched to temporary  or short term fixed contracts. I invited Mr and Mrs C to send 
anything else they had to show Mr Cs employment  situation did change  contractually. Ive 
carefully considered  the recollections  theyve  provided and what theyve said about problems 
affecting the company and events in the late 1990s.  But what I have overall  isnt enough to 
make me think Mr C transferred  to a temporary or fixed term contract in 1999.
Ive considered also the fact that an unemployment  claim  was attempted on the policy.  From 
what Mr C has said, the claim was unsuccessful and Ive thought about everything that has 
been said about this. But the failure  of a claim doesnt show  the cover wasnt suitable  for 
Mr C when he took it. A claim might  fail if unemployment is voluntary or not long enough or 
the claim isnt pursued  for example. But this wouldnt mean the cover  mustve been 
unsuitable when  it was taken out. Mr and Mrs C have said they have almost all the 
paperwork relating  to the mortgage and the unemployment claim, but I havent received any 
papers to show exactly what happened  to the claim or to support the view that it means  the 
cover wasnt  suitable. Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable  to conclude that the outcome 
of the claim isnt enough to show that the unemployment cover  on the second policy was 
most likely mis-sold.
Overall Im satisfied the first policy and unemployment cover on the second  policy  wasnt  
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C  and that Mr C was eligible for this cover when he took it.
Its possible the information Co-op gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I havent seen enough to make me think they didnt choose to take it. 
And if something went wrong it looks like the cover couldve been useful for them, for the 
reasons Ive already given. It also looks like it was affordable. Taking  everything into 
account, I dont  think  better information  wouldve put Mr and Mrs C off taking the cover.
Mr and Mrs C have also said Co-ops response to the complaint didnt address the first sale 
or say that Co-op had documents for it (in particular the schedules  Mr and Mrs C have sent 
us). Theyve  said Co-op  should  compensate them for the inconvenience  caused. 
Co-ops complaint  response referred  to the first policy, its policy number and the fact it was 
cancelled in 2000. It also said we  no longer hold any details on file If you believe this 
was a mis-sold MPPI  policy, please provide me with proof of the documentation  from the 
point of sale and proof  that premiums were paid to this policy.  So Co-op did at least mention 
that there  was an earlier policy and invited  Mr and Mrs C to say if they thought  it was PPI.
But a month after the complaint came to us Co-op told us it had worked  out the first policy 
was an MPPI policy  in Mr Cs name for accident,  sickness or unemployment to cover  a 
mortgage of £101.00 per month with a monthly premium of £2.89 (£2.89 actually being the 
cost of part of but not the whole  policy). So Co-op  probably couldve also worked all this out 
before it sent Mr and Mrs C its response. But even if that is so, and even though  our initial  
opinions didnt address the first policy, Co-op had told us the first policy was PPI only a 
month after we got the case - so any such failing  there cant be blamed  for a significant delay 
in progress. Also identifying and interpreting records for historic policies long since cancelled 
often isnt straightforward.
I note that Co-op  has also found  policy schedules for the first policy and I dont know how or 
when or whether it mightve found them earlier. But taking  into account everything  else Ive 
already said above,  Im not persuaded that failings in how Co-op went about its investigation 
Ref: DRN12669045or response  to the complaint are responsible for delays  that mightve caused inconvenience  
of a kind for which it would be fair and reasonable to award  compensation.
Ive considered all the points  Mr and Mrs C and Co-op  have made, although Ive commented 
specifically only on those  I consider most important or relevant to my decision.  In summary, 
my provisional decision didnt propose an award  for inconvenience and my outcome on that 
is unchanged. Likewise my outcome  on the commission aspect of the complaint is the same.  
But, as noted  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the accident and sickness  
cover on the second  policy.
So overall I dont  uphold the complaint about  the sale of the first policy  or the sale of the 
unemployment cover  on the second  policy. So Co-op doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost 
of this PPI to Mr and Mrs C.  But Co-op has paid back some of the cost of that PPI because:
Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Co-op  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Co-op has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
In saying what Ive said above about the commission  redress  Co-op has already paid, I dont 
overlook that the evidence raises a possibility that the PPI started earlier than 1991  but Ive 
explained why what I have isnt enough  to persuade me that this is more likely  than not.
Also I should  make  it clear  that what Ive considered and determined  here is Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint about  the sale of the PPI sold to them in connection with their 1989  mortgage. So 
Ive considered those  sales  and the argument  that an address issue made the first policy 
invalid at the point of sale. I havent considered the merits of any claims Mr and Mrs C made 
or couldve made on the policy  cover itself. Nor have I considered the merits of their request,  
arising from what theyve said was a failed claim  on the cover, for a refund of premiums paid 
from the point of that claim  onwards.  Also I havent  considered the merits of the handling of 
any such claims on the cover or the administration of the policies in general.  Those  werent 
matters to be determined  as part of the complaint  Ive determined  here about  the sales of 
PPI as further outlined and defined  above.
what the business needs  to do
Co-op should refund what Mr and Mrs C paid for the second policys accident  and sickness  
cover. Co-op should also pay Mr and Mrs C simple interest at 8%* per year on each 
payment from when they paid it until they get it back. From this redress  Co-op can deduct 
anything Mr and Mrs C got if they made a successful claim on this accident and sickness 
cover. Co-op can also deduct from this redress any commission  redress  it has already paid 
that is attributable  pro-rata to what Mr and Mrs C paid for this accident  and sickness  cover.
Co-op also has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Co-op  should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any extra 
interest they paid because of that. Co-op  should pay back  to Mr and Mrs C the extra they 
paid each month because the commission and profit share  it got was more  than 50% of the 
cost of PPI. Co-op  should also pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment 
(15% on payments before  April 1993). I understand Co-op has already done this.
Ref: DRN12669046*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. The Co-operative Bank Plc should put things right by doing 
what Ive said above.
The first policy and unemployment cover on the second policy wasnt  mis-sold   so 
The Co-operative Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of that to Mr and Mrs C.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C what  they paid for 
the second policys sickness and accident cover and, for the rest of the premiums, pay back 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1266904