K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs Z says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Zs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Z has said that the application  form for PPI had the option for PPI pre-selected 
and she couldnt  proceed with the application without keeping it checked. Mrs Z has 
also told us that she called Canada Square whilst completing her application but was 
told that she had to take out the insurance  in order to take out the credit card.
Ive carefully considered  this alongside screen  shots  that Canada Square  have 
shown us that they say are representative of what Mrs Z would  have seen when 
completing her online application.  These screen shots show two options  for PPI. 
Theres a Yes, I would  like to protect  my repayments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. and another option  that states; No, I do not wish to protect my 
repayments. The screen shorts provided  show two radio buttons and neither 
appears to be selected or pre-ticked has Mrs Z has recalled from her application. 
Ive also seen a copy of the application  report - that is the data collected from the 
application. It shows the option  for PPI was selected.
Ive considered what we know  more generally about  how Canada Square sold PPI 
online around the time this policy was taken out. Based on Canada Squares normal  
sales process, the PPI would have been  presented as optional  and an option was 
required to be selected for PPI.
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Canada Square  followed their 
normal online sales process during this sale and presented the PPI as optional. 
Without records of phone calls (which I wouldnt expect Mrs Z to keep after so many 
years) I havent  seen persuasive evidence that Canada Square  didnt  follow their 
normal online sales process during this sale. 
Ive also noted  what Mrs Z has said about  having  proof from a friend  that the option 
for PPI was pre-selected. Our Service considers each complaint on its own merits 
and no such evidence has been provided.  In any case  its possible that the evidence 
that Mrs Z has referred to could be for a different  business, date of sale or sales 
channel. So I cant fairly place the weight  that she may have  wanted  me to on it.  
Ref: DRN16780782  Canada  Square  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs Z so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs Z got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mrs Z about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs Z.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Z because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs Z about that. Because  Canada Square  
didnt tell Mrs Z, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs Z has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading at the time 
as Egg) does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Z.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  (trading at the time as Egg) does have to pay back  
to Mrs Z any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Z to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Daniel OShea 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1678078