K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the way shes been  treated in relation to her mortgage. 
Merligen Investments Limited  bought  the mortgage  debt from the original lender in 2016.  
Whilst Mrs Ms complaint is about the specific actions of the previous lender, Merligen have 
accepted responsibility for this complaint as they took over the mortgage  debt. For simplicity, 
in this decision Ill refer to Merligen throughout.
background
Mrs M and her husband took out a mortgage  in 2005. In November  2013,  the previous  
lender repossessed the house  leaving a shortfall debt of around £27,000. Sadly Mrs Ms 
husband passed away shortly afterwards in 2014.  The shortfall debt was sold to Merligen in 
2016.
In 2017, Mrs M complained to the previous lender. Her complaint can be summarised by the 
following points:
she wasnt aware of the amount borrowed and she felt it was altered after shed 
signed the application; 
the lender  should have contacted her throughout the life of the mortgage, as she had 
no idea about  the position of the account; 
the court hearings shouldnt have gone ahead without her, and she wasnt  given the 
opportunity to defend herself;
the lender  failed  to notice a fake letter of employment that was forged by her late 
husband;
the business accepted  £55,000  for the sale of the property which  was worth £80,000, 
leaving her with a shortfall debt to pay; and
overall, the lender failed in their duty of care to ensure all borrowers were aware of 
what was going on with the mortgage, as she had no idea what  had happened until 
her late husband  had passed away.
The previous  lender  forwarded Mrs Ms complaint to Merligen. Merligen decided to write  off 
the shortfall debt of around £27,000  given Mrs Ms particular circumstances. Mrs M brought 
her complaint to our service. She wanted  compensation  for the trouble and upset shed 
experienced, as she was left homeless with her two children. She also wanted her credit file 
amended.
Our investigator looked into things, and whilst she empathised with Mrs Ms position, she 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She didnt  dispute Mrs M wasnt  aware of the situation with the 
mortgage, but she wasnt persuaded this was because of anything the lender had done 
wrong. She agreed  Merligens  offer to write  off the shortfall debt was fair.
Mrs M disagreed so the complaints been  passed  to me to issue a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 July 2019. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN11534992Having considered everything  thats  happened, I empathise with Mrs Ms situation and what 
shes been through. I can see shes  been through an extremely difficult time, and Ive 
carefully thought  about everything shes told us. But I do want  to explain that in this decision, 
I can only look at the actions of Merligen and the previous lender  and whether theyve 
treated Mrs M fairly when dealing with her mortgage. I also wont be considering  any matters 
that have already been decided by the courts. Ill address each of Mrs Ms complaint points 
in turn.
she wasnt aware of the amount borrowed
In 2005, Mrs M and her late husband  re-mortgaged, which was arranged through a broker.  
Looking at the application  the money was used to pay off an existing mortgage, as well as 
some unsecured debts  and for some  home  improvements. Mrs M and her late husband 
borrowed just over £69,000. 
Ive seen a copy  of the application form, which was signed by both Mrs M and her late 
husband. Mrs M has said that the loan amount was filled in after shed signed  it, and she 
wasnt aware how much they had borrowed. Having listened to Mrs Ms testimony  I 
appreciate this may have been  the case. But this mortgage wasnt arranged  with the lender 
directly, it was dealt with by a broker. So the lender had no involvement in the application 
other than to consider the information that had been presented to it in order to make the 
decision whether  to lend or not. So if Mrs M is unhappy with how the application  was carried 
out, she would need to direct these concerns to the broker that sold the mortgage. 
the lender should have contacted her about the position of the mortgage
I understand from what Mrs M has told us, that her husband handled their financial affairs,  
and in particular  the mortgage. She said she wasnt aware of how bad their situation was, 
and the fact they were so behind with their payments. Looking at all the information  we have, 
Im persuaded this was likely to be the case.
The mortgage started to fall into arrears  in 2006,  and apart  from clearing these for a short  
period in 2007, the mortgage  remained  in arrears until the house was repossessed in 2013.  
The matter  went to court a few times  over the years   and I can see that it was only Mrs Ms 
late husband that attended any of these hearings. As I explained above, its not appropriate 
for me to comment on anything that happened in these court hearings, or any decisions the 
court made. But I have  considered how the lender handled matters  before proceeding to 
take the matter  to court.
Unfortunately, the contact  notes between the lender  and the borrowers are no longer  
available. However,  I have seen the notes from field agent visits, letters sent by the lender, 
and notes from the court hearings.  I can see the lender wrote to Mrs M and her late husband 
regularly about  the mortgage. So whilst  I appreciate Mrs M says her late husband hid these 
letters from her and didnt  tell her about  them, I cant say the lender was responsible for her 
not receiving this information in the post. The letters were  addressed  to both parties, and 
sent to the mortgaged address. 
Ive also seen that in 2009, Mrs M and her late husband applied  for a temporary switch to 
interest-only mortgage payments when their income  had reduced. This was approved by the 
lender, and an agreement was signed  by both Mrs M and her late husband. So I think it was 
Ref: DRN11534993reasonable for the lender to assume both parties  were aware of the position of the mortgage 
at that point.
However, in January 2013, a field agent  visited the property to discuss the mortgage  arrears. 
The notes show that Mrs M spoke to them and told them she would ask her husband to call 
them. When  the field agent spoke to Mrs Ms husband, he confirmed  that Mrs M didnt know  
about the arrears  on the mortgage. He also said theyd applied  for support from the 
Department of Work  and Pensions and he would keep the lender  informed.  
A field agent visited again in September 2013, when  Mrs Ms husband told them hed been 
unwell and attempted suicide earlier in the year. The notes say that they have  no telephone 
numbers for Mrs M. While the lender didnt know about Mr Ms situation, I think  it was 
reasonable for them to talk mainly to him  its common for a joint mortgage  to be managed 
in practice by one of the parties, and that wasnt  on its own enough to give the lender cause 
for concern. However, once Mr M had told the field agent about his problems, the lender  
knew about them  and I do think that from then on the lender  could  have made more effort 
to engage with Mrs M as well. However, I dont think that this would, ultimately,  have made 
any difference, because  I dont think  Mrs M was in a position  to have sorted out the 
problems which had built up with the mortgage  by then.
Mrs M has said that had she known about the position of the mortgage, she could have  
made the payments herself and ultimately, avoided  repossession.  Ive thought about this 
carefully, but looking at her circumstances at the time, Im not persuaded this would have 
been the case. 
Ive seen information about Mrs Ms and her late husbands income  and expenditure, and in 
2013, Mrs M was earning around £500 per month. The mortgage  payments at the time were 
around £340 per month, with an arrears  balance of over £17,000, which  she also would have 
had to contribute towards in order to avoid further  legal action and repossession.  She also 
had two young children to support,  as well as another secured debt and bills to pay. So 
considering her overall circumstances,  Im not persuaded she would  have been  in a position  
to manage the mortgage on her own if shed known  what had happened to the account. 
Whilst I understand the lender had no telephone  number for Mrs M at the time, I do think 
they could have done more to reach out to her once they were  aware  of the circumstances. 
And whilst Im not persuaded this would have resulted in a different outcome, I still think  
Mrs M should  be compensated for this. However,  Im satisfied that Merligens offer to write  
off the shortfall  debt of over £27,000 compensates Mrs M sufficiently for whats  happened.
the court hearings shouldnt have gone ahead without her, and she wasnt  given the 
opportunity to defend herself
Mrs M is understandably frustrated that she wasnt able to attend the court  hearings  as she 
wasnt aware of them.  But it was the courts  decision to proceed without all parties  to the 
mortgage present,  and its not appropriate for me to comment on this decision. Im not 
satisfied the lender are at fault for the fact the court hearings went  ahead  without Mrs M.
the lender failed to notice a fake letter of employment that was forged by her late husband
Mrs M has expressed concerns about  the fact the lender  accepted a letter from her late 
husband to show  hed got a new job. She feels the letter was fraudulent  and the lender 
should have checked this. Its not this services  role to investigate whether or not this letter  
Ref: DRN11534994was fraudulent. But, looking at everything thats happened with this mortgage and the 
concessions made  by the lender, Im not persuaded things would have happened differently 
whether they accepted that the letter was legitimate or not.
In 2013, Mrs Ms late husband  sent the lender a letter to show  he was starting  a new job 
later that year. However, following this, the mortgage position still didnt improve and the 
house was repossessed in November that year.  I dont find the letter  had a significant 
bearing on the lenders  decision  to repossess the house, and so Im not persuaded its 
particularly relevant whether the lender accepted it or not. 
the business accepted  £55,000 for the property  which was worth £80,000, leaving her with a 
shortfall debt to pay
Whilst Merligen have  now agreed  to write off the shortfall debt left by the sale of the house, 
Ive still looked  into the circumstances surrounding  the sale and how this was handled by the 
lender.
In 2013, the house was valued  at £46,000  by an independent surveyor. The house was sold 
two months later for £56,000.  So whilst I appreciate the house  was valued higher when 
Mrs M took out the mortgage in 2005,  the lender actually agreed a sale that was £10,000 
higher than the market value at the time. So considering  this, Im not persuaded the lender 
accepted an unreasonably low price for the property.  
In any case, the shortfall debt has now been written off with nothing  left for Mrs M to pay, so 
regardless of the sale price, shes in no worse  financial position than if the house was 
actually sold for £80,000.
Overall, Mrs M had been left in a very difficult and unfortunate  position. But considering all 
the evidence and the actions of the lender, Im not persuaded theyre responsible for the 
problems Mrs M has faced. So whilst I accept this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for, I 
dont uphold this complaint, and wont be asking Merligen to compensate  Mrs M any further 
than they already have.
responses to my provisional  decision
Merligen didnt have  anything further to add to my provisional decision.
Mrs M responded explaining  why she disagreed. In summary she said:
she wasnt aware of the temporary  switch to interest-only in 2009, and provided 
evidence of her signature;
once the field agent knew that she was unaware of the mortgage arrears, they should 
have insisted they speak to her;
in 2011, her late husband  received £20,000 from a tribunal  case  which she was 
unaware of at the time. If shed  known about the mortgage position then she could  
have used this money  to help clear the arrears;
the income and expenditure  document completed in 2012  is inaccurate. If the lender 
had spoken to her at the time she could have proved she could have afforded the 
mortgage herself, with support  where necessary;
she feels the fraudulent employment  letter does bear a significance  on the fact the 
house was repossessed, and if the lender had noticed this things could have been 
different;
Ref: DRN11534995she disputes the valuations done on the property in 2013.
Overall, she still feels that things could have ended  up differently if the lender  had engaged  
with her about the position of the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ms strength of feelings  about this complaint,  particularly given what  shes 
been through. Ive carefully listened to everything  shes said in response to my provisional  
decision, but unfortunately her comments have  not changed my decision. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mrs M has said she wasnt aware of the temporary switch to interest-only  in 
2009. Whilst Im grateful  for Mrs M sending in evidence to suggest  the signature  on the form 
may not be hers, we are not handwriting experts.  Im not satisfied this form in itself should  
have alerted the lender  to the fact that Mrs M was unaware of the mortgage position.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I thought it was reasonable the lender hadnt 
attempted to contact  Mrs M until her late husband had been open  about their circumstances 
in 2013. So Im also not persuaded that Mrs M would have been aware of her late husbands 
tribunal payment in time for this to have helped. As looking at the bank statements shes 
provided, this money had been spent by November 2011, and the account  moved  back  into 
its overdraft.
Whilst Ive agreed with Mrs M that more could have been done in 2013, Im still not 
persuaded this would have made  a difference. This is because of the scale  of the problem at 
that point, and the level of arrears that Mrs M would have needed to clear to stop possession 
proceedings from going ahead. 
Mrs M has said she could have  increased her hours or got a second  job to help with the 
mortgage payments  had she known about the arrears. Whilst I appreciate this may have 
been the case, Im still not satisfied  this would have been sufficient  to clear over £17,000  of 
arrears on top of the contractual monthly payments within  a reasonable amount of time. 
Particularly if she wouldve been  running the house and supporting  the children on her own 
finances. So Im still persuaded the mortgage  position had deteriorated to a point that Mrs M 
would have struggled to recover on her own.  And so Im not satisfied that Merligen need  to 
compensate Mrs M any further  for the fact that the lender took legal action when they did.
I understand why Mrs M feels  the letter of employment from her late husbands employer 
made a difference to things here, but Im afraid I dont  agree. Im still satisfied the lender 
would have taken  the same  course  of action  here whether  the letter was fraudulent or not  
and I have nothing  further to add to my provisional  findings in that respect.
Mrs M has questioned the valuation carried out by the surveyor  in 2013. She still believes  
the house was undervalued. As I explained  in my provisional decision, Mrs M has already 
been put in the position  she would have  been in if the house was sold for the same amount  
as the mortgage debt,  as Merligen have written  off the shortfall from the sale. So even if the 
lender accepted an offer that Mrs M feels is under the value of the house,  I wouldnt  be 
asking Merligen to do anything differently to what theyve already done to put things right.
Ref: DRN11534996Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about  the situation  Mrs M has found herself in, Im still not 
satisfied this is as a result of the lenders actions.  
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1153499