K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Ms B (the complainants) say Coutts  & Company (Coutts) applied charges, which 
were not agreed, to a Bond Portfolio  (the portfolio) it managed for them on a discretionary 
basis since 1998. Mr P leads the complaint.
background
Mr P says the management  charge  for the portfolio  at the outset was 0.5% per year, then it 
was increased by agreement to 0.6%  per year and then, by 2016, to 0.6% (plus VAT) per 
year. In 2018,  he says he learnt  that what was supposed to be a plain and relatively  
straightforward portfolio  with direct investments had been managed otherwise; additional 
charges, which  had not been agreed, had been applied  to the portfolio seemingly because it 
had been managed on the basis of sub funds which created the additional  charges. 
Mr P notes that Coutts sent some  correspondence  to him, from around 2013  onwards, which  
referred to changes in charges but he asserts that on each relevant occasion he telephoned 
Coutts (and sometimes sent emails)  to challenge such changes and was assured that the 
management charge  of 0.6% per year continued,  despite the written  notices about changes.  
In this respect, he highlighted an erroneous charge that had been  applied in the course of 
this correspondence  which  was subsequently corrected  by Coutts. He also asserts  that the 
nature of the assurances he received was that 0.6%  per year was the overall  charge that 
applied to the portfolio.
Coutts disputes the complaint. In the main,  its position  is that where the 0.6%  per year 
charge was applied it was done  on agreement but where a different charge was applied it 
was done subsequent to notice to the complainants  about the relevant change;  it disputes  
verbally reassuring them of continuation  of the 0.6% per year arrangement where written 
notice (including  periodic fee tariff documents) had been issued to them  to state otherwise; it 
says the notices and/or tariff documents clarified,  especially  after the regulatory changes in 
the administration and disclosure of fees in 2013,  that its management charge was separate  
and distinct from any other charge associated with the portfolio and its underlying 
investments (including  charges for ongoing  advice and for the underlying products/funds); it 
has referred to specific correspondence  in 2013, 2014, 2015  and 2017  as evidence  of this.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She noted  Mr Ps dispute with the use of sub funds in the portfolio but considered  
that issue beyond  the scope of the complaint  about charges  that had been submitted. 
She mentioned the lack of evidence  of Coutts  committing to apply the 0.6%  arrangement 
overall to the portfolio and the existence of evidence showing that notices were  given  to the 
complainants about this arrangement applying only to management of the portfolio and 
about other fees for the underlying products  and for ongoing advice  the latter two 
appearing to have  had the effect  of the higher  overall  charge  that the complainants  have 
challenged.
Mr P disagreed with this outcome.  In the main,  he considered that questions  he had 
presented about  hidden  charges from investments in the sub funds, about how those 
investments were not in the best interests  of the portfolio and about any benefits Coutts 
derived from those investments, had not been addressed and should  be addressed; and that 
Coutts changes to the management charge were  inconsistent  with the overall  charge  
arrangement that was agreed. 
Ref: DRN19642432The investigator retained her view.  She repeated that she had addressed the charges  issue 
that was presented in the complaint and she noted  the absence  of evidence of hidden 
charges, given that the charges relevant to the portfolio were all featured  in the notices 
Coutts sent. The matter was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions expressed  by the investigator for broadly the same reasons.
In the context of Coutts discretionary management  of the portfolio, any concern(s) held by 
the complainants about how its discretion was exercise  including with regards to its 
selection and/or use of sub funds, whether (or not) that was done  in their best interests and 
whether (or not) Coutts benefitted directly from using such  sub funds  amounts to a distinct 
complaint. Such a complaint  does not appear to have been  referred  to this service and does 
not appear to have  been presented to Coutts for its response.
As a discretionary portfolio manager, Coutts  would have had the freedom  granted  by the 
complainants  to manage the portfolio on the basis of any agreed mandate or model, with 
due care and skill and in the best interests  of the complainants. I do not suggest  that none  of 
these obligations  existed. However,  if the complainants allege that Coutts did not discharge  
any of these obligations and, as a result, their problem(s)  with the charges arose,  that is not 
the complaint  that has been  referred to us. The complaint,  in straightforward terms, alleges 
that Coutts breached an agreed charges arrangement  to apply an overall charge of 0.6% per 
year to the portfolio.
I accept Mr Ps evidence of him closely monitoring the charges applied to the portfolio over 
the years. However, evidence that Coutts has referred to  from 2013 onwards  showing 
the notices issued to the complainants about  changes in charges and in fee tariffs  cannot 
reasonably be ignored and the same applies to the implication that Coutts was transparent 
about the relevant charges. 
I accept that it is possible  Mr P had telephone conversations with Coutts in response to 
some of this correspondence.  However, where he says he was reassured about continuation 
of the 0.6% per year arrangement as an overall  charge, there  is no documentary evidence  to 
show that Coutts ever offered or undertook such an arrangement as an overall  charge. 
Coutts denies giving him such an impression or assurance. In the context of the disclosed 
charges information,  I also do not consider that the charges relevant to the portfolio were 
hidden.
As identified  by the investigator, the problem appears to have been  that Mr P was working 
on the belief of an overall charge arrangement whereas Coutts  regarded  the management 
charge as separate from others and relied  reasonably, I consider  on the notices issued 
to the complainants  to expect that they understood the same. I appreciate  that Mr P argues 
the opposite and says he was assured in telephone  conversations  that the notices were 
irrelevant but, in the absence of evidence to show this and in the presence of Coutts  dispute  
of this, it cannot be safely concluded that this was the case.   
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that the charges  relevant to the portfolio were not limited 
to the management charge; other charges, like those associated with the underlying funds, 
were also relevant to the portfolio; the complainants were repeatedly  made aware of this 
Ref: DRN19642433over the featured years; there  is not sufficient evidence to show  that an alternative charges 
arrangement was agreed between the parties or that the notices and fee tariffs it issued 
were irrelevant to their portfolio; the charges  that are in dispute  appear to be mainly those 
beyond the management charge and, for the reasons summarised above and addressed  by 
the investigator, I am not persuaded that they were erroneous.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ps and Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1964243