K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
I understand Mrs B applied for a mortgage with the Halifax in 1996 and bought a PPI policy  
at around the same  time.
Mrs B says she had good employee benefits  and is unlikely to have needed to claim  on the 
policy. So she says Halifax shouldnt have recommended it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold  it. Mrs B disagrees  and so her 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mrs B she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement 
to it. Halifax hasnt been able to give us any paperwork  from the time of the sale. But this 
isnt unusual for a sale that took place  over 20 years ago, and businesses  arent  required to 
keep records indefinitely.  And Mrs Bs recollections  of the sale arent detailed. Because  of 
this lack of information, I dont have enough to say its likely Halifax didnt give Mrs B a 
choice in taking  out the PPI or that she didnt agree to it, so I cant uphold her complaint for 
either of these reasons.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B, so it needed to make  sure the PPI was right 
for her. Based on what she says of her circumstances  at the time and the policy details Ive 
seen, I think that it was. For example, it doesnt seem Mrs B was affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI  so there was nothing to stop her from claiming  the full 
policy benefit if shed  needed to. 
Mrs B says she got good sick pay  she says six months full pay  if shed been  off work 
because of sickness or an accident. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for 
each successful accident, sickness or unemployment  claim Mrs B made. This was 
potentially longer than her full sick pay lasted for. And it wouldve paid out in addition  to her 
sick pay  and also if she lost her job. So, especially bearing in mind  her mortgage was a 
significant and long-term financial commitment secured on her home  which was at risk if 
she fell behind with her mortgage  repayments   I think  the PPI still gave Mrs B a useful  
benefit.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, as Ive said, I havent  seen enough to make me think Mrs B didnt  agree  
to it or know  she had a choice about it. And I think it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think clearer information 
about the PPI wouldve put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN14076402my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1407640