K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy EUI Limited  had the incorrect vehicle registration  number on his motor
insurance policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. I explained EUI didnt do anything  
wrong in relying  on the information  Mr J gave them about the incorrect vehicle registration 
number when he called them to accept one of the insurance quotes he received online. 
I also explained that I couldnt  see any evidence  to show me Mr J contacted EUI once he 
received the motor certificate and policy schedule  with the incorrect  vehicle registration  
number. And that there was no evidence to show me Mr J didnt receive these  documents.
I invited Mr J and EUI to let me have any final submissions they wanted me to
consider by 28 August 2019,  before I made my final decision. However,  neither party
responded.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision or made any further comments  for me to 
consider. Because of this, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16309172copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr J is unhappy EUI Limited had the incorrect vehicle registration number on his motor
insurance policy.
background
Last year,  Mr J applied for his motor insurance  policy online. Following the initial application,
Mr J then phoned  EUI on a different day to accept the quote provided  online.
In March 2019, Mr J says he was contacted  by a third party company who let him know his
car wasnt insured. Mr J says he called  EUI when finding out he wasnt insured and let them
know the vehicle registration  number  was incorrect. Mr J says this error was EUIs fault.
EUI say they amended the relevant car details  and re-sent Mr J his updated policy
documents shortly after he told them the correct car details. EUI say it wasnt their fault they
had the incorrect car details  as they relied  on the details Mr J included on his online
application.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js concerns.  He said EUI hadnt acted unreasonably as they
relied on the information from Mr Js online application. The investigator also said it was
Mr Js responsibility to check the information was correct on the insurance documents EUI
sent following the telephone conversation. Mr J disagreed so the case has been passed to
me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
EUI have sent me a copy of the information Mr J included  in the application he completed
online through an aggregator website, which  Ive carefully  looked  at. I can see on each of the
2 enquiries Mr J made where he was given  different  quotes, the correct make and vehicle
registration number  was included.
EUI say Mr J called them  on a different day to accept one of the quotes he received online
through the aggregator  website. They say their advisor  explained they would check some
details of the quote and also confirmed with Mr J that the quote would be accepted based on
the information entered online being correct. EUI have sent me a copy  of this call which Ive
listened to.
During this call, the advisor checks the make of the car and then asks Mr J for the vehicle
registration number. At this point, Mr J provides the incorrect vehicle  registration  number 
the last letter of the vehicle  registration number was wrong. Then the advisor relays  the
vehicle registration  number back to Mr J and asks if hes heard  it correctly which Mr J
confirmed he had. After this, EUI take payment details from Mr J and confirm  the start date
of his policy.  So whilst  Mr J may have started  his application online,  Im satisfied EUI relied
on the information Mr J told them during this phone call. And I dont think it was
unreasonable for them  to do so.
EUI have also sent us a copy  of the motor certificate and policy schedule  that they say would
have been sent to Mr J following the call with their advisor. I can see both documents  include
the incorrect  vehicle registration number.  They  both also advise  Mr J to call EUI if any of the
details on both documents were  incorrect.  But I cant see any evidence  to show me Mr J did
contact them once receiving the documents with the incorrect vehicle  registration number.
Ref: DRN16309173And I havent seen anything that makes  me think Mr J didnt receive  these documents. So
based on this, Im satisfied EUI havent done anything wrong.
I can appreciate  Mr Js upset in finding out his car wasnt insured for a number of months. I
think it may have been helpful if the advisor had told Mr J at during the phone  call that the
vehicle registration  number hed told them  was different to what  he included on the online
application. But I dont  think the fact that EUIs advisor  didnt do this means they need to
compensate Mr J. As Ive explained, I dont think it was unreasonable for EUI to rely on the
information Mr J gave  to them during the phone call where he accepted one of the online
quotes.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Ref: DRN1630917