K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc sent agents  to her home due to her mortgage  
arrears, despite her notification that she wouldnt engage with them.  She wants a detailed 
breakdown of her debt and matters put right.
background
Mrs G had an interest only secured  loan with Santander, which is secured over her home  
and overdue for payment  in full. She had previously complained to this service and 
Santander about the existence of the loan, but without success as the issue  was outside the 
jurisdiction of this service. Neither  party took the matter to court. Mrs G said that she felt 
Santander wasnt acting  in good faith and had bombarded her with calls and letters  in an 
attempt to bully her. 
In August  2018,  Santander wrote to Mrs G and said it would send an agent  to talk to her. 
Mrs G wrote back and said that she wouldnt engage, but invited Santander  to make her an 
offer to settle the dispute. Mrs G said an agent  attempted to arrange  an appointment to see 
her and then visited her property several  times, but she wasnt at home. Mrs G felt this was 
harassment and a criminal offence. Santander  sent Mrs G a statement setting out how much 
it said was due, which with Mrs G disagreed. She said Santander refused to give her an 
itemised statement  and wanted this service  to audit any statement provided.
Mrs G complained to Santander.  It paid £25 compensation for not replying to an earlier  letter 
from Mrs G and sent her a statement of what was owed. But it denied taking steps to ask 
Mrs G to pay the debt and find out what  was affordable for her was harassment. Santander 
also said that it did need to talk to Mrs G and find about her current circumstances, but was 
happy to deal with anyone  authorised to act on her behalf.
Mrs G complained to us. The investigator  didnt uphold the complaint. He said that this 
service couldnt look at how the loan came into existence and it was fair for Santander to 
send agents as Mrs G didnt want to discuss the matter  on the phone and hadnt appointed 
anyone else to act on her behalf as invited. The investigator thought  if Mrs G had engaged 
with the agents,  it wouldve helped the situation. He noted Santander had sent statements to 
Mrs G and a breakdown which this service  forwarded to her. The investigator  said this 
service didnt audit  accounts  and said Santander  was trying to avoid taking  Mrs G to court, 
and was willing to explore  options  such as a lifetime  mortgage.
Mrs G disagreed. She remained of the view of the amount  claimed by Santander was 
incorrect and that she should only have to deal with Santander in writing. The investigator 
didnt change his view and explained  why the balance claimed by Santander appeared to be 
correct. Mrs G still disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12491042Its worth  noting that it isnt my role to decide  the underlying dispute about whether Mrs G is 
subject to the secured loan. Its outside the jurisdiction of this service and I cant  interfere 
with a decision of another  ombudsman. But I dont think this issue  is part of the complaint  
brought to this service anyway. As theres  no court judgment to the contrary,  I will deal with 
the complaint  on the basis that the loan is legally enforceable against Mrs G.
Its clear from the evidence available to me that Mrs G wants  to negotiate  a settlement, but it 
isnt necessarily unfair or unreasonable  for a lender  to want payment in full, particularly if 
theres equity in a property to pay the debt.  Lenders must treat consumers in financial 
difficulties fairly, but it appears Mrs G fundamentally doesnt accept shes liable for the debt, 
which is different to being in financial difficulty.  Mrs G is clear that she isnt in financial 
difficulty. 
Mrs G wants Santander  to make  her an offer, which isnt something this service  could or 
would require. She has pointed out this service has commented that wed like the parties  to 
work together to resolve the dispute;  this is correct, but it doesnt require Santander to make  
Mrs G an offer. The possible  options  it has suggested could be the solution to this dispute.
Mrs G hasnt paid anything since 2015  or put forward an acceptable  offer. But interest on the 
debt is increasing  and its fair and reasonable for Santander to try to move matters forward. 
It warned Mrs G an agent was coming  and I note that she wasnt home when they visited.  
Had a meeting been possible, it wouldve enabled  Santander to find out what  Mrs G could 
afford to pay and potentially lead to a deal. And the agents stopped visiting  once it became 
clear Mrs G wouldnt engage. I dont  think Santander has harassed  Mrs G as while  she 
doesnt accept  the validity of the debt, shes bound by its terms unless a court  says 
otherwise.
And I note Santander hasnt issued legal proceedings to possess the property due to 
Mrs Gs personal  circumstances.  I think this reflects the difficult  situation  and that Santander 
is trying  to act fairly and reasonably,  despite the debt being over four years overdue. That 
said, I also note that Santander  does keep  asking Mrs G to call it, despite being  told she has 
hearing difficulties.  But this only makes the decision to send an agent  even more reasonable 
as its often necessary  to have a discussion with a customer to agree a way forward.  
Lenders are required to ensure that a deal agreed  with a customer is affordable.  Santander 
has suggested that Mrs G appoints someone  to act on her behalf, uses  the systems  it has in 
place for those with hearing difficulties, or that she contacts its Vulnerable team,  who can 
suggest options. It may be that Mrs G isnt willing to explore these options, but they remain  a 
possibility.
Mrs G has been provided  with statements and a breakdown of the debt, so I wont comment 
further. While this service doesnt audit  accounts, Im satisfied that the balance  appears to 
be correctly calculated and its up to Mrs G if she wants to instruct  a forensic accountant  to 
prove otherwise.
Ref: DRN12491043my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision before 
29 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1249104