K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Payzone UK Limited  did not provide their business with the 
wireless card payment  terminal  it agreed  to.
background
Mrs P signed an agreement with Payzone to hire a counter top card payment terminal  on 13 
April 2018. Mr P says that the representative visited again to change this to a wireless  one. 
But Payzone says it had no record of this. It offered Mr and Mrs P a wireless terminal on the 
same terms  but they did not accept this.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-The hire agreement set out that a counter top terminal would be hired for £15 a 
month over a minimum period  of 12 months.
-There was no second agreement that superseded this.
-Payzone had offered to provide a wireless terminal on the same  terms and Mr and 
Mrs P declined  the offer.
-The agreement set out that there were fees if the agreement  was terminated before 
the end of the minimum hire period. And a non use charge  if the terminal was as a 
result not used. 
-If they wanted to end the agreement at the minimum term they needed to give two 
months notice of this.
Mr and Mrs P did not agree. They said we needed to speak to the representative who visited 
their property to make  a new agreement. They wanted to know where the new wireless 
terminal promised to them was. They  dispute  that Mrs P signed the first agreement and it is 
not their fault if the second one cant be found. They had to wait for a response from 
Payzone and they dont intend to pay anything further on this contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know exactly what the representative  said to either Mr or Mrs P about the agreement.  
Payzone has contacted the representative and he couldnt recall if he visited  their premises  
more than once.  Payzone  has explained that all its hire agreements  are opened and signed 
electronically. And any agreement that is opened  would create a record. There is no other 
record than that relating  to the agreement  on 13 April 2018. Ive no evidence to support that 
this was not electronically signed in line with its normal processes. And this was emailed to 
Mrs P. 
I am not persuaded, on balance, that Payzone made a mistake in supplying a counter top 
terminal in line with the agreement. I can see from its final response letter  that it says it first 
offered Mr and Mrs P a wireless terminal on the same terms on 5 June 2018. Mr and Mrs P 
were not happy  with that and spoke  with a member of staff again on 20 July 2018. They  
received an email saying  the best offer was that they could have  the wireless  terminal  at a 
reduced price equivalent to the countertop terminal and again  with three months free rental. 
Mr and Mrs P did not accept this as reasonable.
Ref: DRN18221282As I havent  found  Payzone has made  a mistake then any offer it has made is on a goodwill 
basis. It offered to provide them with a wireless  terminal on the same  terms and I think  that 
was reasonable  in the circumstances. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
The adjudicator has already set out the terms of the agreement now - and the termination 
fees due if it is cancelled early. Mr and Mrs P have to give two months notice  to end the 
agreement at the end of the minimum period  and as I understand it that would have been 
on 18 February 2019. For the avoidance  of doubt I am going  to make a finding that they 
have reasonably given this notice  by virtue of this complaint. It is absolutely  clear from what  
they say that they do not wish to continue  with this agreement. But Im afraid I find that they 
are fairly bound by the terms of it until the end of the minimum period.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Payzone UK Limited need 
do no more than it has offered to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1822128