K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the charge thats  been  made  by Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) 
Limited, trading  as Volkswagen Finance, for damage to a car at the end of her hire purchase 
agreement.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs P under  a hire purchase agreement  with Volkswagen 
Finance that she signed in November 2015. When the agreement  ended Volkswagen 
Finance arranged for the car to be collected  from Mrs P and inspected  by a third party.  But 
the collection and inspection was delayed by the third party and Mrs P says that she had to 
park the car on the road because there  was no room for it on her drive. Volkswagen Finance 
reimbursed Mrs P for the additional  insurance  premiums that she paid as a result of the 
delay. 
The car was collected and inspected  in January 2019 by the third party.  The inspection 
report identified a cracked bumper and Volkswagen Finance  charged  Mrs P £482.03 for that 
damage. She complained  to Volkswagen Finance  about the charge but wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She was satisfied  
that the charge had been applied fairly  because  the damage was outside the British Vehicle  
Rental and Leasing  Association guidelines  on fair wear and tear.
Mrs P has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
she told Volkswagen  Finance  about a small scratch in November 2018 but by the 
time that the car was collected the front bumper  was cracked;
shes not paying for damage to the car that she didnt do as the car was put in an 
unsafe location for a long amount of time due to issues  with Volkswagen  Finance not 
picking up the car when promised and numerous  failed  collections - which was very 
distressing for her; and
Volkswagen Finance  is relying  on a recording of a phone call but the introductory 
message says that recordings are for training purposes only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P signed the agreement and agreed  to be legally bound  by its terms. The agreement  
says:
 you must  keep the Vehicle in good repair and condition, commensurate with its 
age and mileage;  and
You will be responsible for any damage  to or deterioration of the Vehicle which  is in 
excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the Vehicle.
Mrs P said during a phone call about  ending the agreement that the cars bumper was 
damaged. There was then a delay in the car being collected from her which  will have been 
Ref: DRN15203662frustrating for her. Volkswagen Finance  reimbursed  her for the additional insurance 
premiums that she paid as a result of the delay.
Mrs P says that she parked the car on the road because there  wasnt  room for it on her drive  
and that the bumper was damaged when it was parked on the road. But I consider that 
Mrs P was responsible for keeping the car in good repair  and condition  until it was collected 
from her and it was her decision to park it on the road (which she has described as an 
unsafe location).
When the car was collected from Mrs P the bumper was damaged.  The inspection report  
includes a photo  of the bumper which clearly shows that it was cracked. Volkswagen  
Finance says that when the car was properly inspected significant further damage was 
identified  but its only charging  Mrs P for the damage to the bumper.
Mrs P says that Volkswagen Finance is relying  on a recording of a phone call but the 
introductory message  says that recordings are for training purposes only. In reaching my 
decision Ive considered the written  evidence that both parties have submitted  including 
Volkswagen Finances and Mrs Ps comments about that call. I havent  listened to that call. 
On the basis of that evidence, I consider it to be more likely  than not that the bumper was 
damaged at the time of that call and that there  was damage to the bumper (which was more 
than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear) when the car was collected  
from Mrs P. 
I consider that its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Volkswagen Finance to 
charge Mrs P for the damage to the bumper. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to reduce (or waive)  the charge that its made  for that damage  - or to take 
any other action in response  to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1520366