K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She says she should have 
been allowed  to reject the car.
background
Mrs B entered into a HPA with Startline on 27 April 2018 to acquire a car. She says the car 
was released to her on 30 April.  She noticed  issues with the car within the first two weeks 
and was told to bring  it to the dealer. She was then told to speak to Startline about the 
possibility of a replacement so she called Startline  on 17 May and sent an email on 18 May.
The car was repaired  and Mrs B says she was told to collect it. Mrs B says she explained 
she no longer wanted  the car as she had lost faith in it but felt that she had no choice but to 
collect it. After  collecting  the car Mrs B says it still displayed the same issues. She took it for 
further investigation and the issues were confirmed. Mrs B made  it clear  she no longer 
wanted the car.
On 6 July, Mrs B says she was told her complaint would be upheld  and that she could ask 
for a replacement car or refund. She says she asked for a refund and was told this would be 
arranged within two weeks but this didnt happen.  The car was collected on 13 July.
Mrs B says that she has been paying  for a car she hasnt  had use of and has been incurring 
costs of public transport and taxis to make her journeys.
Startline says that following issues with the car, the dealer carried out repairs  and that Mrs B 
accepted these. The dealer says that Mrs B didnt say she wanted to reject  the car at this 
stage. Startline says Mrs B then provided evidence that the car was still experiencing issues  
with the gear box and so it was arranged that the car would be returned  to the dealer. At this 
point Mrs B said she no longer wanted  the car. It says the car was collected in July 2018 and 
an independent inspection took place  in August. It says no faults  were  found and so the 
dealer contacted Mrs B to collect the car.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She was satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. She recommend that Startline  accept  the rejection of the car, 
end the agreement with nothing further  owing, refund the deposit  and all payments made  
and pay £250  compensation  for distress  and inconvenience caused.
Mrs B accepted the view and Startline also initially accepted it. However,  the dealer then 
reiterated its previous  comments that Mrs B had accepted the repairs in May 2018 and that 
further faults were  not found. It noted that an inspection had taken  place on the car and this 
had found no faults. Based on this it was requested  the case be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. Mrs B then requested a higher compensation amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B entered into a HPA to acquire a used  car. Under the regulations,  Startline can be held 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory  quality takes 
Ref: DRN18798942into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. At the time of acquisition  the car 
was around three years  old and had a mileage  of 18,870.
Mrs B experienced issues shortly  after acquisition and she raised these with the dealer on 
9 May. The car was taken to the dealer on 17 May and repairs were  carried  out. The dealer  
has said that the clutch, release bearing  and flywheel were  replaced. Given  the repairs  that 
were required  a couple of weeks after acquisition it is clear that at the point of supply the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mrs B was contacted about collecting the car and she explained she didnt want  to do this. 
She contacted Startline  and explained her concerns.  I have listened to the call and on this 
she is told she no longer  has the right to reject the car because  repairs  have taken place. 
She is told she will need to collect the car and that if issues return she should get back in 
touch.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  consumers  have a short term right to reject if the 
goods are found  to not be of satisfactory  quality within the first 30 days. In this case  Mrs B 
had the right to reject  given the issues with her car. However, the dealer says she didnt say 
in May she wished to reject the car and instead  that she accepted repairs.  
In this case, I cannot say exactly what discussion took place with the dealer when Mrs B first 
reported the issues with the car. However  based on the evidence I have seen, including an 
email sent on 18 May asking about  how to get a different  car (a day after repairs were  
started) and her subsequent conversations with Startline I accept she made it clear she no 
longer wanted  the car.  
Mrs B didnt use the expression rejection in her dealings with Startline (and the dealer). But 
I wouldnt necessarily expect her to. It comes from the legal protection  shes entitled  to  and 
people often dont  know the exact words/expressions that apply. But Im satisfied Mrs B was 
clear she no longer wanted  the car, within the 30 day period. And thats  the key test here.
Mrs B collected the car as she was told she needed to do this. She then experienced further 
issues and took the car for further investigation. A garage report dated 14 June 2018  records  
essential maintenance required  to the clutch / gearbox.  As this is the repair  that the dealer 
undertook, this report suggests  the repair was unsuccessful. 
The car was collected from Mrs B in July 2018 and that the dealer reported that the repairs  
were successful and no fault codes were found. This was then confirmed by an independent 
inspection report.  
My role is to consider each case based  on the individual circumstances. I take the relevant 
regulations into account  but my decision is based on what  I consider fair and reasonable. In 
this case, Mrs B acquired a car which experienced major faults within the first few days.  She 
raised her concerns  and there is nothing to show she authorised  the repairs. She then 
collected the car only after being  told she had to do this and then had a further  report  
showing issues. Therefore, while there  is now a dispute over what issues  are present with 
the car, I understand  why Mrs B lost faith in the car when the first issues occurred and I think 
she did enough at that time to explain her wish to no longer have the car. Because of this I 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN18798943In order to resolve the compliant, Mrs Bs car should be collected at no cost to her and her 
agreement cancelled with nothing further  owing. Mrs Bs deposit should  also be refunded  
along with all payments she has made. 
Mrs B has experienced inconvenience and stress due to the issues with her car and her 
request to reject it not being accepted. Therefore I agree that she should be paid £250  
compensation in recognition of this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Startline Motor Finance Limited should:
1.accept the rejection  of the car;
2.end the agreement with nothing further  for Mrs B to pay;
3.arrange to have all details of the agreement removed from Mrs Bs credit file;
4.refund  all payments  made by Mrs B under  the agreement including  the deposit 
(recorded as £900 in the agreement) and pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per 
year from date of payment to date of settlement;  and
5.pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1879894