K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Miss M say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss S and Miss M bought the policy at a meeting in 1999 at the same time as taking a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Miss S and Miss M for accident, sickness and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. RBS says it cost £25.07 a month at 
the time for a benefit of £460  a month  to help Miss S and Miss M with their mortgage costs. 
Half the benefit would be paid for a successful claim on Miss S or Miss M. The whole benefit 
was payable if claims were made  on both Miss S and Miss M.
According to the mortgage application  form, Miss S had been  with her employer for around  
four years. Shes told us she was entitled to full sick pay and hasnt told us of having had any 
health issues. I think it likely she was also entitled to statutory redundancy pay. Miss M had 
been with her employer for two years, the form says. Shes said she was entitled to full sick 
pay and at least 12 months redundancy pay  and has told us of an ongoing health  issue 
which she says is treated with medicine  and for which  she says shes missed days of work.
RBS has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed  in 2004.
Miss S and Miss Ms representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on 
their behalf.  I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully.  
In summary,  Miss S and Miss Ms representative says:
RBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss S and Miss M wouldnt  
have taken the policy and the complaint  should be upheld.  Miss S and Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  RBS should have told Miss S and 
Miss M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means RBS should  have explained  the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss S and Miss M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Miss S and Miss M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on 
the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Ref: DRN10622632Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss S and Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss S and Miss Ms. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss S and Miss Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like RBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
Ref: DRN10622633other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss S and Miss Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so RBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss S and Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If RBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss S and Miss M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether RBS gave Miss S and Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Miss S and Miss Ms 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Miss S and Miss M 
and RBS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss S and Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Miss S and Miss M know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN10622634RBS had to make it clear  the PPI policy was optional. Miss S and Miss M have said they had 
no interest in PPI and have said it was just included as part of their mortgage package. I give 
what they say some  weight. But I also take into account that the sale took place more than 
fifteen years before Miss S and Miss M set out their recollections of it for us. So it wouldnt 
be surprising if they no longer vividly recalled everything that happened at that time. 
With this in mind, what Miss S and Miss M have said isnt, on its own,  enough to make me 
think RBS just included  the PPI without  giving them a choice about  it  and I havent seen 
anything else to make me think that RBS did this.
Also, to take the PPI, Miss S and Miss M completed  a PPI application form, separate from 
their mortgage application  form. They also completed and signed a separate  direct debit to 
pay for the PPI. I think the use of the separate form, and separate direct  debit, wouldve 
tended to indicate the PPI was something separate from the mortgage, with a separate cost, 
and so something about which Miss S and Miss M had a separate decision  to make.
The form offered a choice of unemployment cover only or cover that also included disability 
(accident and sickness)  cover. Nothing on the form says that the cover, or either of these 
cover options, had to be taken. On Miss S and Miss Ms form the option for combined cover  
(unemployment, accident and sickness)  was selected. The form offered cover  on a first 
applicant or joint basis.  On Miss S and Miss Ms form joint cover was chosen. 
The form also had spaces  Miss S and Miss M could  initial to turn down the PPI if they were  
able to meet  their mortgage payments in case of disability  or unemployment  or if they 
already had cover for this.
Miss S and Miss M havent said anything  to make me think  RBS pressured  them  into opting 
for the cover. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely Miss S and Miss M knew  
the policy was optional and agreed to take it without  undue  pressure.
did RBS provide advice?
RBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Taking what  Miss S and Miss M have said 
about this into account, Im persuaded RBS didnt provide advice.  This means  RBS didnt 
have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Miss S and Miss M. Instead, it had to give them 
sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable them  to make an informed  choice 
about whether  to take the policy,  including drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss S and Miss M were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is, it would help protect their mortgage payments 
if either Miss S or Miss M - or both - were unable to work  due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment) and of the approximate costs.
Ive reached this conclusion because the separate direct debit indicates Miss S and Miss M 
knew theyd pay for the PPI - and I think it unlikely they wouldve agreed to do so without  any 
sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might  be. Also,  the application form 
indicated the cover theyd chosen was for unemployment, accident and sickness  and 
Ref: DRN10622635indicated this was cover for their repayments.  It also stated the monthly benefit was £460 
and that cover was joint, meaning 50% of the benefit would apply to each borrower.
But the evidence  from the sale doesnt tell us whether RBS gave sufficient information about  
the actual cost of the PPI or about the exclusions or limitations before Miss S and Miss M 
agreed to take the PPI. So I dont think RBS gave Miss S and Miss M sufficient, appropriate 
and timely  information  to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take the 
policy, including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the PPI and significant  limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss S and Miss Ms representative has 
raised a number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when 
providing information in PPI sales.  It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Miss S and Miss Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss S and Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss S and Miss M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Miss S and Miss Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Miss S and Miss M have suggested. And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude RBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did RBSs shortcomings have on Miss S and Miss  M? To what extent did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found RBS didnt do all it shouldve done when it sold this policy to Miss S and Miss M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had RBS done  things properly. 
Miss S and Miss M say they wouldnt have taken it and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN10622636As this was a non-advised sale, Miss S and Miss M had to weigh  up in their own minds  the 
cost of the policy against the benefits offered  and the potential consequences  if they didnt 
insure against the risk of either one of them, or both, being  unable to work.
As Ive found above, Miss S and Miss M chose to take the policy. So I consider it reasonable 
to conclude they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what they thought they were getting 
is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant consideration 
when determining if Miss S and Miss M have  suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Miss S and Miss M were  given about the benefit was clear.  But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the cost and the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.
Although I consider it more likely than not Miss S and Miss M knew they would  have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear RBS told them the exact premium at the point 
they applied. Having said that, I dont  think it likely  Miss S and Miss M wouldve taken the 
PPI without some idea of the approximate cost. Also, if, when they started paying for the PPI 
or were notified of the cost,  this had been significantly at odds with what  theyd expected  at 
the sale, its possible they mightve raised  this with RBS or reconsidered their decision rather 
than continuing  to pay for the cover for a number  of years. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss S and Miss M wouldve  found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss S and Miss M thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims arising wholly or in part from any health  issue they knew or 
should reasonably have known  about at the policy start,  or for which they received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor in the 12 months  before the policy start, 
and which recurred within the first 12 months  of the policy;
The policy would limit, and in some situations  exclude, unemployment cover if Miss S or 
Miss M werent  permanent  employees;
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  Miss S or Miss M had to be prevented from doing her 
own job or any other job she was qualified to do by her experience,  education or training;
The policy excluded the first 60 days of any unemployment or disability and after that 
paid its benefit  up to 12 months, rather than the remaining  term of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss S and Miss M pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the 
policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss S and Miss M from 
taking the policy.  
But the evidence  about Miss S and Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Ref: DRN10622637Miss S and Miss M couldnt have  claimed  for work  absences Miss M had if they were  related 
to her ongoing health issue.  I accept this wouldve been a consideration for them and 
wouldve affected the extent to which they could rely on the policy  to protect  them. But they 
werent caught by any of the other significant exclusions  they were both in permanent 
employment, for example, and Miss S didnt have  any health issues  so wont  have been  
affected by policy exclusions for existing health  issues. Also, they wouldve still been  able to 
claim for health-related  work absences Miss M suffered if these  werent related to her 
existing condition. So, for example, absences related to back  pain or mental  health  issues  
are ones Miss S and Miss M could likely  still claim for, amongst others. I take into account 
also whats been said about Miss M taking medication for the condition, to control  it, and the 
absence of anything  to suggest she had suffered  long work absences  from it before the sale.
Taking everything into account,  including all Miss S and Miss M have said about this during 
this complaint, while some claims on Miss M wouldve  been  excluded as discussed above, 
taking into account  what was still covered  and the fact this cover  related to their mortgage  - 
on balance, I think Miss S and Miss M still had some  good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss S and Miss M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Miss S and Miss M had known  they could only claim  for disability  if Miss S or Miss M were  
prevented from doing her own job or any other job her experience, education or training 
qualified her to do, it might have played  into their thinking about  what  to do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  on balance  I think  Miss S and Miss M 
would still have been interested in taking the cover, given their circumstances. 
RBS may not have  told Miss S and Miss M the first 60 days of an unemployment  or disability 
wasnt covered and claims would be limited  to 12 months. This may have differed from what 
they expected and mightve hoped for. But given their lengths  of service I think it unlikely 
both their redundancy and sick pay entitlements were worth  as much as 12 months full pay  
and the PPI would pay on top of work benefits  anyway. In those circumstances,  I consider  it 
likely Miss S and Miss M wouldve  still thought  a benefit paid for up to 12 months to help with 
mortgage costs  would benefit them and help should  Miss S or Miss M, or both, have become 
unable to work. The policy allowed multiple claims and, by helping cover  mortgage costs, 
could potentially help Miss S and Miss Ms preserve their sick pay or redundancy money  for 
other uses and make  it less likely their home would be put at risk  and at what could be a 
difficult and uncertain  time if Miss M or Miss S, or both, were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Miss S and Miss M wouldve still taken  the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if either Miss S or Miss M, or both, were made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not they 
would have taken  the policy in any event,  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Miss S and Miss Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  
(DISP App 3) make  it clear  that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be 
presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN10622638That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss S and Miss M would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss S and 
Miss Ms circumstances, as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
they found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  have been  
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Miss S and Miss M believe the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the 
sales process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have 
failed to give proper  weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would 
not have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss S and Miss M in the position they would have been 
in if they had not bought  the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Miss S and Miss M wouldnt have taken the 
policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they wouldve still taken 
the policy had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information  about the policy  
they were buying.  
So Im not persuaded it would in those  circumstances be fair and reasonable to conclude 
RBS should pay Miss S and Miss M compensation, as that would put them in a better  
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware Miss S and Miss M think RBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of RBSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why RBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  RBS gave Miss S and Miss M, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1999 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss S and Miss Ms representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find RBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss S and Miss M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find RBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
Ref: DRN10622639think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss S and Miss M in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1062263