K821x#15Complaint
Mr A has complained that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  (Moneybarn)  unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale car finance agreement  with him when  it ought reasonably to have realised 
that the payments were unaffordable. Hes said that he was very surprised to be accepted 
for the finance  as he never  expected to because  of the state of his finances. He also said 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality and he tried to return  it as a result.
Background
Moneybarn received an application for finance  from Mr A through an intermediary in        
May 2018. It entered  into a conditional  sale agreement with Mr A providing him with the 
entire purchase amount of £7,695.00 over a term of 52 months. The loan had an annual 
percentage rate (APR)  of 37.4%, which was made up of interest of £6,513.09. This meant 
that the total amount  repayable was £14,208.09 and it was due to be repaid in 51 
instalments of £278.59.
Mr A phoned  Moneybarn a few days  after the sale, to say that he wished to return the 
vehicle. He said he wanted to reject the car as it wasnt suitable for purpose.  This was 
followed by an email  the following day where  he confirmed that hed contacted the dealer to 
explain these points  and he now wanted to cancel the agreement and return the car. 
Moneybarn treated these  concerns as a formal complaint and arranged for a company  to 
inspect the vehicle. This third-party inspection company didnt agree that the vehicle wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. So Moneybarn didnt uphold  Mr As complaint.
Subsequent to this Mr A fell behind on the payments to his agreement.  At this stage its 
unclear whether this was because he chose  not to pay as he wanted to return the car, or it 
was because he couldnt afford  to make the payments. But this doesnt matter too much 
because Mr A, in any event, went on to make  a complaint about the finance having  been 
irresponsibly provided to him because he would  never have been  able to afford  to make the 
payments. Moneybarn also rejected this complaint saying that it did enough  to establish that 
Mr A could afford to make the payments and so it didnt lend irresponsibly.
Mr A disagreed with Moneybarns findings  both on the quality of the car and the affordability  
of the payments to the conditional sale agreement. Mr As complaint was then reviewed by 
one of our investigators. Having considered everything, he didnt think  that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was provided to Mr A. That said, he also didnt think  that 
Moneybarn had completed proportionate  checks to establish that Mr A could afford the 
monthly payments  to the car. And if it had carried out such checks  it would have seen that 
Mr A wasnt  in a position to be able to afford to make the payments. 
So overall, our investigator partially  upheld Mr As complaint and said that Moneybarn should  
take back the car from Mr A and terminate  the conditional sale agreement.  There  was no 
refund to be made as Mr A hadnt paid a deposit  or made any of payments due on the 
agreement. 
Moneybarn disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review  
the complaint.
Ref: DRN15230472The regulatory and legal framework
Moneybarn lent to Mr A while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for Business set out the overarching 
requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  
and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules which apply to providers of 
consumer credit like Moneybarn. Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think  the most 
relevant sections of CONC  here are CONC 1 which  sets out guidance in relation to financial 
difficulties; CONC 4 which set out a firms obligations in relation to the pre-contractual 
information provided and adequate explanations;  CONC  5 which sets out a firms obligations 
in relation to responsible lending; and CONC  6 which sets out a firms obligations after a 
consumer has entered  into a regulated  agreement.
CONC 1.3G provides  guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following  matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware  or ought  reasonably  to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1)consecutively failing  to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store  
card;
(2)adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3)outstanding  county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4)inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment  of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow  further to repay existing debts,  or the customer  only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets  or security;
(5)consecutively failing  to meet repayments  when due;
(6)agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution ;
(7)evidence of discussions with a firm (including  a not-for-profit debt advice  body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management  plan or other  debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the previous regulator,  the Office  of 
Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG) and the rules  set out in CONC. 
As is evident from the following  extracts,  the FCAs CONC  rules specifically note and refer 
back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many  occasions.
Ref: DRN15230473CONC 4 sets out a firms obligations  around  pre-contract disclosure  and adequate 
explanations. 
CONC 4.2.5R(1) says:  
Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must: 
(a) provide the customer with an adequate  explanation of the matters referred to in 
(2) in order to place  the customer in a position  to assess  whether the agreement  is 
adapted to the customers  needs  and financial situation.
CONC 4.2.5R(2) includes: 
(a) the features  of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided  under 
the agreement  unsuitable for particular types of use; 
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can 
be determined, in total under the agreement;  
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which  would have 
a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer  is unlikely 
to foresee.  
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. These rules were  
updated in November 2018,  but I refer below to the rules as they were at the time 
Moneybarn lent to Mr A in May 2018. 
CONC 5.2.1R(2) sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to provide a consumer  
with credit,  including  entering into an agreement of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information  of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. 
CONC 5.2.3G says:  
The extent  and scope  of the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case,  should  be dependent  upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following: 
(1)the type of credit ; 
Ref: DRN15230474(2)the amount  of the credit ; 
(3)the cost of the credit; 
(4)the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking  the credit ; 
(5)the customers credit history, including any indications  that the customer  is 
experiencing or has experienced  financial difficulties;  
(6)the customers existing financial commitments  including any repayments  due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated 
mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, 
telecommunications, water and other major outgoings known to the firm; 
(7)any future financial commitments of the customer; 
(8)any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably  expected to 
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer ; 
(9)the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental  capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because  the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation (see CONC 2.10).  
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:  A firm should  consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says: In making the creditworthiness  assessment or the 
assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more  than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says: The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say: 
Ref: DRN15230475For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
 unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states: (a) it is not generally  sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful  in completing  the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also provides guidance  to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this 
time making  reference  to the OFTs Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G says:  When dealing with customers in default  or in arrears  difficulties  
a firm should pay due regard to its obligations  under  Principle 6 (Customers interests) to 
treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R says that: A firm must treat customers in default  or in arrears  difficulties  with 
forbearance and due consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG ]
CONC 2.5 sets out rules  and guidance for the conduct of business  for credit broking. Again 
there is an alignment between the Office of Fair Tradings Credit  Brokers and Intermediaries 
Guidance (CBG), as well as the ILG and the rules  set out in CONC 2.5, as again the 
Financial Conduct  Authority rules refer back to sections of the OFTs  guidance.
CONC 2.5.3R says:   
Ref: DRN15230476A firm must: 
(1) where it has responsibility for doing so, explain  the key features of a regulated 
credit agreement  to enable the customer  to make  an informed choice as 
required by CONC 4.2.5  R;
[Note:  paragraphs  4.27 to 4.30 of CBG and 2.2 of ILG]
(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy  itself that a product it wishes to recommend 
to a customer is not unsuitable for the customers needs and circumstances;
[Note:  paragraph  4.22 of CBG ]
(3) advise a customer to read,  and allow  the customer  sufficient  opportunity to 
consider, the terms and conditions  of a credit  agreement  or consumer hire 
agreement before entering  into it; 
[Note:  paragraph  3.9l of CBG]
CONC 2.5.8R says:  
A firm must not:

(10) effect an introduction to a lender or an owner or to another  credit broker, 
where the firm has considered whether  the customer  might meet  the relevant 
lending or hiring criteria and it is or should be apparent  to the firm that 
the customer does  not meet those criteria;
[Note: paragraph 3.9aa and 4.41i of CBG]

(17) unfairly encourage a customer to increase, consolidate or refinance (which  
expression has the same meaning as in CONC 6.7.17 R) an existing debt to 
the extent that repayments under an agreement would be unsustainable for 
the customer;
[Note: paragraph 4.26h of CBG ]
(18) encourage a customer to take out additional  credit or to extend  the term of an 
existing credit agreement  where  to do so is, or is reasonably  likely  be, to the 
detriment of a customer;
[Note: paragraph 4.41h of CBG ]
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) is an act established for the protection of consumers 
and the control  of traders of the provision  of credit. S56 of the Act provides as follows:
Ref: DRN1523047756 Antecedent negotiations 
(1)  In this Act antecedent negotiations means  any negotiations with the debtor or 
hirer
(a)  conducted by the creditor  or owner  in relation  to the making of any 
regulated agreement, or
(b)  conducted by a credit-broker in relation to goods  sold or proposed to be 
sold by the credit-broker to the creditor before forming the subject-matter  of a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  within  section  12(a) , or
(c)  conducted by the supplier in relation  to a transaction financed or 
proposed to be financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement 
within section 12(b) or (c),and negotiator  means  the person by whom 
negotiations are so conducted with the debtor  or hirer.
(2)  Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall 
be deemed to be conducted  by the negotiator in the capacity of agent  of the creditor 
as well as in his actual capacity.
(3)  An agreement is void if, and to the extent that, it purports in relation to an actual 
or prospective regulated agreement
(a)to provide that a person acting as, or on behalf of, a negotiator  is to be 
treated as the agent of the debtor or hirer,  or
(b)to relieve a person from liability for acts or omissions of any person acting 
as, or on behalf of, a negotiator.
(4)  For the purposes of this Act, antecedent negotiations shall be taken to begin  
when the negotiator and the debtor or hirer first enter into communication (including 
communication by advertisement), and to include any representations made by the 
negotiator to the debtor or hirer and any other dealings  between them.
So one of the purposes of Section 56 CCA  is to deem credit-brokers and suppliers to be the 
agent of the creditor when  conducting  antecedent negotiations with a debtor in relation to 
goods and services purchased with finance  under  debtor-creditor-supplier agreements. 
Section 99 CCA sets out a consumers right to terminate a hire purchase  or conditional sale 
agreement by giving notice. It states:
99 Right to terminate hire-purchase etc. agreements.
(1)At any time before  the final payment  by the debtor  under  a regulated  hire-
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
 
(2)Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability  
under the agreement  which has accrued before the termination
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination:
Ref: DRN15230478100 Liability of debtor on termination of hire-purchase etc. agreement.
(1)Where a regulated  hire-purchase or regulated conditional  sale agreement is 
terminated under section  99 the debtor shall be liable,  unless the agreement  
provides for a smaller  payment, or does not provide  for any payment,  to pay to 
the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half  of the total price exceeds  the 
aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price 
immediately before the termination
My provisional findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of      
Mr As complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and law, and considering  what I now think is 
the main reason for Mr As complaint, I think there  are two overarching  questions that I need 
to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. These questions are:
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to make the payments  to his conditional sale agreement in a sustainable 
way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr A wouldve been  able to do so?
Did Moneybarn act towards  Mr A unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Moneybarn did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Did Moneybarn complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place when Moneybarn lent to Mr A required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr A could  afford  to make  his repayments in a sustainable manner. 
This is sometimes  referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Moneybarn  had to think  
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  
consequences for Mr A. In other  words,  it wasnt enough for Moneybarn  to think  only about 
the likelihood that it would  get its money back, or that the loan was secured on the vehicle 
sold, without considering the impact  of repayment  on Mr A himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application in 
question. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check  will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Ref: DRN15230479Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different loan 
applications.
In the light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought  generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
repayments from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Moneybarns checks before entering into the conditional sale agreement with Mr A.
Moneybarn says that as it is a sub-prime lender the majority of its customers have lower 
than average credit  ratings. Mr As credit history  was deemed acceptable and he met the 
criteria in which to proceed  to the next stage of the application process. It says it requested 
proof of Mr As income and asked him to either provide pay slips or bank  statements. 
Mr A sent over pay slips and they were satisfactory for its underwriting  criteria. Mr A was 
also subject to its usual  credit checks which included a check for indebtedness.  Mr A also 
signed several documents including pre-contractual information. And in its view this 
highlighted that Mr A shouldnt enter into the agreement should  he know of any reason  why it 
might not have been affordable for him in the future.  
When asked to provide  the output of the credit checks carried out, Moneybarn couldnt  do 
so. It said that it was only able to confirm that two searches were  carried  out in May 2018.  It 
could provide the authorisation  numbers that the agencies carrying  out the checks  provided. 
But it didnt have anything  on the output of these checks. Its unclear whether Moneybarn  
ever received this information and simply relied  on the results of the searches reaching  a 
particular threshold,  or whether this information  was obtained at the time but wasnt  retained.
In any event, as Moneybarn says it carried out credit checks regarding Mr As indebtedness  I 
consider it perfectly  fair and reasonable to expect it to have had some  knowledge  of Mr As 
recent credit history. Especially as it said that as a sub-prime lender the majority of its 
customers have lower  than average credit  ratings. Having reviewed Mr As credit  file, I can 
see that hed defaulted on a number  of his previous credit commitments and he was in 
arrears on a number of others too. 
Bearing this in mind  as well as the fact that Mr A either wasnt asked to, or wasnt  able to 
provide a deposit when purchasing the car, the term of the agreement and the amount of the 
monthly payments,  I think that it would have been reasonable and proportionate to find out 
Ref: DRN152304710more about Mr As monthly outgoings in order to assess  whether he could take on this 
commitment. 
For whatever reason,  Mr A had proved unable to maintain his commitments to a number of 
other lenders. So I think it was reasonable and proportionate to apply  further scrutiny  to     
Mr As expenditure (he was asked to evidence his income) in order  to understand why things 
were going  to be different this time and that Mr A would be able to make  his payments in this 
instance. 
While Moneybarn did apply reasonable scrutiny to Mr As income by asking  him to evidence 
this in the form of payslips, I dont think that it fairly and reasonably applied the same 
scrutiny to his expenditure. As far as I can see, Moneybarn didnt ask Mr A anything  at all 
about his expenditure let alone  verify  it. Instead  it proceeded  with the application because 
the monthly payment required was less than 25% of Mr As verified income.  And 
Moneybarns submissions  to me appear to be saying that it would  always proceed with an 
application where the proposed monthly  payments are less than 25% of verified income.
I have significant  concerns  about  the proportionality (as well as the lack of borrower focused 
nature) of any approach  that heavily relies on it being fair and reasonable for a lender to lend 
simply because the monthly payments are below a certain percentage of a prospective 
borrowers income. Especially where that lender  says the majority of its customers have had 
previous problems repaying credit.  But Im not required to consider Moneybarns  lending 
process as a whole  here. 
What Im required  to do, in this case, is decide whether Moneybarns  checks  were 
reasonable and proportionate to understand if Mr A would more likely  than not have been 
able to make  the payments to this agreement bearing in mind what  it knew about  Mr A. And 
given what Ive said about Mr As previous difficulties repaying  credit and his existing 
commitments, both of which I think are more likely than not to have shown  up in the credit 
checks carried out, I think Moneybarns failure  to take any steps to ascertain Mr As actual 
monthly expenditure, let alone  verify it leads me to conclude that its checks before entering 
into this conditional  sale agreement with Mr A were  neither reasonable nor proportionate. 
Ive seen Moneybarns  submissions regarding Mr As most recent default not being counted 
because it was for a small amount. But in my view a prospective borrower defaulting  on a 
small  amount  remains  a significant  concern  that merits  further  investigation.  I think  a 
borrower  not being  able to, or perhaps  choosing,  not to pay a small  amount  and instead  
accepting  the significant  implications  of default  is indicative  of that consumer  possibly  
having  wider  financial  difficulty.  And where  a lender  is aware  of any such  defaults  I think  
its fair and reasonable  for that lender  to enquire  into the circumstances  behind  it and 
also take additional  steps  to ensure  that any further  lending  is affordable.  
So Moneybarns  submissions  in relation  to Mr As most  recent  default  havent  
persuaded  me to alter my conclusion  that its failure  to verify  Mr As expenditure  meant  
that it didnt  complete  reasonable  or proportionate  checks  before  entering  into this 
conditional  sale agreement  with Mr A.
Ref: DRN152304711Would reasonable and proportionate  checks on Mr As conditional sale agreement have 
indicated to Moneybarn  that he would more  likely  than not have been  unable to make  the 
payments in a sustainable manner?
Ive already explained that I think reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve involved 
verifying Mr As normal monthly outgoings  and any regular financial commitments. But as 
Moneybarn didnt carry out such checks before entering into this agreement, I cant say for 
sure what  any such verification of Mr As normal monthly outgoings and regular financial 
commitments would more likely  than not have shown. 
So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that fair, reasonable and proportionate  
affordability checks wouldve told Moneybarn  that it was unfair to offer these funds to Mr A. 
To help us understand for ourselves what Moneybarn  would more likely than not have 
discovered if it had completed  reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mr As agreement, 
we asked Mr A to provide us with information  on his financial  circumstances. 
Of course,  I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something  
shows up in the information Mr A has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any 
checks Moneybarn mightve  carried out. But in the absence of anything  else from 
Moneybarn showing what Mr As monthly  expenditure  is more  likely than not to have 
consisted of, I think its fair and reasonable to place considerable  weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr As financial circumstances were likely  to have been at the time. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr As provided and Ive also thought  about  
everything both parties have said. Having done  so, I dont think Mr A was in a position to 
sustainably make the payments to this agreement. I say this because I think  that any 
reasonable review  of Mr As outgoings,  would  have shown that he was already in a difficult  
financial position. 
He already owed  significant amounts of money to various credit providers on credit cards,  
personal loans  and a logbook loan.  He wasnt making any significant inroads into what  he 
owed on these debts,  only making  minimum payments  where he made  any payment at all, 
and instead was engaged  in a cycle of borrowing from multiple short-term providers in an 
attempt to make these payments and to repay previous loans.  And this doesnt even take 
into account any costs  for his and his dependants normal  living expenses either.
In these circumstances, I think there  was little reasonable prospect of Mr A being  able to 
make his payments  without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as I think  that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have  shown Moneybarn  all 
of this, it follows that I think reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have alerted it to the fact that Mr A wouldnt have been able to sustainably  make the 
repayments due under this agreement.  
Bearing in mind all of this, I find that Moneybarn didnt act fairly and reasonably  towards     
Mr A when it entered into this conditional sale agreement with him. 
Did Moneybarn act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
Even though  Ive already  set out why I find that Moneybarn shouldnt have entered  into this 
conditional sale agreement with Mr A. There are a couple of other  matters  which  could mean 
that Moneybarn  acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way.
Ref: DRN152304712Firstly, there  is the matter of Mr As concerns about the quality of the vehicle. Ive thought 
about this matter carefully.  But as Ive already found  that Moneybarn shouldnt  have entered  
into this conditional  sale agreement with Mr A in the first place, I dont  think  that any finding 
that I may make in relation to the car Mr A was sold not being  of satisfactory quality, will 
materially affect Mr As position.  So, in these circumstances, as its not necessary for me to 
do so, I make no finding on whether or not the car Mr A was sold was of satisfactory quality.    
Secondly Ive also considered Moneybarns failure to repossess the vehicle from Mr A  
especially in light of the fact that no payments at all  whether as a deposit  or in the form of 
monthly payments   have ever been  made.  Moneybarn has said that it didnt take any steps  
to take possession of the vehicle because the agreement was in dispute and that it wished to 
avoid causing  further distress  to Mr A. 
Ive given thought to what Moneybarn has said and I would agree that exercising 
forbearance where a consumer  may be experiencing  financial  difficulty in the usual course of 
a dispute with our service  wouldnt  usually be an unreasonable course of action. This would 
especially be the case where the consumer  was reliant on a vehicle for work, health  
reasons, or any other good  reason.  
That said,  Im mindful of the particular circumstances of this case. And in particular the fact 
that Mr A attempted to return the vehicle  albeit  for different reasons  within a week  of 
purchasing it. As I understand  it, Mr A also made numerous other attempts to get Moneybarn 
to collect the vehicle saying that he wasnt using it because he wasnt  able to and that he 
was incurring storage  costs because Moneybarn was unfairly refusing to take it back. 
So, bearing in mind these particular  circumstances,  I think that Moneybarn  taking 
possession of the vehicle was the fair and reasonable  thing  to do. And Im concerned that 
Moneybarns failure to do so is likely to have led to a significant diminution  in the value of the 
vehicle and possibly  led to Mr A incurring additional costs.
Given all of this, I find that Moneybarns failure to collect the vehicle from Mr A meant that it 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  towards  him in some other way.      
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about  the two overarching questions, set out on page 8 of this 
decision, I find that:
Moneybarn failed  to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to establish 
whether Mr A would  be able to sustainably make his repayments before entering into 
this conditional  sale agreement with him; 
Reasonable  and proportionate checks would more likely than not have showed 
Moneybarn that Mr A would not have been able to sustainably make  the repayments  
to this agreement  as and when they fell due;
Moneybarn acted  unfairly or unreasonably  towards Mr A in some other way by 
refusing to take possession of the car when Mr A asked  it to and in circumstances 
where it was aware that Mr A said he couldnt afford the payments. 
The above  findings leave me minded  to reach  the overall conclusion that Moneybarn didnt 
act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A.
Ref: DRN152304713Did Mr A lose out as a result of Moneybarns shortcomings?
I think that Mr A did suffer adverse consequences  as a result  of Moneybarn unfairly entering 
into this conditional  sale agreement with him. I think this is the case because  hes being 
expected to pay interest and other  charges on an agreement that never should have been 
entered into.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case,  Im find that Mr A lost out because 
Moneybarn unfairly  entered  into a conditional  sale agreement with him, which  it ought  to 
have realised was unaffordable for him. And this means I think  that Moneybarn needs  to put 
things right.
Fair compensation  what  Moneybarn needs  to do to put things right  for Mr A
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Moneybarn putting Mr A 
in the position hed now be in if he hadnt  been  sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr A 
was given the car in question and it has been  in his possession for almost two years.  So, in 
these circumstances,  its difficult  to easily place Mr A back in the position  he would be in if he 
hadnt been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn  to put things right in 
the following  way.
Our website  sets out the main  things we consider when looking  at putting things right in 
cases where we conclude that a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable 
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back  the credit amount 
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower 
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit  of the credit that they were  
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and 
charges  that will have  caused the consumer to lose out. 
But in this case there are no interest and charges to be refunded  because  no payments at all 
were made to the agreement. Equally Ive already  found that Moneybarn  should have taken 
possession of the car sometime ago and my direction needs to reflect  this. So, given 
Moneybarn now needs to take back the car, it wouldnt  be fair to expect Mr A to pay back the 
amount he was lent as he wont have the vehicle. In these circumstances, Im satisfied that 
that the fair and reasonable thing to do in this case would be for Moneybarn  to recover the 
vehicle from Mr A and to terminate the agreement. As Mr A didnt pay a deposit and didnt 
make any payments to the agreement there is no refund for Moneybarn to make to him. 
I have already said that I acknowledge Mr A has been in possession  of the car for almost 
two years.  And ordinarily Id usually say that a customer  should have to pay for having had 
use of the vehicle for the period of time that they did. But Ive also found  that Moneybarn  
Ref: DRN152304714didnt act fairly and reasonably by not collecting the car and the information Ive been  
provided with (the current mileage of the car) indicates that its more likely than not that Mr A 
hasnt used the vehicle in the period since. 
So, given the particular circumstances of this case,  I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable for Moneybarn to charge Mr A anything  for usage.  
Mr As credit  file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the finance they shouldnt 
have been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer is typically 
refunded and the expectation is they will have repaid,  or they should  repay  what they owe.
But I dont think that doing this would  be the fair and reasonable  thing  to do given the 
particular circumstances.
To explain, Im telling Moneybarn to collect the car from Mr A and terminate the agreement.  
Ive also said that it isnt fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to charge anything for usage for 
the period where Mr A had the car because it more likely than not wasnt used. So while  I 
started out by saying  that its difficult to place  Mr A in the position he would have been had 
he not been provided with the funds  to buy this car in the first place, it seems to me that this 
is one of those  unique circumstances where I have been able to unwind what went  wrong.  
Moneybarn doesnt  have to refund any payments, it simply  has to take the car back from    
Mr A and although its now a couple  of years older it more likely  than not hasnt been used. 
Given I have, to all intent  and purpose, been  able to put Mr A in the position  he would be in 
had he not entered into this agreement I think it would be unreasonable for me to depart 
from this conclusion in terms of Mr As affairs going forward   especially where Im issuing a 
decision in circumstances  where Mr A has said his financial position  hasnt  improved. 
In these circumstances, it seems to me that amending Mr As credit file to remove adverse 
information (and in effect record that this loan was settled early) thus potentially increasing 
the chances of him being able to access further  funds would be counterproductive and 
arguably not in his best interests, or those  of any potential lender.  
So having  carefully thought about  everything, rather than asking it to remove any adverse 
information from Mr As credit file, I think that Moneybarn should  remove the agreement in its 
entirety from Mr As credit file. This means that Moneybarn should  remove  all reference to 
this conditional  sale agreement from Mr As credit  file.
Compensation for additional losses and any distress  and inconvenience caused
Mr A has told us that hes had to pay fees to store the vehicle  as a result  of Moneybarns 
refusal to take it back. Hes told us that he reached an agreement where hed pay £120 a 
month, that hes already paid £500 in fees;  and that hes liable for a further £1,780.  He says 
that Moneybarn  should reimburse him these  costs. Ive given a lot of thought to what  hes 
said.
I want to start by saying  that I can make an award to cover  any additional  or consequential 
 losses suffered by a consumer where  those  losses were directly caused  by a firm acting 
unfairly or unreasonably towards  them.  So as Ive found that Moneybarn acted unfairly or 
Ref: DRN152304715unreasonably towards  Mr A in some other way by failing to collect the car from him, I can 
and should make an award  for any costs Mr A incurred in order to store  the car. But Id need 
to be satisfied that it was more likely  than not that any fees have already been paid or that 
they are due to be paid.  As this is the case,  Ive considered whether Mr A has suffered or is 
due to suffer a loss as a result of having to pay storage fees.
I accept that its perfectly possible  for a consumer to have to pay fees to store a vehicle that 
they arent using  where they dont  have the space  to store  this themselves.  Equally the 
figure of £120  a week that Mr A says he paid, while a little on the high side,  doesnt  appear 
to be wholly  unreasonable. That said, I asked Mr A to provide me with evidence of the 
existence of his agreement as well as evidence  of proof of payment  such as receipts, 
invoices, or some other  evidence of payment having been made. 
Mr A has provided me with some emails and screenshots of some  bank transfers.  Ive given 
a lot of thought to what Mr A has provided. But Im afraid that the screenshots  provided dont 
show me who the payments are going  to or that they are going to cover parking payments. 
Indeed they are far too sporadic for me to draw a causal link between  whats  been paid and 
the figures quoted in the email. For example, I can only see sporadic payments here and 
there and nothing to suggest that Mr A was paying £120 a week.
As this is the case, I simply havent been  provided  with enough to reasonably conclude that 
its more likely than not Mr A has already paid £500  in storage fees and that hes liable for a 
further £1,780.  And as Im not making  a finding  that its more likely  than not that these fees 
have been paid and that the remaining amount is due, it follows that Im not making any 
award for storage costs.
That said,  I do think that Moneybarns acting unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A by not 
collecting the car from him did cause him a degree  of distress and inconvenience. Our 
investigator recommended that Moneybarn should  pay Mr A £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions. 
Having considered matters, I dont  think  that this is unreasonable. And in the absence of any 
further arguments from either side as to why I should award  a different amount, Im satisfied  
that an award of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Moneybarn acting 
unfairly or unreasonably in some  other  way towards  Mr A represents  a fair and reasonable 
settlement in respect of this part of the case.   
Overall, all of this means that I find that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint for Moneybarn to put things right in the following way:
arrange to collect the car from Mr A at no cost to him; 
terminate the conditional  sale agreement and write off any outstanding balance  
remaining;
remove all reference to this conditional  sale agreement from Mr As credit  file;
pay Mr A £250 for the distress and inconvenience its actions in acting unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way  by failing to collect the car  caused. 
Ref: DRN152304716My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr As complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  
should put things right for Mr A in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
 
  
Ref: DRN1523047