K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs G says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2002 PPI was added to Mrs Gs credit card at the same time as she applied for the card. 
This was a postal sale  it appears Mrs G replied to a direct mailing.
The policy provided  protection for Mrs Gs credit card payments in the event she 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy  benefit was 10% 
of the outstanding monthly account balance and it would pay out for up to 12 months per 
claim. At the outset it cost 73 pence for every  £100 Mrs G owed on the card and the 
payments did attract  interest.
At the time of the sale Mrs G was employed, and she told us she was entitled to sick pay of 
six months full pay followed by six months  half pay. She said she had no other means  she 
couldve used to make  her repayments and she was in good  health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available  evidence showed that Mrs G chose to take out the cover.  And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her. The adjudicator  also said that the 
payment Capital One made in relation to high commission and profit  share was fair in the 
circumstances.
Because Mrs G disagrees,  the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mrs G was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint.  My reasons  are set out below.
did Mrs G have a choice about PPI?  
did she agree to take it out?
I can see Mrs Gs main complaint point relates  to these questions, so Ive considered them  
carefully. Mrs G has told us:
I do not agree  that I took the policy knowing or feeling that I had a choice as there  was no 
third party involved to explain  this to me. It was not made clear to me that I did not have to 
buy this policy if I did not want to.
Ref: DRN10089502And in response  to the adjudicator providing Mrs G with a copy of her credit card application 
she said:
I do not believe I ticked the box
This was a sale by post. And as I said above,  Capital One has a copy  of Mrs Gs credit  card 
application. Looking  at this I can see there is a separate section about  PPI titled  Insure your 
Payments. And it says:
I would  like to insure my card repayments  against redundancy, business failure, accident, 
sickness or loss of life. I have read and understood  the enclosed Payment Protection  
Insurance leaflet.  
Next to this statement there are two boxes - Yes and No. And the Yes box is ticked.
Nothing more  is said about PPI here or anywhere else on the application   nothing which 
says or implies that PPI had to be taken out. 
Mrs G says that there was no third-party involved to explain  she had a choice about PPI. But 
Mrs G was presented with two options  in the application   Yes and No  she could  tick to 
complete her application. Because  it was presented this way, and because  Mr G completed 
the application in her own time without any interaction with a member  of Capital Ones staff -
it is typically when there  is interaction  with a business where problems in this area can arise 
- Im not persuaded  Mrs G wouldve been  given  the impression that she had to have PPI.
Mrs G has also told us that she doesnt believe she ticked the box. But I think she did  
although I can understand why she cant now remember  doing so. As I said above, Mrs G 
completed the form in her own time and posted  it back to Capital One  there was no 
involvement from Capital  One at the application stage. Ive seen nothing to persuade  me that 
it wasnt Mrs G who ticked the box to take out the PPI.
So, after careful  consideration of the evidence presented to me by both parties  on this 
matter, I think  Mrs G chose and agreed  to take out PPI.
the information   
This wasnt an advised sale  as I said there  was no opportunity  for Capital One to establish 
Mrs Gs need for the policy.  So Capital One didnt have to ensure the cover  was right or 
suitable for Mrs G. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information  about the 
policy so she could  make  an informed decision.
I said above that the credit card application  broadly  outlined what PPI was  it also referred 
to an enclosed PPI leaflet. Ive not seen a copy of the leaflet, so I dont know  exactly what 
information it contained. But it seems reasonable to assume that it provided more 
information about the nature of the cover offered.
I think given this was a postal sale, its likely Mrs G wouldve read some  if not all of this 
information  I find it unlikely she went ahead without knowing anything  about it.
But the evidence  doesnt tell me that Capital One did all that it should  fairly and reasonably  
have done. For example  its not clear to me Capital One clearly  set out the cost information  
Ref: DRN10089503the fact that the premiums might  attract  interest  and would remain  payable during a claim  
or that the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover were  clearly highlighted. So I accept 
its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs G as a whole about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  
But as I found  above, I think Mrs G chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And based on her circumstances  at the time it doesnt appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasnt  affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances;  and despite her existing means  it seems  
like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs G off taking 
out the cover. 
conclusion
While Capital One might  not have done everything it should  fairly  and reasonably  have done 
when it sold Mrs G PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think  shed have  still gone  
ahead and taken  out PPI had Capital One done anything more.
This means  I dont  think Mrs G has lost out to the extent that Capital One has to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including  what shes  said about having sick 
pay; that the policy wasnt suitable  for her; and that she wouldnt have bought the policy  if 
Capital One had done what  it was supposed  to do. But these points dont change my 
decision.
Ive considered the fact that Mrs G did have some  sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to this and for up to 12 months  per claim. Given  the policy benefit level, it also 
had the potential to clear  the outstanding balance in full. 
Im mindful too that Mrs G said she didnt have any other means  such as savings to fall back 
on. And it is for these reasons that I dont  think the policy was wrong or inappropriate for her. 
So had Mrs G understood the true cost and benefit of the policy, in weighing things up, I 
think shed have still thought it couldve been useful to her if the insured risks became  a 
reality  I think shed have taken it out in any event. 
Ive thought about what Mrs G has said she wouldve done with more information  she says 
she wouldnt  have taken  out the policy. But of the two possibilities, I think its more likely than 
not that she wouldve still taken the policy out. And I say this for the reasons Ive set out 
above.
Ref: DRN10089504my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Capital One does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1008950