K821x#15complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between  February 2015  and 
October 2016. This is a summary  of Mr Hs lending history from Mr Lender. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 01/02/2015 25/02/2015 250
2 26/02/2015 01/04/2015 400
3 07/04/2015 24/04/2015 200
4 29/04/2015 28/07/2015 700
5 30/07/2015 23/10/2015 500
6 15/03/2016 07/06/2016 250
7 15/06/2016 24/06/2016 100
8 29/06/2016 23/09/2016 300
9 08/10/2016 19/12/2016 400
Our adjudicator thought the loans from loan 4 onwards  shouldnt  have been given. 
Mr Lender didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN12703412refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Mr Lender needed  to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. So I dont think  Mr Lender was 
wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr H.
However I dont think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks  for loan 4. Had it done so I 
think it would  have  made a different lending decision. I say this because by loan 4 there 
were clear  signs  that Mr H was struggling to manage his money. When  Mr H applied for loan 
4 it was for a significantly larger amount that any of his three previous loans. It was the fourth  
loan he had applied  for in less than three months, and each time he had taken out a new 
loan within  days of settling a previous loan. 
Proportionate checks would have shown  that Mr H had at least three other active short term 
loans with different  lenders and was gambling heavily. I think  this would have  suggested to 
Mr Lender that Mr Hs finances were under pressure. It was most likely he was just 
borrowing to pay off other loans. And that this, and any subsequent loans, were unlikely to 
be sustainably affordable for Mr H. At this point  I think it should  have stopped lending to Mr 
H. At least  until such point that it had evidence that his finances had stabilised. And I cant  
see this was the case when it approved loans 5, 6 or 7. There wasnt  a sufficient  gap in 
lending for Mr Lender to have fairly  concluded  Mr Hs financial situation  had improved  
without completing  a fuller  financial review.
It follows I dont think Mr Lender  should have given loans 4 to 7 to Mr H.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN12703413Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached at loan 
8. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender  ought  to have realised  Mr H was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken  out eight loans in around  17 months. So 
Mr Lender ought to have  realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to 
borrow further to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan(s)  was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
From  loan 8 onwards  Mr H was provided  with a new loan within  a few days of 
repaying a previous  one. 
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Mr Lender. He had 
taken out nine loans in the 20 months  after his first loan. Mr Lender ought to have 
known that Mr H was not likely  borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall  in his income 
but to meet  an ongoing need. Mr H had paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, 
service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended  period.
I think that Mr H lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing  from loan 8 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  his 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept his in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
I have carefully considered Mr Lenders response  to our adjudicators view. I note it was 
unhappy with the lack of detail in the adjudicators  findings. I have  set out my reasons for 
upholding the complaint  from loan 4 onwards, and hope they will better  assist  Mr Lender  to 
understand why I have  reached this conclusion.  I also note it highlighted that Mr H repaid all 
his loans on time, if not early. But this doesnt change  my conclusion.  Whilst early repayment 
can in some circumstances be the sign of stable or improving finances, equally  someone 
may be borrowing  to repay  so on its own it is not a safe indicator of financial  stability.   
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 onwards, and Mr Lender should  put things 
right. 
Ref: DRN12703414putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 4 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 to 7 from Mr Hs credit file
the number  of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse, so all entries about  loans 8 and 9 should be removed from 
Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1270341