K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch  during a meeting  with an advisor. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £90.67 was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 12 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, unemployment, critical illness  and 
life  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay Mr Ws monthly loan 
repayment for up to 12 months in the event of a successful disability claim and in the event 
of unemployment.  
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a Chef.  Mr W has told us he was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  his loan should he be unable  to work. 
Mr W has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Barclays has sent us screenshots  to show that the loan account closed in 2000.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr W about the poor value;
 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN13304502As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws case.  
 
Ref: DRN13304503Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Due to the passage of time that has passed since the sale Barclays  is unable  to provide a 
copy of Mr Ws original sales paperwork. But it has provided sample copies of the 
documentation it says Mr W wouldve completed when applying  for his loan and PPI. 
Ref: DRN13304504I can see on the loan application there is a separate section that deals with PPI. It gives  the 
option to select  or decline  PPI with a tick box. Ive not seen enough to suggest  that this 
documentation wasnt used  in Mr Ws case.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr W knew the policy  was 
optional because he was given the option  to decline it on the loan application and he agreed  
to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Mr W hasnt said whether  advice was provided but Barclays has provided documentation  
which it says shows that the loan funds  were released from a branch which  suggests that 
advice was provided. So Im going to treat the sale as advised  this puts Mr W in the best 
position.
 
This means  Barclays had to advise Mr W with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W. It seems  Mr W cant remember clearly what happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Mr 
Ws financial circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps  
to establish whether Mr W would have been caught  by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Barclays considered  whether Mr W had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Barclays  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr W given his circumstances.  So Im 
not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr W had a need for the policy  he would not have  received any sick pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and he 
had limited savings  he could  fall back on. The policy would have helped Mr W 
manage the consequences  were  he unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
Ref: DRN13304505-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr W cancelled the policy  
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Mr W had plans  to repay  the loan early. The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr W would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr W knew that the single premium being added  to 
the loan was £90.67  and the monthly cost (as this information was, in my view, sufficiently 
clear on the sample  loan agreement that Mr W wouldve signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Barclays  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
W agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W Im not persuaded Barclays did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr W. Im not persuaded Barclays  gave  Mr W all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN13304506Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Barclayss shortcomings have  on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mr W would  have acted differently, or whether he would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr W was given  about  the cost was clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Ref: DRN13304507Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr W knew he was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost £90.67, it doesnt appear Barclays  told him the total 
cost of the policy over the loan term including the interest. 
Having said that, given the loan was relatively small  and interest  would only accrue  over 12 
months, and the interest would not have made the policy cost significantly more than Mr W 
realised, I dont think it likely the missing  cost information would have affected Mr Ws 
decision to buy the policy in his circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr W would have found the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Barclays made clear exactly what  Mr W would get back in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Ws expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr W 
knew about or for which he got advice, treatment  or counselling from any doctor in 
the 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr W repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr W to have  done  so; 
and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mr W didnt have  any pre-existing medical conditions and they were 
in permanent employment. Mr W also didnt  likely  need, and theres no evidence  to suggest 
he intended, to repay  the loan early. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr W would have 
Ref: DRN13304508expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr W was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr W made redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr W would not have 
bought the PPI he bought  unless , in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN13304509That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  me to 
alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr W in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1330450