K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that CIS General Insurance Limited  (CIS) declined  a claim under his home  
insurance policy. 
background
Mr C has a home insurance policy with CIS which covers buildings  and contents. He made a 
claim for damage to his house  which he said was caused by a storm.
CISs assessor inspected  Mr Cs property and decided that the damage was due to 
deterioration of mortar  over a period of time. So CIS declined the claim on the basis that the 
storm was not the main  cause of the damage. Mr Cs policy doesnt cover damage  resulting 
from gradual causes, wear and tear or deterioration.
Mr C complained to CIS. He said the assessor had told him that if there had been damaged 
roof tiles he would  have  approved the claim.  Mr C says his builder later discovered  cracked  
roof tiles. 
Mr C said the assessor  hadnt inspected the property properly and took photographs  using a 
camera stick rather than get up to the roof on ladders.
After CIS again told Mr C that the damage  was due to deterioration, Mr C also said CIS 
policy documents should have been  clear  about what  kind of maintenance was required on 
his property.
CIS didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint, so he complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought CIS has done nothing wrong.
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy  is quite clear that storm damage  is covered,  but gradual causes, wear  and tear 
and deterioration  are not (p.56 General Exceptions). 
Its not disputed  that there was a storm on the date in question.  And I have no reason to 
doubt Mr C when he says he noticed  the damage  immediately after the storm.
So, the question  for me is whether its most  likely that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage  as Mr C suggests  or whether it simply served to highlight  existing problems that 
resulted from gradual deterioration over time  as CIS suggest.
CIS expert assessor explained  why he thought the damage resulted from deterioration. He 
referred to the state of the mortar  which remained in place. And he referred to cracks which 
were evident  in the brickwork.
Ref: DRN12378562When Mr C questioned his opinion, CIS asked  the assessor to review the case. Mr C had 
provided a copy of an estimate  for repairs from his own builder. This included replacement of 
several cracked tiles, which the assessor hadnt noticed during his inspection.
The assessor said that the cracking in the tiles couldnt have been due to the high winds  
experienced during the storm  the tiles had stayed in place. And he explained  the likely 
cause was prolonged saturation  followed  by freezing weather  the saturation  being due to 
excessive moss and lichen growth  on the building which prevented  water  draining away  from 
the roof. 
Its impossible  for me to establish what exactly the assessor said to Mr C during the 
inspection. I have no doubt Mr Cs recollection of that conversation is as he suggests.  But I 
also have to bear in mind  that anything Mr C was told about damaged roof tiles would have  
to be taken in context and may have been open  to misinterpretation or confusion.  
I think CIS are entitled to rely on the report provided by their assessor   particularly  in light of 
the fact that this has been reviewed again after Mr C complained.
There is no expert evidence or opinion to contradict the assessors view of what  caused the 
damage to Mr Cs home. 
Mr C says his own builders disagree with the assessor, but the only evidence we have  is an 
estimate from them for repairs to the damage. This is headed  storm damage  but I dont 
think Mr Cs builders would suggest its anything other than an estimate  for work to be 
carried out. It certainly doesnt offer any detailed  view or explanation as to what the primary 
cause of the damage might be.
When CIS discussed Mr Cs claim and its outcome with him, they explained that the parts of 
the house in question should be regularly maintained to avoid damage  resulting from gradual 
deterioration. 
Mr C argued that his policy booklet or other documents provided by CIS should have made it 
clear that maintenance would need to be carried out  and how often. 
I assume from this that Mr C admits  that his property  hadnt been maintained with the 
recommended regularity. Which further  suggests the assessors  opinion  is likely to be 
correct. 
And Im afraid I dont agree with Mr C. Given that this is a general home insurance policy 
covering buildings and contents,  it would be impractical to expect CIS to give advice in their 
policy documents about every aspect of how best to maintain a property. 
I understand Mr Cs concern about the assessors  method  of inspecting the property, but 
having seen the photographs  in question,  Im satisfied they give a clear view of the relevant 
parts of Mr Cs house, however they may have  been taken.
In summary,  Im satisfied  CIS were justified  in relying on their assessors  opinion  and so 
declining the claim.  They  acted reasonably in reviewing the case once Mr C had provided  
further evidence  and made  his complaint. And I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for 
their policy documents  not to include advice on home maintenance. 
Ref: DRN12378563my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1237856