K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about whether Scottish  Equitable PLC (trading as Aegon)  misled Mr M by 
not disclosing  all of the charges, specifically the bid/offer spread, and so the actual cost of 
investing in a UK property fund, via Mr Ms Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP).
Mr Ms representative complains that as no bid/offer  spread was disclosed Mr M is entitled to 
be reimbursed the deduction from the amount he invested.
background
Mr M was advised by his representative to invest in the UK property fund which  was part of a 
portfolio of collective  retail  investments.  
Prior to the investment  the representative undertook research in order to identify what it 
thought was an accurate breakdown of the costs  to Mr M for investing in the UK property 
fund via the SIPP. This included obtaining an illustration, the relevant fund fact sheet  and 
key investor information  document. 
Following the investment  into the UK property fund it was noted  that there had been a 
deduction of approximately 5.5%  from the lump sum invested. Upon investigation  it was 
confirmed that an initial bid/offer  spread  charge had been deducted by the fund manager. 
Mr Ms representative raised a complaint on behalf of Mr M with Aegon  because this bid 
offer spread  had not been declared on the illustration or fund fact sheet prior to the 
investment being  made. 
Aegon did not uphold  the complaint. It said that its illustration had declared all the charges, 
in a format that they were required to do so, under  the Markets in Financial Instruments  
Directive (MIFID)2 legislation which took effect  from 3 January 2018. It had specifically 
used the guidance produced by the Tax Incentivised  Savings Association (TISA). 
Aegon also said that Mr M should have reviewed  the UK property  fund providers fact sheet 
and key investor information (KIID), in addition to the illustration before deciding to invest.  
Mr Ms representative disagreed. He referred Mr Ms complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. He agreed with Aegon  that 
the charges had been properly disclosed to Mr M. He referred to the wording of the MIFID  II 
legislation and TISA guidance.  Our adjudicator agreed that Aegon had declared  the charges 
it was required to by both the MIFID2 legislation and TISA guidance. 
The adjudicator noted that the definition of transaction costs under the MIFID II legislation  
includes both explicit and implicit  costs  and these are to be expressed as an average annual 
% of the funds  net asset value. 
Furthermore the KIID does make clear  reference  to a one-off transaction  charge and 
although the Aegon fund fact sheet only stated an annual management charge there was a 
caveat that other charges may apply. However, other commonly consulted  investment fund 
fact sheets, including that of the UK property fund provider, made clear a bid/offer spread 
would apply.
 
Ref: DRN15996102Mr Ms representative did not agree. He reiterated that the bid/offer spread should have 
been included  in the illustration. 
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I should say at the outset of my decision that this complaint is one of a number referred  to 
this service by Mr Ms representative  on behalf of some of his clients. Each of these 
complaints concerns the alleged non-disclosure of charges (specifically  the bid/offer spread) 
by Aegon  in respect of the UK property fund. 
As each  complaint concerns  the same discrete issue  and in the same circumstances, I trust 
all parties will understand  why my decision here is similar to my decisions in respect of the 
other complaints brought by the representative. I have though considered  each case on its 
own merits, circumstances and arguments  including, of course, Mr Ms complaint  here.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our adjudicator,  for the same  reasons as set 
out in his assessment of Mr Ms complaint, that it should not be upheld.
I agree  that the charges as set out in Aegons  illustration  are complex and lengthy,  especially 
for a lay investor. 
I also agree  with Mr Ms representative, in responding  to our adjudicators assessment, that:
The MIFID2  regulation should provide total transparency on costs and charges from 
everyone in the advice/provider chain .
But the clarity or otherwise of that regulation is not a matter for this service.  It is for the 
relevant regulators  or legislatures. This service is an informal dispute  resolution service. We 
are not a regulator.  We do not set the rules which financial firms must observe.
Mr Ms representative has complained  about  the clarity of the regulation.  It may be that the 
regulation is unclear. But that is a different matter to complaining that Aegon  has not 
complied with the regulation. 
Whatever the clarity or otherwise of the MIFID2 regulation, my remit here is only to 
determine if AEGON complied with it. I have  not seen any evidence to persuade  me that it 
has not. In other words,  the documentation  provided by Aegon  and specifically its illustration, 
met its regulatory obligations under  MIFID2 and the TISA guidance as explained by our 
adjudicator. 
However, having said that, I am not persuaded that it was reasonable to have  apparently 
relied only on the illustration document in establishing what costs  Mr M would incur  in 
making the investment into the UK property fund.
I note the KIID said in its heading that:
This document  provides you with key investor information about  this fund. It is not marketing 
material. The information is required by law to help  you understand the nature and the risks 
of investing in this fund.   You are advised  to read it so you can make an informed decision  
about  whether  to invest.
Ref: DRN15996103The KIID then continued:
Transaction costs: each day there  are two prices  for this Fund: a higher price you pay to 
buy units and a lower price you receive when you sell units. The Fund manager  calculates 
these prices. The difference between these prices  is called the 'spread'.
The spread  is separate  to the ongoing charges shown in this section. This Fund's spread 
reflects the transaction costs of buying  and selling commercial property, and other assets,  
incurred by the Master Fund. The spread can change  at any time and by any amount.  As an 
example, the buying price for units in this Fund was 5.44% higher than the selling price at 31 
December 2017.
I also note the (Provider) Property Fund   fact  sheet said, under costs that there  was an 
Ongoing Charge and a Bid/Offer Spread,  together amounting  to costs of in excess of 5%.
I also note that the Trustnet  Fact Sheet for the UK Property fund specifically referenced  that 
there was a bid price  and an offer price, the difference being approximately  5%.
The documents I have referred to above each made  clear that investors in the UK property 
fund would be subject  to a bid/offer spread. These  documents are widely  available and are 
intended specifically  to be standard reference  documents for potential investors.
It may be that Mr Ms adviser only saw these documents after Mr M had invested (I note that 
in an exchange  with Aegon on 31 August 2018, Mr Ms representative acknowledged that 
the fund providers fact sheet did disclose  the bid/offer spread) but if that was the case, then 
I am not persuaded Aegon should  be held to account for it.
I also agree  with our adjudicator that bid/offer spreads are common  for retail funds that 
invest in UK commercial property, owing  to the large and illiquid nature of property as an 
investment. 
In the circumstances, enquiries could have been  made to ask why such a common  feature  of 
this type of investment was, according Mr M and his representatives then understanding, 
apparently not a feature  of the specific UK property fund that Mr M was advised to invest  in. 
Such enquiries could  have been made to either  (or both) the UK property fund provider 
and Aegon to see if this cost would, in fact, have applied. 
In conclusion, my view is that sufficient information  was available to Mr M for him to have 
been forewarned  that a bid/offer spread would apply. Mr M may not have understood all the 
information that was available but he had engaged a financial  adviser  who would have been 
able to read and understand all the available information and who presumably had 
knowledge of bid/offer  spreads in many types of investments, including  Mr Ms.
I appreciate that the illustration did not refer to the bid/offer spread; but as Aegon has 
explained, it was intended to illustrate only the charges  applicable to the fund and not the 
initial investment  cost. Given that the other information that was available did refer to the 
bid/offer spread, it is unfortunate that the apparent discrepancy, from Mr Ms point of view, 
was not further  explored. 
Ref: DRN15996104For the reasons  above, I am not persuaded Aegon should be held accountable for Mr Ms 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1599610