K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Covea Insurance  plc has declined her let property insurance claim for 
malicious damage caused by her tenants. 
background
Mrs Ks tenants moved out of her property in November 2018  after which she discovered it 
was damaged. Mrs K initially  tried to sort out the damage herself but then decided  to make 
one claim to Covea in mid-March 2019 for 14 separate areas of malicious damage.  Covea 
appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property and validate the claim. 
Having done so the loss adjuster  advised Covea that the damage  wasnt covered as it 
wasnt caused maliciously and was largely  the result of wear and tear. The loss adjuster 
wrote to Mrs K to advise  her that her claim was being declined on the grounds  that itd been 
caused gradually, was the result of wear  and tear or was the result  of the tenants 
carelessness. The loss adjuster  said that Mrs Ks policy did provide cover  for damage 
caused accidentally  (defined by the policy as being suddenly  and by unexpected means),  as 
well as maliciously, but that none of the areas  of damage appeared to be so caused. 
Mrs K disagreed with Covea. She said most of the damage was malicious  or accidental in 
nature so she complained. Covea investigated Mrs Ks complaint but said the damage shed 
claimed for hadnt  been caused  maliciously  by the tenant and whilst it had considered  
whether it couldve  been  caused  accidentally it didnt think, taking the policy definition into 
account, that it was. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Coveas investigation,  Mrs K complained to this service that 
her claim had been declined and that she had been unable  to re-let her property because of 
the damage so had lost rent. Mrs K also said that she ended  up selling the property for less 
than its market value  because of the condition it was in. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that it should  be upheld in part. He 
said that, having considered all the areas of damage  Mrs K had reported, he agreed with 
Covea that none of them appeared to have been  caused maliciously.  But he did think  that 
some of the areas  of damage  were likely caused  accidentally by the tenant and should fall to 
be considered  by Covea under the accidental damage cover on the policy.  He thought the 
areas so covered were: 
1.The damage to the driveway wall at the front of the house  having reportedly been  hit by 
the tenant;
2.The damage to the bedroom blind likely to have been caused by it being  trapped  in the 
window;
3.The handle to one of the drawers on a set out drawers being  broken off which it was 
reasonable to think was the result of one incident;
4.The damage to a flat part of the roof where the felt had been removed which  it was also 
reasonable to think that happened as one single event;
5.The damage to the remote  control for the ceiling fan, also likely to be one single event;
6.The damage to one of the shelves in one of the bedrooms;
7.The damage to the utility  meter box housing;
8.The damage to some dining chairs.
Ref: DRN11409992He said that whilst Mrs K thought that a crack in the garage wall was the result of vehicle 
impact he hadnt seen any evidence that that had been the cause of damage. Our 
investigator said the policy included cover for landlords fixtures and fittings  so he disagreed 
with Covea that the items hed identified  (items 2, 3 and items 5 to 8 above) werent covered 
by the policy  because it didnt include contents cover. 
Our investigator also noted that Mrs K had claimed  for damage  to her kitchen ceiling as a 
result of a radiator leak above;  he thought  that Covea shouldve  considered this area of 
damage under the escape of water cover under the policy. And he noted that Mrs K had paid 
to repair  the fan remote  control and the handle from the drawer  (items 3 and 5 above)  so he 
thought Covea should reimburse her for these costs. But, as shed not carried out the other  
repairs (listed  above) prior to selling the house,  he didnt think shed suffered a financial loss 
that Covea needed to indemnify. But our investigator said that if Mrs K could produce 
evidence that shed carried out repairs to the other areas of damage before she sold the 
property then it would be reasonable for Covea  to cover these as well. 
With regard to all the other areas of damage Mrs K had claimed for, our investigator didnt 
think they were covered  by the policy so he didnt think  Covea  had unfairly declined  to cover 
them. He thought these areas of damage  had occurred  gradually  over time and were, 
therefore, excluded  from cover under the policy. This included damage to the swimming pool 
cover, the failure by the tenants  to ensure  the pool was cleaned, the driveway being uneven, 
a roller shutter on one of the kitchen cupboards and a carousel  in another  being  damaged,  
damage to some fence  panels, paintwork and wallpaper, the ceiling fan, and the microwave  
amongst other things.  
Our investigator didnt  think Covea  had unreasonably declined to pay for loss of rent as, on 
considering the policy  terms, he didnt think the property was uninhabitable  as the result of 
an insured event. He also thought that had Covea carried out the repairs  hed identified it 
was liable for under the accidental damage cover section of the policy they wouldnt  have  
had much of an effect on the condition of the property itself such  that it could be rented.  
Our investigator thought too about Mrs Ks complaint that shed had to sell the house for 
under its market value  because  the repairs hadnt  been carried  out by Covea. He noted  that 
she had provided  evidence that the property had at one time been marketed for £475,000 
but was eventually sold for £395,000  but, as with the loss of rent issue,  he didnt think  the 
areas of damage  Covea  was actually liable for wouldve meant,  if repaired,  Mrs K couldve 
got a higher price for her house.  So he didnt think  Covea could reasonably  be held 
responsible for Mrs K having to reduce  the price of her home. 
But our investigator did think that Coveas failure  to cover certain damage it was actually 
liable for under the policy had caused  Mrs K some  avoidable  inconvenience for which he 
recommended Covea pay her compensation of £200. 
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators  findings.  She said she was sure the swimming pool 
lid/cover had been stood  on by the tenant  and that the other areas  of damage were caused  
maliciously which, if theyd been  repaired,  wouldve meant she could have got nearer 
£500,000 for the house. She said what the tenants had done to the house  was horrible and 
that they had damaged the back of the garage. Mrs K said she wanted some compensation 
for the loss shed  had to take on the sale price and she said she wanted her complaint 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN11409993Covea replied to our investigator  to say that each of the areas of damage hed said should 
be covered under the accidental damage peril would attract a £100 policy excess  (all having  
happened at different  times).  Specifically it said:
1.It had been  provided  with evidence about  damage to the driveway  wall but it wanted  to 
know if there was an invoice to confirm  if any repairs had taken place.  It said the £100 
excess would apply;
2.It said it had two quotes for blinds  one at £120 and one at £145  so it wanted to know 
which of them related to the blind damaged by being trapped  in the window;
3.The drawer knob would fall under  the policy excess of £100  so it wouldnt pay anything;
4.Regarding the damage to the felt roof, it wanted to know  how it had been removed 
accidentally because  Mrs K had initially said there was a leak to the flat roof and that 
she would get a quote but there was no staining  evident except to some boarding. It said 
it wanted to know  if thered  been  any water ingress;
5.It said from the image provided the damage to the remote for the ceiling fan constituted a 
missing front panel and two missing rubber  buttons but Covea said it couldnt see which  
part of the policy  this would be covered by nor could it say how such damage might  have  
occurred. It said it looked like wear  and tear, which would be excluded from cover.  
Finally, it said,  even  if it could  cover the damage it was likely to fall under the £100 policy 
excess. 
6.It would  need  to see evidence of the cost of repairing the damaged shelf and it was likely  
that this would fall under the policy excess too;
7.It would  need  to see evidence of the cost of repairing the damage to the meter  box door 
and it was likely this would fall under the policy excess too;
8.That the dining chairs  didnt constitute landlords fixtures  and fittings  so it didnt accept 
that they were  covered. And it said it had evidence that the property had been let 
unfurnished.
Regarding the damage caused to the kitchen ceiling  by an escape of water  it said the 
photographs had showed a small stain which itd asked Mrs K to provide further details 
about but about which itd heard  nothing.  It said if there was an escape of water claim this 
would need to be logged and it would  attract  a £250  excess and it was likely that the minimal 
amount of damage  evident would fall under  this amount. It said the stain could be painted 
over with a stain block then emulsion.
Covea also said it didnt  think  its handling of the claim was responsible  for any trouble and 
upset experienced  by Mrs K. It said it was the condition the house had been left in by her 
tenants that had upset  her so it didnt think it should be made  to pay £200 in compensation. 
Our investigator thought about  what Mrs K and Covea had said and issued a second 
opinion. He said that it was reasonable in the circumstances  for Covea  to charge a separate  
excess for each area of damage claimed  for. Our investigator said he remained of the view 
that none of the damage had been  caused  maliciously. But he still thought  the areas of 
damage hed referred to in his first opinion as being covered under the accidental damage 
section remained covered (subject  to the application  of the policy  excess for each) along 
with the escape of water damage  to the kitchen ceiling. 
Our investigator said that Mrs K would need  to provide evidence of the repairs costs shed 
paid out to Covea before it needed  to settle any aspect of her claim (to which it would  need  
to add interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple  per year). And he said that Mrs K 
needed to be aware that the cost of repairing many of the items he said were  covered was 
likely to fall under the relevant policy excess. So, he said that, even if Covea had repaired 
Ref: DRN11409994those areas  of damage it was liable for, there  was insufficient evidence to show that Mrs Ks 
property wouldve sold for a higher price than it did. Our investigator also said that, given the 
areas of damage  were  all caused separately, thereby attracting separate excesses (most of 
which were in excess of the cost of repairing each area) it meant that most  of the trouble and 
upset shed experienced wasnt  as a consequence  of Coveas actions.  So he thought  that 
Covea no longer needed to pay Mrs K any compensation.  
Mrs K replied to say she was disappointed  not to be receiving any compensation and that 
separate excesses  were  to be applied because she thought it was just one claim. Mrs K also 
asked if she could receive a refund of any of her premium. 
Covea replied to say that the only thing it wanted  to say was that the damage to the chairs 
wasnt covered under  the policy because chairs  werent fixtures  or fittings, rather they were 
contents for which Mrs K had no cover. 
The complaint was referred  to me for a decision. On reviewing the evidence, I thought that 
Covea hadnt  unreasonably declined  cover for the damage to the chairs  as I thought they 
werent covered  under  the policy terms. I asked our investigator to write to Mrs K to let her 
know that I didnt  think the damage  to the chairs was covered as they were could reasonably  
be regarded to be furnishings. Our investigator  explained that furnishings were  considered  
to be contents  (as defined  by the policy)  for which Mrs K had no cover. Our investigator also 
explained that I couldnt reasonably consider the chairs  to be landlords  fixtures  and fittings 
either. As the policy  didnt include a definition for fixtures and fittings our investigator said it 
was reasonable  to normal everyday  meaning  to those words. That is that fixtures  are 
something that is attached to the property and fittings are items that arent attached other  
than by a nail or screw. He said that he didnt think the chairs could be described as either. 
Mrs K replied to say that the table was a fixed piece of furniture and the chairs came with the 
table so they could be said to be fittings  and they were maliciously damaged. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage sustained  by a property is covered by property insurance. Only damage 
caused by one of the perils listed in the policy (fire, theft, escape of water, flood etc.) is 
covered. If Mrs K can show the damage shes claiming for has been caused by one of the 
perils listed in the policy then Covea must pay her claim unless it can successfully rely on 
one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. 
Mrs K has said that her tenants caused  damage  to her property maliciously and I can see 
that her policy does indeed provide cover for malicious damage caused  by tenants. 
Malicious isnt specifically defined  in the policy so its reasonable to apply  its normal every 
day meaning, which is: the intention to cause  harm. Unfortunately for Mrs K theres  no 
evidence that any of the damage she reported to Covea as having  been caused by her 
tenant was as a result  of the tenant intending to cause harm to the property.  That means I 
dont think Covea unreasonably declined Mrs Ks claim(s) for cover for damage caused  
maliciously by her tenant. 
Ref: DRN11409995There are two other possible perils in Mrs Ks policy which, if it can be shown  either one 
caused the damage being claimed for, would provide  cover. These are (additional)  
accidental damage  cover and escape of water cover.  
Ive set out in some  detail above  the multiple areas of damage Mrs K claimed under her 
policy for. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mrs K hasnt been able to show that 
many of the areas  of damage  shes claimed for have been caused  accidentally or by an 
escape of water. I include in this, the damage to the swimming pool cover, the failure by the 
tenants to ensure the pool was cleaned, the driveway being uneven,  a roller shutter on one 
of the kitchen cupboards and a carousel in another being damaged, damage to some  fence  
panels, paintwork  and wallpaper, the ceiling fan, and the microwave  amongst other things. 
Having reviewed the photographs Mrs Ks provided, along with the loss adjusters reports,  I 
dont think that Covea unreasonably declined to cover these items of damage. Unfortunately  
for Mrs K theres no evidence they were  caused accidentally or by any of the other  perils  
listed in her policy.
But some of the items damage  those Ive listed above as items 1 to 8  are, I believe 
potentially covered by the policy. Its reasonable to think  given the nature of each item of 
damage - that each  instance of damage  (perhaps with the exception of item 4) was likely  to 
have been caused accidentally; that is damage caused suddenly and by unexpected means 
(as defined  in the policy terms).
But whilst Mrs K made just one claim that doesnt  mean that all items of damage can 
reasonably be classed as being  part of one claim. It is not the date the claim is made  that is 
important but the date and time the damage  arose. And it is clear from the descriptions of 
the damage to items 1 to 8 that the damage  caused  to the items must have happened at 
different times. That means Covea can fairly consider each item of damage as a separate  
claim and apply the relevant separate excess to each. I appreciate  Mrs K thinks  differently 
but Im unable to agree  with her. 
Covea has accepted that Mrs K had a potentially  valid claim to items 1 to 7 above.  In respect 
of item 1, damage  to the wall, it said it would consider the claim subject  to the production  of 
an invoice by Mrs K showing what the cost of repair had been. It said it would also be 
applying the relevant £100 policy excess. That seems reasonable to me. 
In respect of item 2, Covea said it had been  provided with two quotes  for replacement blinds 
but only one blind had been damaged.  It said it needed to know which  quote  related to the 
damaged blind and it said it would need apply the relevant £100 excess. That seems  
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Covea said items of damage 3, 5, 6 and 7 were all likely to fall under the policy  excess of 
£100 that would be applied to each. And it said the same about  the damage  to the kitchen 
ceiling, the only difference  being that the applicable  excess  for an escape  of water claim was 
£250. Given the nature of these five items  of damage, these dont seem unreasonable  
conclusions for Covea to have  reached. 
In relation to item 4, the damage  to the roof, I can see that Mrs K originally claimed that it 
was leaking and that she was going to send Covea a quote for repairs.  Ive seen no 
evidence that it was damaged accidentally, or maliciously, or that thered been  any water  
ingress from the roof such that the damage would be covered by the policy. Ive seen one 
photograph that shows a void with a plastic  tub collecting some water in it but theres no way 
to reference where  in the house  that it located  or what the cause was. Ive seen no 
Ref: DRN11409996photographs of the roof itself with the felt purportedly pulled back. So, in the circumstances, I 
dont think its unfair  that Covea has asked Mrs K to provide  evidence  of how the felt had 
been removed  accidentally or where  the water had ingressed into the home before it 
considers this claim further. 
So, subject to Mrs K providing the evidence of the repairs she had done and the costs she 
paid out  in respect of items 1 and 2  Covea should settle these  claims (less  the policy 
excesses). And, if Mrs K wants  Covea to consider the claim for a leak to the flat roof further 
(item 4) she needs to provide it with evidence  of the felt removal  and the location of any 
water ingress so it can consider this claim further. I dont think  Covea has unreasonably said 
that items  3, 5, 6 and 7 will likely each fall under the policy excess so it wont  be making  any 
settlement. That seems fair to me in all the circumstances.
With reference to item 8, Mrs Ks policy doesnt include cover for landlords  contents. 
Contents are defined in the policy as household goods and furnishings [my emphasis]. I 
think its reasonable to assume that dining chairs  are furnishings and so amount  to contents, 
which, as they arent included  on Mrs Ks policy, arent covered. 
Mrs Ks policy does  include  cover  for damage caused to landlords fixtures and fittings. 
Fixtures and fittings arent defined in the policy so its reasonable to apply the usual 
everyday meaning  (set out above) . Based on this definition,  I dont think the dining chairs 
can be said to be either of these. I know that Mrs K has said the table was fixed to the house 
and so the chairs  should also be considered to be fixtures  or fittings but Im unable  to agree 
with her. The chairs  werent attached to the property in any way and were  capable of being  
moved around. Unfortunately for Mrs K that means I think  Covea hasnt  unreasonable  
declined her claim for damage to the dining  chairs  because it isnt covered by the policy.  
Ive thought about whether Mrs K has a valid claim under the policy for loss of rent but Im 
unable to agree that she has so I dont think Covea has unfairly  declined  this aspect of her 
claim. Under  the policy, loss of rent cover is for if Mrs Ks property isnt habitable as a result 
of an insurable event and Mrs K either  has a tenant  or future  tenant  lined up. But based on 
what Ive set out above, I dont think that Mrs Ks property was uninhabitable as a result of 
an insured event for which  Covea was liable. The few items Ive set out above for which 
Covea is liable havent rendered the property uninhabitable so I dont think Covea  did 
anything wrong  by declining this aspect  of Mrs Ks claim. 
Similarly I cant reasonably conclude that Coveas failure to carry out the few relatively minor 
repairs for which it was liable under the policy terms was the reason Mrs K had to accept a 
significantly lower offer for her house  than she had marketed it for originally. Many of the 
areas of damage  she claimed for werent  covered, or fell under the relevant policy  excess, 
so it fell to her to arrange repairs in any event. 
Ive seen the evidence from the estate agents  that Mrs K provided containing the feedback  
from the viewings  she had. I can see that the viewers generally liked the house  but some  
commented that it needed cosmetic  work  throughout and was worn. Some  of the comments 
related to damage that Covea wasnt liable  for  such as the fence panels. But in order  to 
consider Covea was responsible for the lower  price Mrs K ultimately had to accept for her 
house, I would need to see some  persuasive evidence the few areas of damage  Covea 
hadnt accepted it was liable for had led to the £80,000 price reduction.  Unfortunately for 
Mrs K Ive seen no such evidence. So, whilst I sympathise with Mrs K that she had to take a 
reduced price for the house,  and that her tenants had left it in a less than desirable condition,  
I cant fairly say either was the result  of any failing on the part of Covea. 
Ref: DRN11409997I know that Mrs K recently said that she wanted to receive a refund of her premium but Im 
unable to require  Covea to do that. Thats because she has had the benefit of cover  for a 
number of years along with having  the benefit  of being able to claim under the policy. I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask Covea  to refund Mrs Ks premium because shes  unhappy it hasnt  
met all of her claims. 
As Ive set out above, there were some areas of damage that fell under the accidental  
damage cover of the policy  which Covea should have properly considered  against  the policy.  
Where those items fell beneath the policy excess,  it shouldve conveyed that to Mrs K.
But all insurance claims, by their very nature, attract a certain degree of trouble and upset; 
thats to be expected. And where  an insurer through its words or deeds makes an already 
stressful situation worse  this service can require it to pay compensation to a consumer. So 
Ive thought here about whether Covea should be paying any compensation to Mrs K. Most 
of the trouble and upset experienced by Mrs K was a result of most of her items  of damage 
not being covered by the policy  terms and as a result of having to accept a lower price  for 
her property; I dont think either  of these were additional stresses  that were caused  by 
Coveas actions such that I should  reasonable require it to pay any compensation to Mrs K. 
Putting things  right
Subject to Mrs K providing the evidence of the repairs she had done and the costs she paid 
out  in respect of items 1 and 2  Covea should settle these claims (less  the policy 
excesses). And, if Mrs K wants  Covea to consider the claim for a leak to the flat roof further 
(item 4) she needs to provide it with evidence  of the felt removal  and the water ingress so it 
can consider this claim further.  Covea will need  to add interest at this services  usual rate of 
8% simple  per year on any amounts it pays Mrs K from the date she settled any invoices to 
the date it settles  my award. 
If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs K how much  its taken off. It should also give Mrs K a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and to require Covea Insurance  plc to 
take the steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1140999