complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out to cover  Mr Ws 
mortgage and further advances. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC,  trading as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester (C&G) at the time, mis-sold  him PPI. 
background 
Mr W took out a PPI policy to cover  his mortgage  in 1999. Then in 2001, Mr W took out a 
further advance  and amended his PPI policy to cover  the further borrowing. A few years 
later, in 2003,  he took out a second further  advance and again increased the level of cover 
under his PPI policy. 
The policy couldve  covered  his repayments for up to 12 months in the event he had an 
accident, was off sick from work or made redundant. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided this policy wasnt mis-sold,  and Ill explain why.
Mr W says he wasnt  aware he had PPI and that it was never mentioned  to him. But looking  
at the evidence available from 1999, 2001  and 2003  I think C&G made it clear that Mr W 
didnt have to take out PPI and he chose to take it out and subsequently increase the cover 
offered. I say this because Ive seen Mr Ws mortgage application from 1999 and his further 
advance application  in 2001. In both these applications there  are separate sections for PPI 
with two equally prominent options  to either  accept or decline  the cover. Mr W has ticked the 
option to agree to the cover on both forms. He also completed and signed separate PPI 
application forms in both 1999  and 2001.  
I have also seen Mr Ws further  advance  application  from 2003,  and although  I can see that 
he was again  presented  with two equally prominent options to accept or decline PPI, I cant 
see what option was selected. But I have seen  a completed and signed separate PPI 
application form from 2003. So I think its likely  he also ticked  to accept the cover on his 
2003 application, and by signing  the separate PPI application form Mr W again confirmed he 
wanted PPI at that time.
So I think Mr W was aware the PPI was optional and he chose to take it out in 1999 and to 
increase his cover in 2001 and 2003   but as these events took place  so long ago, I can 
understand if he cant remember this now. 
Mr W says C&G didnt  advise him to take out any of the PPI policy.  But C&G says that it did. 
As things  stand, there isnt enough information to determine this point. But being  able to do 
so isnt crucial to the outcome because, had C&G recommended the policy on each 
Ref: DRN11360402occasion, I think it wouldve been a suitable  recommendation  to have made for the reasons I 
set out below. As a result, Ive considered the complaint on the same basis  as C&G.  And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  in 1999, 2001 and 2003, I think  that PPI was 
suitable for him at each of these times.  For example, having  looked at the relevant available 
policy documents, I havent seen anything persuasive to suggest he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the policy.  
Mr W says he would have had little savings when he took out PPI in and around 1999, 2001 
and 2003, and that money wouldve been tight.  He also says he wouldve had some  sick pay 
but this wouldve been limited. The PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the 
event he needed  to claim and wouldve covered his monthly mortgage and further advance  
repayments for the period  of claim.  Considering Mr W had borrowed money  secured against  
him home, having  this protection in place gave him some additional  security  against losing 
his home  in the event he was suddenly unable to work. And based on what  Mr W has told us 
about his circumstances around this time,  I think he had a need for this type of cover.   
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr W about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  out to take out PPI on all three occasions - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
So I dont  think better information would have  put him off taking out the policy.  
Mr W says he feels  the PPI was mis-sold  to him because when he fell behind on his 
payments he wasnt told he could claim on the policy.  But as Ive outlined above  I think Mr W 
chose to take out PPI so he wouldve known he had this policy.  Its possible that at the time 
he needed to claim,  he had forgotten about it, but I cant say that this was C&Gs fault. This 
also doesnt change  my decision on whether the policy was mis-sold. 
This means  Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the policy to Mr W. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the policy to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premiums) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premiums  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, including what  hes said about £84 being 
incorrectly deducted from the offer Lloyds made him to refund the amount of commission  
and profit share he paid that was above 50% of the PPI premiums. Ive asked Lloyds about 
this and it has agreed that this was incorrectly deducted. So Lloyds has offered to 
recalculate Mr Ws offer to include the amount incorrectly deducted and 8% interest  on this 
amount. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. I understand it has already sent Mr W some  
Ref: DRN11360403of this money, but as I set out above, Lloyds must recalculate Mr Ws offer and pay him the 
additional money due.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1136040