K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the rate of interest charged  on his credit  account with Shop Direct
Finance Company Limited and about their customer service.
background 
Mr H has a catalogue shopping account  with Shop  Direct.
In June 2018, Mr H contacted Shop Direct to ask them to review the interest  rate being 
charged on his account  (59.9%  APR). He believes the rate of interest  shouldnt  be that high.
He says he didnt  receive  a substantive  response until more than six months later.  And hes 
not happy that Shop Direct are continuing to charge 59.9% interest.
Mr H also contacted Shop Direct in September 2018 with a query about a pair of jeans hed 
bought about a week previously for £80. Hed noticed the same  jeans  were  now on offer at 
£60. He asked  Shop Direct whether they would credit £20 to his account or he should return 
the jeans  within the 28-day return period - and buy a new pair at £60.
Mr H didnt get a response to that query until a month and a half later. And this simply 
referred him to a freephone telephone  number  to call.
In January 2019, Mr H made a complaint to Shop Direct about the interest rate and about 
their failure to provide good customer service  in answering his queries. He also complained  
about Shop  Directs  28-day payment cycle, saying  that hed been  told previously that he 
could change the date on which his payments were due.
Shop Direct upheld  Mr Hs complaint. They admitted their customer  service had been poor. 
And they offered him £20 in compensation. As a gesture of goodwill, they also cancelled  a 
£12 charge that had been applied to Mr Hs account  for a missed payment.
2
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Shop  Direct had done  anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
Because I disagreed with the view taken  by our investigator, I decided  to make a provisional 
decision before  I issue  my final decision. This gave both Mr H and Shop Direct an 
opportunity to comment on my thinking and/or provide any further  information  or evidence 
before I make  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with the 28-day payment cycle first. Shop Direct have  a standard  payment 
cycle for all their customers. The terms and conditions  Mr H signed  up to when he 
Ref: DRN16783882took the account make it clear what the cycle is. Its not unreasonable  for them to 
stick to that cycle.
I understand Mr H told Shop Direct  one of their employees had told him he could 
change the payment due date. Shop Direct couldnt  find any evidence of that 
conversation.
To be frank, it would be very odd if a Shop Direct  employee had intentionally given Mr 
H that impression.  Their payment processes and procedures are very clear.
If Mr H did get the impression he could switch the payment date, I can only assume 
that was the result of some confusion and/or mis-communication. And in the absence  
of any record of that conversation it would be difficult for me to say Shop Direct were  
wholly or primarily responsible for any misunderstanding.
The terms and conditions  relating to Mr Hs account  and the credit  agreement he 
signed at the outset   are clear that Shop Direct  can vary the rate of interest  charged  
on the account, for commercial reasons.
Theres nothing wrong with that in principle  businesses are allowed to vary interest  
rates. We would expect  Shop Direct to make it clear  at the outset that they reserved 
the right to vary the interest rate  which they did in this case. Its in the terms and 
conditions and its in the credit agreement Mr H signed.
Wed also expect them to give notice of any planned increase in rates. And to make 
sure in these circumstances that customers were aware of the options they had  
including settling their account at the current rates of interest.
Shop Directs records show that they sent a notice of variation (NOV) to Mr H in 
November 2017,  and they say his interest rates  increased to 59.9% after that. They  
cant provide a copy of the specific NOV  sent to Mr H because they retain copies only 
for a limited  period. But they use a standard format which  clearly  explains the 
customers options.
On balance, Im satisfied Mr H was sent that NOV in November 2017  and that he had 
the option, at that point, of making an arrangement with Shop Direct to pay off and 
close his account  within a reasonable time frame before the higher rates were 
implemented.
So, I cant see that Shop Direct have done  anything wrong in increasing Mr Hs 
interest rate for what theyve referred  to as commercial reasons.
I do think though  that Shop Directs customer service, in response to Mr Hs queries 
about his account, has been  below an acceptable level. Ill explain why.
Shop Direct have  admitted  some failings in the way they handled  Mr Hs queries. 
Theyve apologised for that  which is to their credit  and theyve offered Mr H what  
amounts to £32 (£20 plus the cancelled  £12 fee).
Its not entirely clear  in Shop  Directs correspondence  with Mr H  and with us - 
exactly what theyre admitting to. However, Ill try to set out below what  I think  went 
wrong.
Ref: DRN16783883In June 2018, Mr H asked Shop Direct  to review his interest rate and explain  to him 
why it was 59.9%.
Shop Direct have  persistently  said to Mr H that they keep his account   and interest 
rate  periodically under review. And theyve  told him when the next review  is due.
I dont think theres anything wrong with that, in itself. But I think  theyve 
misunderstood to a certain extent what Mr H was asking  them  to do. As I understand 
it, he wanted someone with sufficient  seniority at Shop  Direct  to check  that the 
interest rate was correct   and that, in effect, the routine reviews hadnt come  up 
with the wrong answer.
I think it would have  been reasonable enough  for Shop Direct to tell Mr H they werent 
going to do this  that, in essence, they would rely on the criteria they use for the 
routine reviews and couldnt see any obvious anomaly in the way his rate had been  
calculated.
But they didnt  actually do this at first. In February 2019, Mr H got a final response to 
his complaint - and a further  communication  after that - which  explained Shop Directs 
view in more detail.  But before then  and for more than six months after he first 
enquired  Shop Direct persisted in simply telling Mr H when the next routine review 
of his account was due.
It was also only in February 2019  that Mr H had a full explanation of why his interest 
rate had increased in November 2017. In the follow-up to their final response,  Shop 
Direct told Mr H that their periodic reviews ensure the interest rate is appropriate  for 
the account, bearing in mind how it is used  and /or information received from Credit  
Reference Agencies.
Mr H says his credit  record is good.  We havent  seen  his credit file, but if hes right,  
then he can assume Shop  Direct  increased the interest rate because  of the way hes 
using his account.
So, after Mr H made his enquiry in June  2018,  he had no reply  at all from Shop Direct 
until almost three weeks later. It then took Shop  Direct  a further six months  or more  to 
provide a full response. And that came only after Mr H made  a formal complaint. Im 
satisfied that delay caused Mr H a degree of stress and inconvenience.
Im not going  to hold Shop  Direct  entirely responsible for this delay. It did take them 
three weeks to respond to Mr H at all, but when  they did so they referred  him to a 
freephone number  which  he could ring with his questions. Rather  than ring that 
number, Mr H simply emailed back to the same address  chasing  a substantive 
response and asking them to refer the matter to the correct department.
So, Mr H has to bear some responsibility  for the matter  not being  sorted  out sooner. 
However, Shop Direct knew throughout this period that they had a customer  with a 
legitimate and reasonable concern about  his interest  rate and the way it was 
reviewed. And they failed to provide a satisfactory answer to Mr Hs queries for more 
than six months.
Ref: DRN16783884Im also satisfied that Shop Direct didnt deal effectively with Mr Hs query about the 
jeans in September 2018.
Mr H was aware he could  effectively get the same jeans for £20 less by returning the 
pair hed bought  at £80 within the return period (28 days) and buying another  pair at 
the sale price. In my view he was understandably asking Shop Direct whether  it might 
be more convenient  for everyone if they simply refunded  him the £20.
There is an argument that Shop Direct  might  have insisted Mr H paid the £80 he was 
initially willing to pay for the jeans  although they might have had more trouble 
justifying any refusal  to provide a refund if Mr H returned the item within  the period 
allowed.
Its certainly not acceptable that Shop Direct failed to respond  at all to Mr H for 
around a month and a half (taking him well outside  the 28-day period for returns)  and 
then only referred him to a freephone number for another department.
In this case again, Mr H didnt get a full response  from Shop Direct until February  
2019  around  five months after hed raised his enquiry. When he did get a response, 
Shop Direct gave  him £20 to reflect the delay in getting back  to him. As Mr H has 
pointed out, this is the £20 he would have had anyway if hed returned the jeans and 
bought another pair at the sale price.
To summarise, Shop Direct  failed  to respond  to Mr Hs two queries in anything like a 
timely manner. In one case, its arguable that this directly cost Mr H £20. In both 
cases  but particularly in respect  of his request for a review of his interest rate  Mr 
H suffered a degree  of stress and inconvenience  for over six months and around  five 
months respectively.
Shop Direct have  implied, in their communications with us, that one of Mr Hs main  
concerns was the fact he had to wait 35 minutes on hold when he rang one of the 
freephone numbers  hed been given. Our investigator also seems to have  given some  
emphasis to this incident in her view on the case.
To be clear, I dont think that was one of Mr Hs main concerns. Being on hold for 35 
minutes would  no doubt  have been  annoying  at the time, but if that were the only 
issue, I wouldnt be suggesting more  compensation for Mr H.
Hes been fairly clear that his concern is that Shop Direct failed to answer two 
straightforward queries  about his account until around five months and six months 
respectively after he made them. And I dont think anyone is disputing the fact that it 
did take that long. Or that taking that long is poor customer service.
Shop Direct have  in effect waived one £12 missed payment  fee to reflect Mr Hs 
trouble and upset.  I dont  think thats enough in this case given the length of the 
avoidable delays  and the nature of Mr Hs queries.
I have to bear in mind  that the interest rate Mr H has been  charged wasnt  in fact 
inappropriate or unfair  given the terms and conditions he signed  up to. In other  words,  
Shop Directs failure to respond  in a timely  manner  hasnt led to a delay in a reduction 
of the interest  rate.
Ref: DRN16783885However, the uncertainty over a lengthy period has no doubt caused Mr H some 
worry and stress that he might have been spared. In my view, £100  would be fair and 
reasonable compensation for that. Ill allow that Shop Direct have already effectively 
paid £12 in waiving the missed payment fee. But I think the £20 should be additional 
to that to compensate Mr H for the £20 he lost on the purchase of the jeans.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr H nor Shop Direct have provided any more information, evidence  or comment in 
response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Although Ive had no response to my provisional decision from Shop Direct or Mr H, Ive 
considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Im still satisfied that Shop Direct did nothing  unfair or 
unreasonable in the way they charged interest  on Mr Hs account or in sticking  to their 
preferred cycle of payments.
However, Im also still satisfied that Shop Direct  provided poor customer service  in dealing  
with Mr Hs queries. And my view on the appropriate compensation for this remains 
unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in 
part.
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited must  pay Mr H a further £88 (in addition to the £32 
already paid)  in compensation for his trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1678388