K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that MEM Consumer  Finance  Limited (trading  as Payday UK) gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay. He asks for compensation for his losses.  Mr M is 
represented by a claims management  company.
background 
Mr M took out five loans  with Payday UK between  2010 and 2012.  
Our adjudicator said our rules dont allow us to consider Mr Ms complaint about loans 1 to 3. 
There was a break of about six months  between  Mr M repaying loan 3 and taking out loan 4.
Our adjudicator said it wasnt wrong  for Payday  UK to offer loan 4. But it shouldnt have 
offered him loan 5. There were signs Mr M had trouble repaying  loan 4  he deferred 
repayment four times. And he asked for loan 5 a week  after repaying loan 4 and the amount 
was significantly more.  Payday UK was aware that Mr M had shown similar difficulties when 
repaying the earlier loans.
The adjudicator said Payday UK should refund  interest and charges on loan 5, with 8% 
interest, and remove negative information about it from Mr Ms credit  file. 
Payday UK agreed. Mr M didnt agree saying hed had more than 20 loans  with Payday UK 
and was entitled to more  compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr M took out loan 4 in October 2011.  Hed repaid his previous  loan with Payday UK in 
March 2011. Mr M told Payday UK his monthly income was £2,300. The repayment due later 
in October was £337.50. Mr M deferred repayment four times, repaying loan 4 in February  
2012.
Mr M took out loan 5 about a week later. The repayment of £837.50 was due in March  2012. 
He was unable  to repay the loan. Mr M entered  a debt management arrangement  in May 
2012. He repaid loan 5 in instalments, making the last payment in August 2015.
Payday UK needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  suggest  that Payday UK should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
Ref: DRN11943272Given Mr Ms stated  income, the amount of loan 4 and the break  since  hed last borrowed 
from Payday UK I dont  think it was wrong  for Payday UK to offer loan 4 to Mr M. I dont think  
it had any reason to think Mr M would  have difficulty repaying loan 4.
But I dont think Payday UK should  have offered loan 5 to Mr M. Mr M had deferred 
repayment of loan 4 on four occasions. He asked for loan 5 less than a week  after repaying 
loan 4 and asked for a larger amount. I think Payday  UK should have known that further  
lending wasnt sustainable.
I dont think Payday UK should have offered loan 5 to Mr M. So it should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Payday UK to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Mr M says he took out about 20 loans with Payday UK. He hasnt provided  evidence of this. 
The information provided by Payday UK is consistent with Mr M taking out five loans. I cant 
reasonably look into Mr Ms concerns without evidence there were  more  loans.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold part of this complaint. I order MEM Consumer Finance Limited  to 
take the steps and pay the compensation set out above, as its agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1194327