K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs V. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs V was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Vs complaint. This is because of Mrs Vs unusual  employment 
situation. Although  probably not self-employed,  her profession was such that she was likely 
to always have work available to her, although she was free to decline work for a period (in 
which case she would not be paid).  If she did reject work, the insurer  would have regarded 
her as voluntarily unemployed and so she wouldnt be able to make a claim. So the 
employment cover element of the PPI was unlikely to be of any use to her. I dont  think  shed 
have taken the PPI if the terms had been  properly explained to her  which I think is unlikely.  
So I think Mrs V has lost out from FICLs failings in this case. 
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mrs V in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs V would have owed when she closed her credit  
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs V owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs V made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs V would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN19807542The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs V would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs V 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs V paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs V 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs V what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs V a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs V that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mrs Vs complaint. I require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1980754