K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says Casheuronet UK LLC (Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans and a running account (flex credit) facility 
Quick Quid provided to Mrs H from June 2010 onwards. Mrs Hs last loan was provided in 
May 2015. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Hs complaint and thought  that the loans from loan two onwards 
shouldnt have been provided to her. 
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  As this is the case and the parties  havent  
been able to resolve the compliant informally, the complaint  has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mrs H could repay  the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mrs H could repay  her loans in a sustainable manner. And I think  that this is wider  
Ref: DRN10302242than simply assessing  whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.  Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs H, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mrs H was unlikely to have  been  able to make 
the required loan repayments in a sustainable  manner for the loans from loan two onwards.  I 
say this because:
the loan payments for most of the loans from loan two onwards took up a significant 
proportion of Mrs Hs income. In these circumstances,  there was a significant risk 
that Mrs H wouldnt have  been  able to meet her existing  commitments without having 
to borrow again. Indeed the monthly payments  required on the hypothetical  
repayment schedule  on the credit agreement  for the flex credit facility  couldnt have 
been sustainably  repaid on Quick  Quids own calculations of Mrs Hs disposable 
income.
by the time of loans four to six and loan eight Mrs H had owed Quick Quid  money for 
a number of months. So Quick  Quid  ought to have realised it was more  likely than 
not Mrs H was having to borrow  further  to cover the hole the repayment of her 
previous loans left in her finances  and that Mrs Hs indebtedness  was increasing 
unsustainably.
Mrs H was indebted to Quick Quid for a period of around three years.  So she wasnt 
making any real inroads  to the amount  she owed  Quick  Quid.  And Mrs H had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  an increasing debt to Quick Quid over 
an extended period.
I think that Mrs H lost out because Quick  Quid provided these loans because:
they had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing  her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the extended period of time Mrs H owed  Quick Quid money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding this complaint and Quick  Quid should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
Ref: DRN10302243refund  all interest and charges Mrs H paid on all the loans provided from loan two 
onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mrs H owed Quick Quid money  for on loans two to six means  that 
any information still recorded (if there is any) about these loans on her credit file is 
adverse. So all entries for loans  two to six (should there be any) should be removed 
from Mrs Hs credit  file;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Hs credit file as result of loan 
seven and the flex credit  facility.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1030224