K822xcomplaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs C applied for a credit  card in a branch meeting in 2004. The PPI was added to the credit 
card at the same time and covered her repayments  if she couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life and critical illness  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mrs C disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Mrs C that the PPI was optional and got her agreement  
before adding it. She says she wasnt aware  it had been added. While I cant be sure what 
was said in the meeting when the PPI was sold, Ive looked closely  at what  Mrs Cs said,  
together with all of the information  I have.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit card application Mrs C signed and dated. It included  
a clear and prominent  box to mark if she wanted  PPI and a separate box next to it for 
another insurance product  it was selling. Theres a printed cross in the PPI box, but not in 
the other box. If Halifax had generally been adding insurance without telling its customers I 
might have expected  both to be selected. Instead I think  the application, together  with 
experience of how Halifax sold PPI at the time, suggest there was a discussion between 
Mrs C and the adviser about insurance.  And that she chose to take PPI, knowing it was 
optional.
I think that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs C. This means  it had to look into whether 
PPI was right for her. I dont know if it did that. But, from what Halifax  has sent me and what 
Mrs Cs told me about her circumstances at the time of the sale,  I think  the PPI was right for 
her in any case because:
She was eligible for the PPI. And I dont think she was affected  by any of the main 
things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
She says, in her PPI questionnaire, that she was only entitled  to statutory sick pay. 
The PPI benefits  would have paid out for up to 12 months per disability claim and 
covered her for unemployment  too. And, unlike  the family  help she says she could 
have relied on, the PPI benefits  were guaranteed. Overall, Im satisfied the PPI would 
have been useful to her. 
Ref: DRN17870332Theres nothing to suggest Mrs C couldnt  afford the PPI. And, if she no longer 
wanted it, the PPI was flexible  enough  that she could  have  cancelled  it at no extra  
cost.
Halifax also had to make  sure it told Mrs C enough about the PPI for her to make up her own 
mind about  whether it was right for her. And it had to do this in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Mrs C or how well 
it was explained.  But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for her, I dont think  
better information would  have  made a difference to her decision to take it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs C now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1787033