K820x#14The complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) turned down his critical 
illness claim, cancelled  his policy, refunded all premiums paid and amended the sums 
assured on his life policies.  
What happened
Mr S applied for a decreasing term life assurance and critical illness  policy in September  
2014 with Aviva. The policy began  on 1 October  2014  and was for a term of 29 years. The 
policy was taken out when Mr S re-mortgaged his property and the initial  sum assured was 
£160,323. Mr S applied for the policy in person  at his local bank,  and the policy was sold by 
the bank on a non-advised basis.  
Mr S also had two other life assurance policies with Aviva, both taken  out in March 2010  a 
level term policy with a sum assured of £120,000 and a decreasing  term policy with an initial  
sum assured of £154,343.  
Mr S was, unfortunately,  diagnosed  with Multiple  Sclerosis (MS) in September 2018  and 
submitted a claim to Aviva under his critical illness policy. The claim was turned  down.  Aviva  
said that when  Mr S applied for the policy he was asked  questions about his personal 
medical history that were answered  incorrectly. These were: 
Have you ever had Multiple Sclerosis, Optic  Neuritis, Cerebral Palsy,  Paralysis,  Parkinsons 
Disease or any other disorder of the Nervous System (Brain,  Spinal Cord or Nerves)?
Have you ever had blurred or double vision, numbness, loss of feeling  or muscle power, 
balance problems, persistent pins and needles  or facial pain other than dental  pain serious  
enough to seek  medical advice?
Apart from any conditions  youve already told us about, within  the last five years have you 
had any problem with your eyes or ears which isnt fully corrected by glasses,  contact lenses 
or hearing  aids?
Apart from any conditions  youve already told us about within  the last five years have you 
been referred to a hospital or clinic  or advised to undergo a scan, test or investigation?
Aviva said Mr S has a significant history  of problems with suspected  recurrent optic  neuritis  
and has previously been referred to a clinic to undergo numerous different scans, tests  and 
investigations. It said it asked clear and unambiguous questions relating to this, which  he 
should have answered differently. Aviva said if Mr S had answered the questions correctly  it 
wouldnt have offered a policy on the same terms, so it declined the claim, cancelled  the 
policy and refunded all premiums paid. 
Mr S complained to Aviva and said his medical  information was passed  onto the salesperson 
at the bank. He said although he had tests and scans, he hadnt been diagnosed with 
anything. Mr S said as recently as August 2018,  his neurologist thought  his symptoms were 
most likely caused by a migraine.  
Aviva didnt uphold  Mr Ss complaint. It outlined the information from Mr Ss medical  records  
that it says Mr S should have disclosed.  These were: 
Ref: DRN149397622010  seen on three occasions in an Ophthalmology clinic for acute blurred vision to 
his left eye and Mr Ss history means this was suggestive of optic  neuritis. 
2012  emergency appointment at an Ophthalmology clinic in November with vision  
loss, blurred vision and loss of colour. Recurring optic  neuritis  was diagnosed and 
Mr S was referred  for an MRI and follow up.
2013  clinic appointment to review an MRI scan. Noted  there were now three 
episodes of blurred  vision  with ongoing  symptoms. An episode  of numbness in 
Mr Ss left arm, for which he had nerve conduction tests, is also mentioned.  
2014  seen in May at an Ophthalmology clinic for a post-MRI review. No symptoms 
were being experienced and Mr S was discharged.  
Aviva said if it had known about Mr Ss history of sight problems and the previous  episode  of 
numbness and that hed been investigated at hospital in the last 5 years, it would not have 
offered the contract on the same terms. It said regardless of the underlying  cause, the 
symptoms warranted  disclosure.  
Aviva also said it decided  to review the two life assurance policies taken out in 2010, in view 
of the medical  information it received. It said Mr S should have answered yes to the following 
question and should have told it about his episode of optic neuritis and blurred vision which  
was diagnosed in 2004:  
Have you ever had, received advice for or had any medical or surgical  treatment or 
investigation for any of the following:
-Multiple Sclerosis, Optic Neuritis, Parkinsons Disease or Alzheimers Disease
-Numbness, paralysis, loss of feeling, blurred  or double vision.
It said if it had been  aware of his medical history  it would have been unable  to offer the same  
terms and would have  charged a higher premium  for his cover. Aviva said Mr S should  have 
paid a monthly premium  of £14.72  instead  of £12.68 for the level term policy, so its reduced 
his sum assured  from £120,000 to £103,370.  And Mr S should have paid a monthly premium 
of £16.05 rather than £13.27 for the decreasing term policy.  And so the initial  sum assured of 
£154,343, which reduces  each year in line with his mortgage, has now been reduced to 
£127,609. 
Aviva also said it hadnt  communicated with Mr S very well and should  have issued 
endorsements on his policy  earlier. It offered  Mr S £400 by way of an apology.  
When Mr S contacted this service  he confirmed tests were  carried out before the policy  was 
taken out, but at the time he didnt know what was wrong with him. He said he disclosed 
medical information to the salesperson at the bank,  who filled out the form on his behalf, and 
was told there was no need  to disclose the tests because  they had come back negative. He 
said he disclosed asthma on the application form, which  was a diagnosed condition,  
whereas the scans  were  just investigations and nothing was found. Mr S also said that Aviva  
told him during  an earlier phone  call that he would have received  a settlement under the 
policy if he had disclosed the various  negative tests.  Mr S said some  of the medical 
appointment dates  outlined  by Aviva were outside  the three or five year window asked about 
in the relevant questions.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Mr Ss medical records included  
information about tests and investigations  about blurred vision  from as early as 2004,  but 
particularly in 2010, 2012, and 2014. In relation to the critical illness policy, he said Mr S 
should have answered Yes to the medical  questions highlighted by Aviva. He said a 
Ref: DRN14939763qualifying misrepresentation had been  made  and he thought  it was fair for Aviva to say the 
misrepresentation was deliberate / reckless. He said it acted fairly when it cancelled  the 
critical illness part of the policy  from the beginning and returned  the premiums.  
In relation to the two earlier life policies,  our investigator said Aviva asked clear questions  
and the medical  information indicates Mr S should have answered Yes to the question  
about vision problems  or undergoing tests. And he should have known it was important to 
Aviva that these were  answered correctly and a fair remedy was for Aviva  to apply a 
proportionate remedy, as it has done. 
Mr S didnt agree with what  our investigator said so this has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made,  
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say whether Aviva acted  fairly when it said Mr S made misrepresentations in relation to 
all three polices, when  it classified the misrepresentations  as deliberate  / reckless,  when  
it voided the critical illness policy and amended the sums  assured  for the life policies and 
when it declined Mr Ss claim.
In reviewing the actions  taken in relation to the critical illness policy  taken out in 2014,  Ive 
considered the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA), 
which mirrors  this services longstanding  approach  to cases  like this. It sets out the roles and 
duties of the consumer and insurer when  entering  into an insurance  contract. CIDRA places 
the consumer  under a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation (i.e. to 
say something untrue  or misleading), provided the insurer  has asked a clear  question.  If the 
consumer doesnt  take reasonable care to answer  questions accurately it sets out the 
remedies available  to the insurer.
I first of all looked at whether the questions asked by Aviva  in 2014 were  clear and 
unambiguous. And, having read the application  documents, Im satisfied  that the questions 
were phrased clearly enough  that a reasonable consumer should have known what 
information was being requested. 
Im aware that Mr S says he didnt complete the form himself, that the member  of staff at the 
bank helped him do that. But Mr S hasnt raised  any concerns about  his understanding of 
what information he was being asked to provide.  So, Im satisfied that even if someone else 
helped him, theres  nothing to suggest  Mr S wasnt aware of and understood the questions  
that were being  asked.   
Having looked  at Mr Ss medical records, Im satisfied that a misrepresentation was 
made. Ill explain why. 
Mr S was asked four questions at the application stage that Aviva said were  answered 
incorrectly. One of these asked whether Mr S ever had, amongst  other  things, optic  
neuritis. Mr S answered no, but his medical  records show that he attended  the 
Ophthalmology department at his local hospital in November 2012  and the consultant 
Ref: DRN14939764concluded that he most likely had a recurrence of optic  neuritis  in the right eye. Mr S was 
again seen at the Ophthalmology department  in January 2013  for possible recurrent optic 
neuritis, which had not resolved. And again in April 2013 for possible optic  neuritis. On 
that occasion tests  confirmed  he had reduced conduction in his optic  nerve, consistent 
with demyelination.  Mr S was seen again  in May 2014 and the consultants  letter  referred 
to two previous  episodes  of optic neuritis in his right eye. Mr S hasnt said he told the 
salesperson that hed experienced episodes of optic neuritis  and he ought to have known 
he was answering  this question incorrectly. 
Mr S was also asked whether hes ever had blurred or double  vision  or persistent pins 
and needles. His medical records show that all of the appointments referred to above 
happened because  Mr S was experiencing problems with his eyes,  including his vision 
feeling misty or blurred. Mr Ss records  also show that in 2008 he had some sensory 
symptoms in his left hand and intermittently has tingling in his fingers since then, 
particularly in the ring and little fingers.  So Im satisfied  Mr S ought  to have known he 
answered this question incorrectly. 
Mr S was also asked whether, in the last five years, hed had any problems with his eyes, 
not corrected  by glasses or contact lenses, or if he been referred  in the last five years  to 
a hospital or clinic or advised to undergo scans, tests or investigations.  The medical 
appointments mentioned above all happened  within a two to three year period before Mr 
S took out the policy. And, as already mentioned, they refer to problems with his eyes. 
And Mr S had a number  of tests carried out during these  appointments, including  MRIs. 
So, Im satisfied Mr S should  also have  answered this question  differently. 
I know that Mr S said the various tests hadnt  found that there  was anything wrong with 
him, that they were all negative. He said he provided  any relevant information, such  as 
asthma, where a definite diagnosis had been  made.  Its certainly the case that the MRI 
scans came  back  as normal. But the questions werent asking Mr S to only provide 
medical information about diagnosed  conditions. They  asked, in a number of different 
ways, for him to disclose specific symptoms  symptoms that he had clearly been 
experiencing for a number of years  prior to taking out the policy and which should have 
been disclosed to Aviva in September 2014, when the application was made. 
Having seen the underwriting criteria and the underwriting statement provided by Aviva,  
Im satisfied that if Aviva had known about the problems Mr S was having with his vision,  
as well as the tingling he was intermittently experiencing  in his fingers, it would not have  
offered Mr S a critical illness  policy  that included cover for MS. This means the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying  one, as Aviva would have taken a different course of 
action if it had all the relevant  medical  information.  
Aviva classified the misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless and I think  this was fair in 
the circumstances. I say this because Mr S had been experiencing visual  problems for 
some years prior to taking out the policy and hed been seen by a specialist on at least  
six occasions in the five years prior to the policy being taken out. And the questions  
posed by Aviva were  asked in a number of different  ways  and clearly captured  the visual 
problems Mr S was having.  Mr S also had the opportunity, away from the bank, to 
confirm that the answers he provided  were  correct, when Aviva sent him the policy  
documents to check. So Im satisfied that Mr S should have  known the answers he 
provided were incorrect and that Aviva would have considered  his medical history to be 
relevant when deciding whether to offer him a policy.  
Ref: DRN14939765I dont intend to make any findings  here about  what Mr S may or may not have been 
advised to disclose by the salesperson  at the bank.  But I realise  he said he was told by 
the salesperson  that he didnt need to disclose any negative tests that he had. While  the 
tests coming back as negative may add some context as to why he answered no to the 
question that specifically mentioned tests and investigations, it doesnt explain why the 
three other questions about blurred vision, optic neuritis and the tingling in his fingers 
were answered incorrectly. 
Given all of the above, Im satisfied  Aviva acted fairly when it treated the 
misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless. Under CIDRA Aviva  is entitled to cancel the 
policy from the start date and keep the premiums  paid. But I can see it has returned the 
premiums and I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Ive also looked  at whether Aviva acted fairly when it changed the sums  assured for the two 
life policies taken  out in March 2010. 
Mr S was asked whether  he had ever had, received advice about or had treatment or 
investigation for optic neuritis or blurred or double vision.  Im satisfied the question was 
clearly phrased,  but I dont agree with Aviva  that Mr S should have answered Yes in 
relation to whether he had optic neuritis.  
Mr Ss medical records show that in April 2004 he was seen by an Optometrist  after his right 
eye became grainy  and hazy  a month  prior to the appointment. He was also seen by 
Ophthalmic Services in February  2010 about an unexplained drop in vision in his left eye 
over the previous week and further  investigation was suggested. But optic  neuritis wasnt  
mentioned at this stage  in his medical  records. So Im satisfied  that when Mr S took out the 
policy in March 2010, he clearly had problems  with a drop in vision very shortly before taking 
out the policy and also earlier in 2004  and so should have informed Aviva under the blurred 
vision part of the question. 
However, although I dont think Mr S answered the question about optic  neuritis incorrectly, 
this doesnt make any difference to the outcome. Im satisfied that if Aviva  had known about 
the loss of the quality of vision in his eyes  on two occasions, with one of the occasions being 
only a month  or so before the policies were  taken out, then it would more likely than not have 
done things differently. Aviva said it would have offered the policy  on different terms and 
charged a slightly  higher  premium for both policies. And Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly when 
it amended Mr Ss policies later to reflect this, and lowered the sums  assured on both 
policies. 
When Mr S complained to this service, he mentioned a phone  call he had with Aviva 
when he was in the process  of submitting his claim where he said he was told by its 
agent that if he had disclosed the negative test results, then he would most likely have 
received a settlement from Aviva. But, regardless of what  was said in the phone call, Mr 
S would not have received a settlement even if he disclosed  the negative  tests. This is 
because Aviva would still have asked for relevant medical records  at the claim stage and 
so Mr Ss full medical history, in relation  to his eyesight and the tingling in his fingers,  
would have been disclosed to Aviva and it would have become  aware  of the other issues, 
such as optic neuritis,  that werent  disclosed at the application stage. So even if Mr S had 
disclosed the negative  test results, the outcome would be the same. 
Mr S also said he contacted Aviva at some point prior to the claim to increase  the sum 
assured on his policy. And he said no issues  were raised then and he thinks they ought 
Ref: DRN14939766to have been raised at that point  if there  was a problem.  But I dont agree. Insurers will 
rely on information provided by consumers at the point policies are taken out or sums  
assured are later increased. But, for the most part, they wont  make  enquiries about the 
relevant medical  history  of a consumer until a claim is raised.  They are allowed to rely on 
the information provided by consumers being correct, at the point in time its provided by 
the consumer.  
I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr S finds himself  in and I understand my 
decision will come as a disappointment.  But it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva  to settle a claim 
when I am satisfied that the misrepresentation falls into the deliberate or reckless category. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1493976