K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them 
a packaged bank account,  called  the Ultimate Reward Current  Account (URCA). They paid 
a monthly fee for the account and received several  potential benefits in return.  They think  
that Bank  of Scotland should refund them all the fees they paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and didnt think 
that Bank  of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to them. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their case. So it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ive looked into everything  that Mr and Mrs M and Bank of Scotland  have  told us 
or sent us about the case and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs M had banked with Bank  of Scotland for quite a long time before it sold them the 
URCA. Bank  of Scotland has told us that they opened a fee-free account in 1990 and didnt 
change to the URCA until 2007.  
The main  point of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that they say they wanted to buy insurance 
cover for credit or debit cards  they had with their fee-free account,  but that instead of 
arranging this cover  for them, Bank of Scotland sold them  the URCA. 
The URCA did provide  card cover and also some closely-related benefits such as help with 
the cost of replacing a wallet or passport if stolen  along with a card;  but it also provided 
many other features such as car breakdown  cover  and travel insurance  which  Mr and Mrs M 
say they didnt want or need. So Mr and Mrs M think that Bank  of Scotland  mis-sold them the 
URCA, which they say cost them more then standalone card cover  would have done.
While Mr and Mrs M may well have been  able to buy standalone  card cover for a lower price 
than the URCA,  either through Bank of Scotland or elsewhere, the URCA itself came as a 
package of products  which Bank of Scotland couldnt easily adjust for individual  customers. 
So although  separate  card cover policies may have been available, it doesnt follow 
automatically the Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA  to Mr and Mrs M. 
For me to decide that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs M, I would have to 
be satisfied that it denied them a choice about  keeping their fee-free account, or that it mis-
led them  about  the costs or benefits of the URCA, or that it recommended  the URCA to them  
unreasonably, or that it failed to treat them fairly or reasonably  in some other way. 
Over a decade has passed  since  Bank  of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs M, and not 
surprisingly neither  party has been able to send  us detailed records from the time to show  
Ref: DRN19761462exactly what happened, so I cant tell for sure what took place.  Instead,  I have used  the 
evidence that I do have available to decide  what is most likely to have occurred.
As Mr and Mrs M had held a fee-free  account  for a long time before Bank of Scotland sold 
them the URCA, I think its unlikely that Bank  of Scotland denied  them  a choice to keep that 
account. I think they probably  knew they could have continued without  the URCA if they had 
so wished, with or without  card cover. 
I also think its very likely  that Bank  of Scotland told Mr and Mrs M about the other potential 
benefits of the URCA. Indeed, Mr and Mrs M seem to have accepted  that they knew  about  
these benefits.  I also think that Bank of Scotland probably told Mr and Mrs M how much they 
would have to pay for the URCA. So I dont  think that Bank of Scotland  mis-led Mr and 
Mrs M about  the URCAs potential benefits or its cost.  
 
Mr and Mrs M and Bank of Scotland have  disagreed  about how Bank  of Scotland  sold them  
the URCA.  On our questionnaire,  Mr and Mrs M told us that it did so during a phone call and 
that Bank  of Scotland recommended it to them. Bank of Scotland  has told us that it sold the 
URCA to Mr and Mrs M on an information only  basis during a meeting at one of its 
branches.
In this particular  case, I dont think  its crucial  for me to determine if the sale took place over 
the phone  or in a meeting,  its much more important  for me to consider  what Bank of 
Scotland may have said and done, or not said and done. In either situation, if Bank of 
Scotland recommended the URCA to Mr and Mrs M, then as well as telling them  about  its 
features clearly and fairly and giving them a choice, it would have had to make sure that the 
URCA met their needs. 
Although I cant tell exactly what happened, in fairness to Mr and Mrs M, I have assumed 
that Bank  of Scotland did make a recommendation. Im certainly satisfied that they believe it 
did. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs M wanted  the card cover  that came  with the URCA and I 
understand that they travelled in Europe from time-to-time,  so the travel insurance the URCA 
provided may have  been useful for them. They also drove a car and so may have benefitted 
from the car breakdown cover. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us copies of some  of Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements and I can 
see from these that they sometimes  overdrew their account by quite large amounts. The 
URCA offered lower interest rates on overdrafts than Bank of Scotlands fee-free accounts 
and I think that Mr and Mrs M may have found  the lower interest useful. 
So although  I cant be sure exactly what Bank  of Scotland told Mr and Mrs M, given their 
financial situation I think it would  have been fair and reasonable for Bank of Scotland to 
recommend that they buy the URCA. And I havent seen any other grounds to make me 
think that Bank of Scotland treated  Mr and Mrs M unfairly  or unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs M have  told us that several years after they bought  the URCA, Mr M suffered a 
heart attack  and that Bank of Scotland (or its agent) told them that from then on the travel 
insurance wouldnt cover them for claims arising from this condition.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Ms heart  attack and I hope he is recovering well. But exclusions 
like the one Mr and Mrs M have described are quite common in travel insurance  policies,  
Ref: DRN19761463and this reduction in cover doesnt  mean that Bank of Scotland  had mis-sold the URCA to 
them several years previously. 
Mr and Mrs M have  also told us that quite recently  one of Bank of Scotlands staff told them  
that they would be able to claim their URCA fees back. I dont have many details about this 
conversation and I wont comment on it further.  But I hope  I have  reassured  Mr and Mrs M 
that I have  considered their complaint thoroughly. 
So in summary,  although  I cant tell exactly what happened when Bank of Scotland sold the 
URCA to Mr and Mrs M and I accept that it may not have  got everything  right,  I dont think  
that it treated  them unfairly or unreasonably.  I dont  think that Bank of Scotland  mis-sold the 
URCA to Mr and Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1976146