K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments from his account that he says 
he didnt make.
background
Mr B disputes 30 faster  payments using mobile banking which totalled £3,470 and were 
made between 7 and 14 June 2018. He says that he didnt give his mobile phone or his 
security information to anyone else.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payments  were made using  devices 
registered with the use of one time passcodes  (OTP) sent to Mr Bs mobile phone. And the 
payee mandate for sending the money was also set up using  an OTP. There  had been  
genuine payee mandates set up on 4 and 8 July 2018 from one of the devices used for 
some of the disputed payments. And Mr B had also not reported the missing money then.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He set out a detailed 
timeline of the payments against Mr Bs working  pattern. There were  four devices set up to 
access his account  through  mobile  banking  on the morning of 7 June 2018.  Each  required  
an OTP sent to Mr Bs own mobile.  He hadnt  reported any issues with his phone  and said it 
was in his possession at that time and he thought  he was asleep at home that morning. 
Payments were made that day and continued just with the fourth device set up over the 
following days for different  amounts ranging from £5 to the last one of £500.  Payments  
stopped on 14 June 2018 even though  there was still money in the account. And Mr B 
accepts making payments  to his ex girlfriend  in early July. The device number and IP 
address for those  payments  corresponded  to that for some payments he had disputed.
Mr B who is represented in this complaint didnt agree. He said that the IP addresses  for the 
payments related to locations outside his home area. And he had never been there and one 
transaction was made while he was at work. He said that fraudsters might start small and 
build up. And there was no explanation for why Mr B would have needed to make  30 
payments in this way. He thought that this service  should be doing  more to investigate  the 
person who received the money. And that other people  must have been able to hack into 
his account. Mr B has been badly affected  by what happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN or as here with an OTP. And if 
these payments werent authorised Mr B wouldnt generally be responsible  for them.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Ill need to decide whats  most likely. 
Ill be thinking about whether its reasonable for Santander to hold Mr B responsible for these 
payments. Any criminal  investigation into who received these payments would be something 
Mr B would need to pursue with the police. Ill be thinking about how these payments were 
made and whether Mr B authorised them which might have involved him allowing someone 
else to make them.
Ref: DRN11132912Ive seen the available evidence from Santander  about how the devices used were set up 
and payments were  made using online banking. Im satisfied that these payments were 
authenticated following Santanders  normal security  processes.
The issue  I need to consider is whether Mr B consented to the payments. As I say that 
doesnt necessarily  mean  he had to make the payments himself but that he could have given 
someone access to his account  to make a payment even at times when he was at work.
Mr B has shown  that he finished  work  at 6:10am on 7 June 2018. The information provided 
by Santander  shows that a genuine  cash withdrawal was made from his account  at 07:53 for 
£20 that day. Around that time there was also the activity accessing  his account online. The 
first new device was registered at 8:08am.  And as has been set out that meant that an OTP 
was sent to Mr Bs own phone and had to be input.  As his representatives pointed out the IP 
addresses used to access that device dont seem to correlate to where Mr B was. The first 
payment thats  disputed  was for £50 at 8:13am. To set that new payee up required another 
OTP again sent to Mr Bs number and then input.
Ive seen no evidence  to suggest that Mr Bs own mobile was defective or somehow 
bypassed here. I accept that the setting up of three  further devices to access  his account 
was suspicious.  And it seemed totally unnecessary given that three payments were made 
successfully with the first device. I wont be able to explain that. But what  is clear from the 
evidence is that the last device set up at 10:19am that day was the only one subsequently 
used. And the IP address used that day to set it up was one from a location some distance 
from that used with the first three devices.
What is important though is that the same  device came to be used for genuine payments. 
On 4 and 8 July 2018  it was used to set up payment mandates  to make payments to Mr Bs 
ex girlfriend. A number  of genuine payments were made to her. And the IP address recorded 
for at least some  of those corresponded to that used for some of the disputed  payments. I 
dont know if Mr Bs position is that he was at that location on those days when the genuine 
payments were made.  Or hed allowed them payments  to be made by someone  else.
The other point  I am struggling to understand is why payments stopped on 14 June 2018. 
There was still almost  £1,900 in his account. As Ive established above the device that had 
been used to make payments was still functioning and was later successfully used  to make 
payments to Mr Bs ex girlfriend. And Mr B has said that he didnt notice what had happened  
until with his father they tried but were  unable to access  the account themselves on 13 July 
2018. And then they were told about  the reduced  balance. There  is no evidence that any of 
the credentials were  changed. I have listened to a recording of the call they had with 
Santander on 15 July 2018. Although I know Mr Bs father was unhappy not to be then told 
more when he called I dont conclude he was dealt with inappropriately as he thinks.
While Mr B says he didnt  notice the change in the balance Im finding that difficult to accept. 
He was being paid into that account  on a weekly basis.  He had some direct debit payments 
which based on what his father said on the call he didnt think should have continued and 
may have  been  looking  out for. And he authorised payments of a total of £290 to his ex 
girlfriend over several days.  
I cant speculate on why the disputed payments had this pattern. Or about why Mr B might 
have wanted to make them if I find he consented to them. I can only go on the evidence. And 
we havent got a role in saying what security  processes Santander should have in place  to 
Ref: DRN11132913detect a suspicious pattern of payments.  Those would also only be relevant here if I was to 
find that Mr B didnt consent to and authorise  the payments.
I need to balance all these factors in making  my decision. And I understand Mr Bs position  
and particularly that of his father who represents  him and who just cant see that Mr B would 
have made  payments like this and doubts  the security of Santanders systems. Im afraid  
having considered everything that I dont  find it most  likely  that Mr B had nothing to do with 
these payments and didnt receive  and use these  OTPs.  It may be he gave these details to a 
third party and this meant  the payments were possible. Ive nothing to lead me to find based  
on his account  that he would have  done  this other than willingly.  And that all being the case  
and taking into account all the evidence I find that he consented  to and is fairly responsible  
for the payments. So, I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1113291