K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a Boots advantage card. Miss P says Canada Square  Operations  Limited, Egg at 
the time,  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss P says she wasnt  aware the PPI was taken out. But based on the evidence  Ive seen I 
think Canada Square made it clear  that Miss P didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Ive seen  screen shots of the application process Canada Square says Miss P 
wouldve seen and completed during her online application. These show Miss P wouldve 
had to select either yes or no for the PPI before submitting her application. Canada Square  
said the PPI wouldve only been  added to her account if she had ticked the yes option 
online  and I think thats probably correct.  Ive also seen a record  of the answers entered  
during Miss Ps online  application and this suggests  PPI was chosen.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to check if the policy  
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss P got the information she needed  to 
decide if the PPI was right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Miss P says she had sick pay and savings which she couldve relied on to make her card 
repayments. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and on top of her other  
means. So these  funds were free to be used  for other expenses.  And the PPI couldve 
cleared her outstanding balance if claimed  for long enough. So I think the PPI wouldve been 
useful for Miss P had she been  suddenly unable to work. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12188512
Ref: DRN1218851