K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva provided him with incorrect annuity illustrations. He based his 
decision on which annuity to take based  on those illustrations and expected  the income set 
out in the illustrations to be paid. However subsequently Aviva  revised  the income in its 
illustrations. By that point the annuity had already been put into force and annuity payments 
had started. Mr A would like Aviva to honour  the income set out in its original illustration. Mr 
A is also unhappy about the time it took Aviva  to address his complaint. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 13 June 2019.  A copy  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I was intending to uphold  Mr As 
complaint.
Aviva accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr A did not say whether he accepted the provisional decision. However he did say that 
reinstatement, which  was the redress method I set out in the provisional decision,  was not 
an option because  the tax free lump  sum (which  I set out would need to be returned to 
Aviva) had been invested and was not available.  He suggested a lump sum payment by 
Aviva instead. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that he was deprived  of the opportunity  to make a fully informed decision as to 
how to take his benefits from his pension by Avivas  incorrect illustrations. I have upheld  his 
complaint on that basis. 
The appropriate way to redress that is to give Mr A the option of reinstating  his pension so 
that he can make a decision as to whether  to take his benefits in a different way. The 
method I set out in the provisional decision would do that and Aviva has agreed  to carry out 
the redress if Mr A wishes. That would require the return of the tax free cash Mr A received  
to Aviva.  If Mr A does not wish to return that sum then that is his decision but it means that if 
he does not then I cannot require Aviva to reinstate the pension. 
I do not believe the payment of a lump  sum and Mr A to retain the GAR and tax free lump 
sum the appropriate  or fair redress in the circumstances.     
my final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint.  
Should Mr A accept my final decision  and state that he requires reinstatement I order  that 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited reinstate Mr As pension with the value  it would have had 
immediately prior to him taking his annuity. Mr A would not have  to return  any annuity 
payments he has received. Mr A would have to return the tax free cash to Aviva before  it 
carries this out. 
Ref: DRN10488512Mr A could then decide how to take benefits  from his pension.
If Mr A does not wish to accept this redress then his pension will remain the same. 
I also order Aviva, to pay Mr A £1,150  for the poor service he has received and the 
inconvenience caused. If any of this payment has already  been  made  then Aviva  can deduct 
that amount  from the payment. Mr A can accept this payment whether or not he opts for 
reinstatement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. Mr A should confirm when he does so whether he 
wishes to accept the award of reinstatement and payment for poor service of just the award 
in respect of poor service. 
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10488513copy provisional decision
 
complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva provided him with incorrect annuity illustrations. He based his decision on 
which annuity  to take based on those illustrations and expected  the income set out in the illustrations 
to be paid. However subsequently Aviva revised  the income in its illustrations. By that point the 
annuity had already been  put into force  and annuity  payments had started. Mr A would like Aviva to 
honour the income set out in its original illustration.  Mr A is also unhappy about the time it took Aviva 
to address his complaint.  
 
background
In 2017 Mr A was considering taking  benefits  from his Aviva pension (he was 65 in December 2017).  
Information about the pension was requested from Aviva by Mr As Independent Financial Adviser 
(IFA). Mr A says he was considering options such as pension drawdown.  Because  of Guaranteed  
Annuity Rates  (GARs) that applied to his pension Mr A says he was advised by his IFA to opt for an 
annuity with Aviva   as the rate could  not be matched on the open market. 
Aviva supplied illustrations dated 22 November 2017.  These set out various levels  of benefits  that 
could be taken. Mr A opted to take the annuity that included a 50% spouses  benefit. The illustration  
set out that an annuity  income of about £25,500 would be paid. 
On 15 January 2018 Mr A says he received a letter from Aviva confirming that the annuity income 
was about £20,000.     
Aviva has since confirmed  that the annuity income figure on the illustration of 22 November  2017 was 
incorrect and was caused  by incorrect assumptions as to the GAR  income.  It has also said that it did 
not contact  Mr A or his IFA before it set up the annuity paying the lower figure of £20,000.
Aviva said it would not pay the higher annuity income illustrated  but it offered to pay Mr A £1,000 in 
compensation. Mr A did not accept that and referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator at this service considered Mr As complaint. Whilst she recognised that Aviva should 
have provided the correct illustration to Mr A and it had made a mistake,  she did not believe Aviva 
needed to take further action. She thought Mr A had received the benefits he was entitled to. She also 
thought that the payment  of £1,000 was fair in the circumstances for the inconvenience this matter 
would have caused.
Mr A did not agree and said Aviva should have informed him that the illustration of 22 November  was 
incorrect before  it started making  pension  payments so that other options could be considered. He 
has suffered  financial loss of £5,000  income  a year. He said he was prevented from seeking  more  
attractive benefits in the market by Aviva putting the annuity into force before telling him that the 
income payment was not as he thought. 
Since this complaint was referred to me I have asked Aviva  for more  information about the amount of 
Mr As pension the GAR applied to as well as evidence  of communications  with him. However that 
information has not been forthcoming despite a considerable  amount of time being allowed.  Given  
that, I have  assessed the complaint taking into account current evidence.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10488514It is clear that Aviva issued  an incorrect illustration and it is clear that it should  have contacted  Mr A or 
his IFA before putting the annuity into force  with the, corrected,  lower amount. The issue now is how 
to fairly  put matters right.
Firstly I would say that Mr As actual loss is not the difference in income between that illustrated in 
November 2017 and that which  he eventually received. Mr A was never entitled to that amount,  he 
was entitled to what  annuity  his pension  actually  would supply. Mr A is not entitled  to redress based 
on the incorrect information  being  true. He is entitled  to redress based what would have likely 
happened had the correct information been given.
Mr A says that, had the correct information been given, he would have had the opportunity to seek 
more attractive benefits  on the open  market.  That is true and Aviva should  have given him that 
opportunity. But the material issue then is, would a different decision have been taken, rather than 
taking an annuity with Aviva?
The reason Mr A says he opted  for the annuity  option was because of the benefit of the GAR  that 
applied to his pension policy  and was something  his IFA advised him to do. Although the GAR had 
less of an effect than was originally thought  (because the GAR did not apply to all Mr As pension 
fund) it was still something that Mr A could  only take advantage of by opting for an annuity with Aviva.  
However, by reference to historic annuity rates  from annuity  providers, it seems to me that the annuity 
amount he could receive on the open market was similar  to the amount he received from Aviva.  That 
would make the choice of Aviva over other providers  much more  finely balanced.  And Mr A may also 
have been of the view that the benefits of drawdown  outweighed the (incorrect)  level of income he 
was to receive from Aviva.
Aviva seem to me to have  acknowledged this at the time the complaint was made  and considered 
offering to reinstate  the pension so that Mr A could  then make a fully informed decision as to how to 
take his benefits. However I have not seen that Aviva ever communicated this to Mr A or his IFA. My 
view would  be that this would be the appropriate and fair resolution  to this complaint  that is to 
reinstate the pension and then allow Mr A to make the choice as to how to take his benefits. It should 
be noted that if Mr A, on reflection, believes he would have taken the annuity with Aviva in any event  
(and so benefitting from the GAR), then this reinstatement  would  not be necessary.      
This is not to say that Aviva acted correctly and in my view it provided a poor service  to Mr A. And he 
would have been significantly inconvenienced and upset by being  told, after his annuity was set up, 
that the income would be significantly less than he thought. Mr A is due a payment for this. Aviva 
offered £1,000 in respect of the incorrect annuity illustration. That would be a substantial  award for 
this service to make and whilst I appreciate that Mr A does not believe this acceptable, I believe it 
fairly addressed  the upset  and inconvenience  caused by the incorrect illustration and its 
consequences. However I also note that Aviva do not appear to have replied to communications from 
Mr A in March (which  was a formal complaint) and April 2018. I have not seen any evidence of Aviva 
replying to his communications. And he was therefore left to lodge his complaint with this service in 
June 2018. I believe  this would have further inconvenienced Mr A so my view is that a further £150  
should be paid (total  £1,150). 
I would make it clear  that my view might change based on the provision of information  or further 
submissions from Aviva.
fair compensation
Calculating fair compensation is problematic because of the time that has passed since Mr A took his 
annuity. I would suggest  the following approach, which I believe is fair and pragmatic.
I am considering ordering that Aviva  reinstate Mr As pension with the value it would have had 
immediately prior to him taking his annuity. Mr A would  not have to return any annuity payments he 
Ref: DRN10488515has received  on the basis they are a proxy for income or investment return  he would  have in any 
event received since he took benefits. Mr A would have to return the tax free cash to Aviva. 
Mr A could then decide how to take benefits from his pension.
As discussed earlier, if Mr A wishes to have the benefit of the GAR rate then he is in the same 
position now as he would have been had he been fully informed - so no reinstatement  would be 
necessary. 
 
my provisional  decision
I currently uphold the complaint. I am intending to award  the compensation  as set out above. 
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1048851