K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Miss H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From  Miss Hs credit card application, I can see that she went  through  her details and 
preferences with the staff member  in order to fill it out. There  was a section for additional  
products, such as PPI, and I think its most  likely that that section was discussed too. 
There was a box that could be ticked if Miss H wanted PPI, or which could  be left blank if 
she didnt want it  and the box was ticked.  Ive also looked  at a copy of the demands and 
needs statement  that wouldve been  given to Miss H. It said that Halifax recommended  
she considered  PPI  this was only a recommendation,  which she was free to take or turn 
down. So I think its most likely  that Halifax made it clear  Miss H didnt have to take out 
PPI and that she chose to take it  though I can understand why she might not remember  
this after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss H, so it had to check that the policy was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
While Miss H said she had some  good  work benefits and savings, the PPI wouldve most 
likely covered  her for longer than those wouldve lasted  for instance, once her sick pay 
reduced to just half pay that wouldve  been a serious drop in income. So it looks  like the 
PPI couldve been useful for Miss H in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it looks  like she chose to take out the policy, which implies she 
wanted this type of cover.  As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have  been  useful for Miss H in case 
something went wrong. And so I dont think better information  about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have  told Miss H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN11771052my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1177105