K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) gave him a loan that was 
unaffordable.
background
On 24 January 2013 Mr I borrowed £200 from Mr Lender under a fixed  sum loan agreement. 
The loan was originally  due for repayment by 8 March but was, in fact, rolled over on eight  
occasions before a repayment plan was agreed  on 15 November 2013.  Full repayment of 
the loan was made on 3 May 2014.  
Mr I states that, at the time he borrowed from Mr Lender, he was already in a debt spiral with 
a multitude of short term lenders, and that he had to routinely borrow to meet  his various  
loan repayments.  He believes that Mr Lender shouldve  realised  that the loan, and its regular 
rollovers, werent affordable and that his debt problems  were worsening. He says that his 
credit report  wouldve shown other debt problems including late payments, defaults  and 
CCJs. 
Mr Lender feels  that it did carry out adequate checks before it provided the loan to Mr I. 
However, it offered  to partially uphold the complaint and make a refund to Mr I of £194, 
representing some  interest and late fees paid.
Our adjudicator felt that Mr Lenders  checks before  lending didnt go far enough, but that it 
wasnt wrong to provide  the initial loan, nor grant  the first three rollovers. But she thought  
that it wasnt sustainable for Mr I to be given the final five rollovers  and that Mr Lender had 
been wrong to agree  to these. She recommended it pay compensation to Mr I to recognise 
this.
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators opinion for the following  reasons:
it doesnt consider  five rollovers  to signify financial difficulties;
it communicated with Mr I via SMS messages before each rollover  to (1) advise him of 
the rollover, (2) counselled him to make some repayments of the original capital  to 
reduce his outstanding balance, and (3) request him to contact  it should  he not wish to 
rollover the loan for any reason;
it wasnt a member  of the Consumer  Finance  Association (CFA)  and so wouldnt have 
adhered to that organisations  lending code. However, it did follow the good  practice  
customer charter of the Consumer Credit Trade Association (CCTA), of which it was a 
member.
Because both parties arent in agreement the complaint  has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr I 
could afford  to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
Ref: DRN12577802proportionate to things such as the amount Mr I was borrowing and his lending  history, but 
there was no set list of checks that Mr Lender  had to do.
In his loan application, Mr I declared  that he was employed full time and that his net monthly 
income was £800.  Mr Lender carried out a credit  check  and also an employment check. I 
havent seen the results  of either  of these checks but Mr Lender  has told us that they 
showed nothing  of concern to it, such as defaults  (within the past 3 years) or insolvency 
matters. In light of this it considered Mr I to be creditworthy. 
The original  loan called for two repayments, the higher of which was for £270.  Given this 
represented a relatively significant proportion of Mr Is declared net monthly  income of £800,  
Id have expected Mr Lender  to ask for details of his income and also his normal monthly 
living costs,  including  regular financial  commitments. It did obtain  information on Mr Is 
income, but I cant see that it asked any questions about his regular outgoings.  As such, I 
dont think that its checks  before  providing the original  loan went far enough.
Its necessary, therefore, for me to consider whether, if Mr Lender had carried out the better 
checks that I consider  proportionate, it might have  come to any different lending decisions.
Clearly its not possible  to say, with certainty, what Mr I wouldve declared if he had been 
asked for details of his regular expenses. But I need to assess what this would most likely 
have been and, to do this, Ive looked at information  hes provided to us in support of his 
complaint, together with reviewing his bank statements from the time. 
From this I can see that Mr I had monthly normal living costs  of £415 and I think that this is 
what hed have declared to Mr Lender  if hed been asked. This wouldve left him with 
disposable income of £385 with which to service  the loan from Mr Lender,  with its higher 
monthly repayment of £270. So I think that, had Mr Lender done the better checks  that Id 
consider to be proportionate, it would still have considered the loan to be affordable to Mr I. 
As such,  I dont think it was wrong  to provide  the original loan.
I must now consider whether or not it was reasonable for Mr Lender to approve eight 
rollovers of the original principal sum borrowed, the result of which was to extend the loan 
from its original  full repayment date of March until September.
I can see that the first rollover occurred  on 8 February, two weeks after the loan was granted 
and when the first of the two original  loan repayments was due. It was then rolled over every  
four weeks  until 23 September at which point Mr I was unable  to meet the required 
repayment. 
I havent seen  evidence of the communications between Mr Lender and Mr I in relation to 
these rollovers. There were no regulatory rules governing loan extensions at the time.  
However, in contemplating the rollovers I have  reviewed the guidance on industry best 
practice as set out in the charter of the CCTA, of which Mr Lender  was a member.
The CCTA charter (effective from November 2012) states that short term loans are typically  
expected to be repaid over one or two months  as was the original loan agreement here. It 
states that its members  will tell borrowers  that its loans are to be used for short  term financial 
needs and are not appropriate for long term borrowing or if theyre in financial difficulties. I 
cant see whether or not Mr Lender provided this advice. 
Ref: DRN12577803Whilst the charter doesnt offer any commitment about the maximum number of loan 
extensions that are considered acceptable it does  dictate  that members  will check  that a 
borrower can afford the loan before the loan is extended. Here again,  I cant see that Mr 
Lender did this.
In addition, Ive also taken into consideration the lending code of the CFA (effective from July 
2012) which is explicit  in its requirement  that borrowers should not be allowed to extend a 
short term loan on more  than three  occasions. I do appreciate that Mr Lender wasnt a 
member of the CFA and so wasnt bound by its lending code. However the CFA was, along 
with the CCTA, one of the primary trade  associations representing the short  term lending  
sector. And, as a responsible lender operating  within that sector, I think  its reasonable to 
expect Mr Lender to have kept itself up to date with good industry practice and thereby be 
familiar with the principles  and practices  of the CFA. 
Ive given careful thought to what I feel is fair and reasonable in these circumstances, and I 
do believe  that, after having agreed  to rollover this loan on three occasions, Mr Lender 
should have been questioning whether Mr I was using  the short term loan in line with its 
intended purpose, which is to provide for short term cash flow issues  rather than prolonged 
finance.
Mr I requested a rollover of the loan at the point the first, and lower,  repayment of £70 fell 
due - just two weeks after the loan was made  and then repeatedly sought the same across  
each of the next three months. I think that this ought to have raised questions with Mr Lender  
about whether  he was dependent upon short term borrowing and, perhaps, was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
In these circumstances Id have expected Mr Lender to re-assess the affordability  of the loan 
rollovers by undertaking a comprehensive evaluation of Mr Is financial circumstances. There 
are a number of ways  in which  it could do this, such as asking for copies of his payslips,  bills 
or bank  statements.  I cant see that it did so.
Ive looked at Mr Is bank statements from around the time of the fourth  rollover  and can see 
that his income  in the prior month  was £962,  which is higher than the £800 hed declared 
when he initially applied for the loan.  However, in addition to the normal  living expenses hes 
told us about (£415) I can see that in the preceding month hed also made  repayments  
totalling £635 to other  short term lenders, and had paid out over £1,150 in gambling 
transactions. At the time rollover four was agreed he had repayments for other short  term 
loans amounting to £840  which were falling due for payment in the coming month.
So I think that, had Mr Lender conducted  the better checks that Id consider to have been 
appropriate by the time of rollover four it wouldve seen that its loan wasnt  affordable  to him. 
As such,  I dont think it was right to continue to provide these rollovers.
I can see that Mr Lender did treat Mr I appropriately in a sympathetic and supportive manner 
once it was apparent  to it that he was experiencing financial difficulties. It suspended the 
accrual of interest  and fees whilst agreeing to an extended repayment programme which 
ultimately saw the loan repaid over six months. But, Ive come to the conclusion  that its 
repeated extensions of the original loan were  not appropriate in Mr Is circumstances and I 
share our adjudicators  view that it should pay some  compensation.
Ref: DRN12577804my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right PDL Finance 
Limited should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr I paid on the final five loan rollovers (made  
between 3 May and 23 August  2013); 
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  these loan rollovers  from Mr Is credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
PDL Finance  Limited must  give Mr I a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1257780