K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS)  blocked  a bank transfer from his 
account to his wifes.
background 
Mr I needed to buy a new car and so went to go and buy one on a Saturday. He took a taxi 
so that he could drive  his new car home. 
When he bought  the car, he did a bank transfer  for £2,000.  However, RBS blocked  this as 
their system thought  that it might  be fraudulent.  So the payment didnt go through.
Mr I rang RBS to find out what happened, but failed the security checks. He was told to take 
his ID in to the bank,  but as it was Saturday  afternoon, he couldnt do that until the Monday. 
He had to take a taxi back. 
When he went in on Monday, RBS didnt contact  the fraud department as they should have 
done. This meant that Mr I had to go back  again later with his ID. 
Our investigator thought that RBS were within their rights to block  the payment if they 
thought it may be fraudulent. And as Mr I failed their security check, again they were right to 
not do the transfer.
However, she thought  that RBS could have  provided better service when he went  in on the 
Monday and suggested that RBS pay Mr I £75 compensation. RBS agreed to this, but Mr I 
didnt, and thought that RBS should pay him back for the money that he spent on taxis.  
So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide here is whether RBS should  pay Mr I for his two taxi journeys. I dont 
think that it should, and I believe  that it has acted fairly here.  Ill explain why.  
The terms and conditions  are clear that RBS can stop a payment if they are worried  it may 
be fraudulent. Although  this was a genuine  transaction, they wouldnt have known that at the 
time, and I dont think that they did anything wrong  in stopping it. 
Its in the nature of checks and procedures like these that they will cause some customers 
inconvenience. But these  are intended to help and protect customers  in the long run. Im 
satisfied RBS was entitled to stop the payment  here and ask for more information  about it. 
Unfortunately, RBS say that because Mr I failed the checks with RBS over the phone, it 
meant he had to attend a branch so that ID could be verified.  I realise that thats 
inconvenient for him, but this was in line with RBS  procedure here. 
So even though Mr I had to take taxis to collect his car, he didnt have to do this because of 
something RBS did wrong. So it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it to pay for Mr Is taxi fares here.   
 
Ref: DRN13597202I do think that RBS could have given Mr I a better service though  on the Monday, and I think 
that their offer of £75 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I know that Mr I will be 
disappointed by this, but I wont  be telling  RBS to pay more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay 
Mr I £75 compensation for the reasons given above.  
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1359720