K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy when he took out a loan.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold when  Mr F took out a personal  loan in May 1999. 
The policy cost £16.68 each month and it wouldve provided a monthly benefit which 
covered the full amount  of the monthly repayments  on Mr Fs loan.
Our adjudicator first of all thought that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
costs and the benefits werent made clear enough. And if they had been clearer  then he 
didnt think Mr F wouldve taken out the policy.  Northern Bank  disagreed with this view, so 
our adjudicator looked at Mr Fs complaint again,  taking into account what  Northern  Bank 
had said and the example  documents it had sent to us. 
This time, our adjudicators view was that Northern Bank probably had explained the policy  
costs clearly enough to Mr F  and there wasnt  any other reason to uphold  the complaint. 
So, overall, our adjudicator said he didnt now think we should uphold this complaint.
Mr F didnt  agree so this complaint  comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive taken into account what Mr F has told us he remembers  about  the sale and what 
Northern Bank says about how the policy was sold. Mr F mainly  says that he applied  for the 
finance at one of the banks branches  and additional  insurance  wasnt discussed. Mr F also 
says that if hed been made aware  of the PPI he wouldve declined it.
This sale took place  so long ago that I think its likely  that Mr F mightve forgotten exactly  
what he discussed at the bank and what he was told about the PPI. And there arent any 
notes of the meeting available now. So I dont know how the policy was presented to Mr F 
when he was making his loan application.  
And Northern Bank couldnt provide the original paperwork  from the sale. So Ive seen 
nothing signed  by Mr F from then. But Ive seen an example of the loan application form in 
use at Northern Bank a few years before Mr F applied for his loan. And Northern  Bank says 
Mr F wouldve had to complete a form like this for his loan. So I think  its likely this is similar 
to the application that Mr F wouldve filled in when he took out his loan with PPI. 
Ref: DRN18909342I can see on the form that it explained cover  was available to protect monthly loan 
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment. There were yes and no tick 
boxes - so the borrower could say if this cover was required or not. 
And on the sample loan agreement Ive seen  (which Northern  Bank again says is very 
similar to the one Mr F wouldve had to sign for his loan) there were also options to say yes 
or no to PPI. So I think Mr F wouldve seen that PPI was an available option  with this loan 
and it was up to him to say if he wanted to take out the cover  offered  and he couldve 
declined the policy if he didnt want it. 
Looking at his circumstances, I can see why he mightve wanted to have the benefits that the 
policy offered. And I dont  think  its likely  it wouldve been added  to his account  if he hadnt 
ticked the paperwork to say he wished to have  it. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr F chose to take out the PPI  even if understandably  
hes forgotten this now.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr F so it had to take reasonable steps to ensure  
the policy was suitable for him. And it looks to me like it was suitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr Fs circumstances  at the time.  
Mr F told us he didnt  have any sick pay through work and he hasnt specified in what  other  
ways he couldve covered his loan monthly repayments if he wasnt able to work. 
The policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr F lost his job unexpectedly 
and was out of work. And if hed made  a successful accident or sickness claim, it wouldve 
paid the loan monthly repayments for as long as he was off work  and it couldve cleared 
the loan if he wasnt able to return to work sooner.
I think this wouldve been useful had Mr F been  unable to work  and he couldve had some 
use for the policy in his situation. I havent seen enough to make  me think that Mr Fs other 
means wouldve  been sufficient for me reasonably to say that the policy wasnt  suitable for 
him.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Fs case. So, I dont think having  more information about things the policy  didnt cover  
wouldve affected his decision  to have PPI. 
Ive not been clearly  shown that Northern  Bank  properly explained what  the policy  would 
cost, or what it might  pay out if Mr F made a claim.  Northern Bank has sent us examples of 
later versions of the quotation it thinks Mr F wouldve been given and which  wouldve  set out 
the cost of the PPI, but I dont know if he saw such a document  and, if so, when. But he 
chose to take out the policy when he didnt have  to  so he seems to have wanted  it. It 
seems to have been affordable for him at the time and he couldve  cancelled it later, without 
further cost, if his circumstances changed or he decided PPI wasnt something he wanted to 
pay for.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr F wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN18909343This means  I dont  find that Mr F lost out as a result  of anything Northern Bank did wrong  
so it doesnt need to do anything to put things  right.
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1890934