K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  declined  to renew her motor  
insurance policy but didnt explain why. Shes also unhappy it didnt send her the policy  
documents she asked  for or the contact details  for the underwriter. She wants  an apology.  
background
Advantage wrote to Mrs C saying  it wouldnt renew her policy. She complained and 
Advantage said the claims on Mrs Cs policy were  a factor in its decision.  Mrs C was 
unhappy with this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  it was 
Advantages commercial  decision  not to insure Mrs C. He thought it had correctly applied its 
criteria for deciding not to offer a renewal. He thought Advantage had given Mrs C 
reasonable information about its decision. He explained how Mrs C could pass  her concerns 
to the intermediary. Advantage agreed  to provide  the documents  Mrs C requested  and that 
she no longer had access to. 
Mrs C replied that she thought Advantage should  have explained its criteria to her. She 
thought its decision  was unfair  as she had two non-fault claims.  She thought a personal 
response should have been  provided and she should have  been  told who the underwriter 
was. She was still awaiting all the documents shed  asked  for. Mrs C asked for an 
ombudsmans review,  so her complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs C was frustrated with Advantages decision not to renew her policy. Shed 
been claim free for many years whilst  insured with Advantage. I have no doubt shes a 
careful driver.
But, as the investigator  has explained, its for Advantage  to decide to whom  it offers  
insurance. We wont normally  interfere  with this as the level of risk it takes  is its commercial  
decision. But we do check that its applied the same decision  process to all consumers and 
so has been fair and reasonable in its approach.
Advantage has provided us with the underwriting criteria it uses  to decide on whether  or not 
to offer a renewal.  I can see that Mrs C doesnt qualify for renewal under these criteria 
because of the previous years driving  history. I can understand  that Mrs C feels this is unfair 
in her case, but I think its for Advantage to decide  on its underwriting criteria.  And I think 
they have been correctly  applied. So I cant require it to offer Mrs C a policy  renewal.
I think Advantage provided  Mrs C with a reasonable explanation of its decision in its 
response to her complaint. But I think this could have been provided  earlier  and so avoided  
causing Mrs C frustration.   
Ref: DRN12307922Mrs C said she didnt know who her underwriter was. But I can see that this information is 
provided on her policy renewal certificate which she accessed from the online portal. The 
policy document also directs Mrs C to her policy schedule for details of her insurer. Mrs C 
wanted to contact the underwriter directly but Advantage has explained  that her contact is 
though the intermediary. 
I can see that Advantage made several attempts to send Mrs C the documents  she asked  
for by post and email. It has assured us that it has sent them all. If Mrs C hasnt received any 
of them  she should  advise the investigator  of any specific documents shes missing. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1230792