K820x#14complaint
V, a limited  company, complains that HSBC Bank Plc closed its account without notice. V is 
represented by its director,  who Ill refer to as Mr V. He asks for compensation of £150,000, 
a letter  from HSBC saying  the account was closed due to its own procedural  failings and 
removal of any adverse data on his and Vs credit  files.
background
Mr V says HSBC restricted and then closed  Vs accounts. It told him this was because he 
hadnt provided information it needed  for a review of Vs accounts. Mr V says he didnt 
receive any letters from HSBC about  its review.  He says HSBC  didnt make enough effort  to 
contact him. Mr V says the unexpected closure of Vs accounts  caused him stress and 
potentially damaged Vs reputation and credit rating. He says he was unable  to access the 
balance in Vs account.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She said HSBC had 
sent letters about its safeguard review and notice to close Vs accounts.  While it was 
unfortunate if these  werent received, this wasnt due to an error by HSBC. It was also 
unfortunate that Mr V was given inconsistent  information about  whether the account closure  
could be stopped, but this was after the account had closed. The investigator  didnt 
recommend that HSBC  should pay compensation or take further steps,  saying HSBC  hadnt 
made an error with the account closure.  
V didnt  agree. Mr V said leaving a voicemail  isnt sufficient given the number of spam calls 
and increasing  use of text and messaging  apps. Mr V queried whether HSBC  held 
inconsistent contact details for him on its systems and said it could have  got his attention  by 
blocking his accounts.  He says HSBC didnt  treat V fairly because it didnt make enough 
effort to contact it. Mr V says not having a bank  account could have a devastating  effect on a 
small business and small  businesses need to be protected from the banks. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The terms and conditions  of Vs account  say that HSBC can withdraw  services  or close the 
account by giving two months  notice. HSBC wrote  to V in January 2018 saying it would 
restrict its accounts in March and close its accounts  in May 2018. It said this was because it 
didnt have the information it needed  to carry out a review of Vs accounts. The notice gave a 
number to call to discuss keeping the accounts  open. In April 2018  HSBC sent a further 
letter telling V that the accounts  would be closed  in May 2018. 
HSBC says it wrote to V about the safeguard review in October 2017. It says it sent further 
letters and tried to contact Mr V by phone.  It says it left voicemails. HSBC  provided records 
to support this. 
Ref: DRN16603612HSBC says it wrote to V using the address  in its records. Vs address was changed in 
November 2017  and the closure notice was sent to the updated  address. Im sorry Mr V 
didnt receive the letters  and notices,  but I dont think this was due to an error by HSBC. 
Mr V said HSBC should be aware of the number  of spam calls and voicemails customers 
receive. He says HSBC  should have tried to contact him by other means. But I dont think 
HSBC was required to do so. I think it made reasonable efforts to contact Mr V.
I appreciate that the closure of Vs accounts  was inconvenient. Mr V was told it might be 
possible to keep the accounts  open  when it was already too late to do so. And he says 
HSBC took too long to close the account  and send him the balance.  HSBC says it tries not 
to send correspondence while complaints are open to avoid confusion. It sent its final 
response to Vs complaint  about the account being  closed on 7June 2018. This confirmed 
the account would be closed and a cheque sent for the balance. The cheque was sent 
before the end of June 2018. I appreciate  that not being  able to access  its funds during this 
time caused difficulties  for V. But I must  also take into account that HSBC  had given notice 
of the account  closures so that V could  make other  banking arrangements  before its account  
was closed.
I havent seen  evidence that HSBC  recorded inaccurate information on Vs credit file. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require HSBC to pay 
compensation for closing Vs accounts  or take other steps, such  as removing information 
from Vs credit file. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1660361