K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr G says he couldnt  afford  these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed four short-term loans for Mr G between June 2016 and February 2017. 
The loans ranged from £200 to £750  and were due to be repaid over between two and three  
monthly instalments.  Ive set out a summary of lending  below.  
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments 
duehighest monthly  
repayment  due (£)
1 18/06/2016 250 2 278
2 30/07/2016 750 2 948
3 08/11/2016 300 2 372
4 01/02/2017 200 3 245
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Gs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. She thought  the checks QuickQuid  carried  out for loan 1 were 
proportionate. But that the checks carried out from loan 2 onwards werent. And she thought 
that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve seen that loans 2 - 4 
wouldve been unaffordable for Mr G, and would  not have agreed to them.
Mr G raised no objections  to the initial view. QuickQuid responded further, disagreeing with 
the assessment.  So the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Mr Gs last three loan applications. And thought that had it done so, 
it wouldve  likely understood these loans would not have been  sustainably affordable for him. 
These findings were  set out in some  detail in a view letter  to the lender. 
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Mr Gs income  and expenses before funding all these loans. Its said it 
started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the changes  
were completed by 28 February 2015.
And that starting  1 March  2015, before Mr G borrowed his first loan, it had implemented an 
affordability review that was consistent with the FCA Handbook and was in place at the time 
it received authorisation by the FCA. And that its assessment was conducted properly and 
individually for each of these  applications.
I can see that the adjudicator addressed these points in her view.  She said:
 
Ref: DRN10543552I note what  you've  said about the loans  Mr G borrowed from 2015  onwards, however
our job is to look not only into the rules and regulations set by the regulator at the time of
borrowing but also the law, good  industry  practice and all the available  evidence  and
arguments to help us decide whether we think what you have done is right or not. In this
case I don't  think you were right to provide Mr G with some of the loans he borrowed
from 2015 onwards.
I fully agree with this point. This service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic 
argument directly and through earlier final decisions.  So I am not going to expand  on this 
point any further  here,  though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my 
decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance  in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Gs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr G borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
Looking at the specifics of Mr Gs complaint, at the time of taking out his first loan with 
QuickQuid, he borrowed £250,  due to be repaid over two months, with a highest monthly 
repayment of £278.  When Mr G made this application, QuickQuid recorded his monthly 
Ref: DRN10543553income as £2,766 and his total monthly  living expenses as £477. So it wouldve seemed to 
QuickQuid that Mr G had a monthly disposable income of around £2,289 when he applied.  
Given this was the first loan Mr G had taken out with QuickQuid, and taking into 
consideration the size of the monthly repayments in relation to the monthly  income Mr G 
disclosed, I think QuickQuids checks went far enough at this time.  And from what Ive seen 
from the results of those  checks, I think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to have concluded 
this loan wouldve  been affordable for Mr G. So I dont think it was wrong in approving loan 1. 
Mr G repaid his first loan around mid-July 2016,  and around  two weeks later, he approached  
QuickQuid again  to borrow further funds.  On 30 July 2016 QuickQuid approved Mr Gs 
application and he was granted a loan of £750, repayable over two months, of which the 
highest repayment was £948. But when Mr G applied  for loan 2, his reported  monthly  income 
had decreased significantly from the figure hed declared just two weeks prior,  with 
QuickQuid this time recording a monthly  income  for him of £1,680, which  was over £1,000  
less than hed quoted  just six weeks prior. 
Given the significant increase in the amount  Mr G was borrowing, as well as the significant  
decrease in the monthly income he was declaring in a relatively  short space of time; I think 
QuickQuids checks shouldve gone further. And I think in this instance, proportionate checks 
wouldve included QuickQuid building a full picture  of Mr Gs financial circumstances and 
verifying the information it was given, so that it could satisfy itself that Mr G could meet  these 
repayments in a sustainable manner.
Mr G went on to take out two further  loans with QuickQuid. Loan 3 was for £300 repayable 
again over two monthly instalments, with a highest repayment of £372.  And loan 4 was for 
£200 repayable over three monthly  instalments, with a highest  monthly  repayment  of £245.
Both loans  were taken  out shortly after the previous loans had been settled, and at the time 
of taking out the third loan, Mr G seemed to have been unable  to free himself  of the need to 
take out short-term  credit  over a period of around  five months. So I think that from loan 3 
onwards, QuickQuid shouldve continued to build a full picture of Mr Gs financial 
circumstances and verified the information  it was given before agreeing  to lend to him. 
So Ive gone  onto look at what I think QuickQuid wouldve found out, had it carried  out 
proportionate checks. 
Had QuickQuid carried out a full review of Mr Gs financial situation when he applied  for 
loan 3, I think it wouldve  seen that his monthly  income was actually  less than hed declared 
and that he was earning around £1,270 a month.  It wouldve also seen that his total monthly 
outgoings, which include his monthly  living costs, and both his regular and short-term  credit 
commitments were  around £570. Which meant Mr G was left with around £700 out of which  
to meet  his monthly repayments.  
Given that the highest repayment on this loan was around £950, I think  proportionate checks  
wouldve shown QuickQuid that Mr G had insufficient disposable income available  to meet  
the repayments on this agreement in a sustainable manner. And as a responsible lender, I 
dont think it wouldve approved this application knowing this. 
QuickQuid has argued that as Mr Gs loans  were repayable over between two and three 
months, that he wouldve accrued disposable income over time which wouldve allowed him 
to gather sufficient funds  to meet his repayments.
Ref: DRN10543554But at the point Mr G took out his second  loan, he was already borrowing from several other 
short-term lenders on a regular basis.  And at the point of taking out this loan, only two weeks  
had passed since  hed cleared his previous loan, before he needed  to borrow again.  
Proportionate checks wouldve also shown QuickQuid, that in the month  prior to taking out 
this loan, Mr G had spent  over £3,000 on online gambling sites,  spending at times as much  
as £1,000 a day. 
So had QuickQuid  carried out proportionate checks at the time of Mr Gs application  for 
loan 2, I think it wouldve  seen he was not in a position to accumulate disposable monthly  
income, in order to meet larger repayments  due in later months. And that his current level of 
financial commitments  meant he had insufficient  disposable  income  available  to meet the 
largest repayment on this loan.
I think QuickQuid wouldve also seen that Mr G was spending more  than twice his monthly 
income on online gambling and/or gaming sites. So I think  it wouldve therefore likely  
concluded that Mr G was in no position  to meet the repayments on this loan sustainably,  and 
as a responsible  lender would not have agreed to loan 2. 
Loans 3 and 4 were  taken out in relatively short succession, and at the time Mr G applied for 
these loans, his circumstances remained relatively the same.  He continued to earn between  
£1,200 and £1,700  a month. And his regular  monthly living  costs  and regular credit 
commitments remained  around  £450 - £500 a month. 
But at the time of taking out loan 3, proportionate checks wouldve also shown QuickQuid 
that Mr G owed in excess  of £3,000 that month to eight other  short-term  lenders, which  was 
around twice his monthly income. And I think it wouldve also seen that he was still spending  
over £2,000 a month on online gambling sites.  
Mr Gs circumstances at the time of taking out loan 4, were much  the same. And while  his 
income had increased  slightly  to around £1,700 a month, his short-term credit  commitments 
alone were around  £1,000 that month, and hed again spent in excess of £2,000 the 
previous month on online gambling/gaming sites. 
So I think proportionate checks  wouldve  shown  QuickQuid,  that at the time Mr G applied  for 
loans 3 and 4, his total monthly  outgoings were already well in excess  of his monthly 
income, and he was in no position to be able to commit to himself to any further credit 
repayments at this time. And as a responsible lender, would not have agreed to these loans. 
In summary,  I think proportionate checks wouldve  shown QuickQuid that loans 2 - 4 
wouldve been  unaffordable for Mr G, and it wouldnt have agreed  to them.  
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid should not have agreed to loans 2  4 for 
Mr G. So it needs to refund all of the interest and charges Mr G paid on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loans it agreed  between July 2016  and 
February 2017
Ref: DRN10543555pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Gs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1054355