K820x#14complaint
Mr G complained to The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) about the 
advice given when  his pension policy was sold in 1990.
background
Mr G complained to us by letter dated 12 November 2018. He explained that hed taken  out 
a pension policy with Scottish Amicable (which  later became part of Prudential) in February  
1990 as a repayment vehicle for an interest  only mortgage. Mr G understood the policy  
would produce  a tax free cash lump sum of at least £34,000 on his retirement on 19 June 
2017. Mr G had made a previous complaint to Prudential about the sale of the policy.  But 
Prudential wasnt responsible as it hadnt sold the policy. It had been sold by an independent 
adviser. But that business had ceased  trading some time ago. 
Mr G accepted that. But he still felt that thered been  shortcomings  on Prudentials  part. For 
example, in failing  to warn him that there was a risk that the policy  wouldnt generate 
sufficient tax free cash to pay off his mortgage. 
We made Prudential aware of Mr Gs new complaint.  It issued its final response on 12 
February 2019. In the main it didnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint.  But it did identify some  
instances of poor service  for which it offered compensation  of £100. 
Mr Gs letter  dated 8 July 2019. He wasnt satisfied  with what  Prudential  had said in its final 
response letter or with the compensation offered. 
The investigator issued  her view on 11 December 2019. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said the £100 Prudential had offered for any poor customer service  was reasonable. In 
summary her findings were:
She didnt agree  Prudential was complicit in the mis selling of the policy. Even if 
Prudential was aware that the pension was being sold as a mortgage  repayment 
vehicle, Prudential hadnt provided advice  or recommended the policy to Mr G. It 
wasnt responsible  for what another business  had done.
Prudential wasnt obliged to send warning letters to highlight  any potential  shortfall.  
The situation  wasnt the same as for endowment policies where the regulator had 
introduced special steps. 
No guarantees  had been offered. 
Mr G had received annual statements setting out the fund value.
Waiver of premium benefit hadnt  been  added.  Cover had been declined. Mr G hadnt 
paid for the benefit and the whole of the premiums hed paid had been added to his 
fund. 
Mr Gs policy was made up of ten separate arrangements. Prudential had explained 
that the member  can phase  taking benefits  to purchase an annuity on the open 
market (as Prudential no longer offers annuities)  or take tax free cash and a reduced 
open market annuity. Prudentials legacy  policies didnt have a drawdown  option but 
Mr G could do a partial transfer into drawdown  and take the tax free cash  or transfer  
the full proceeds  into drawdown either  with Prudential  or another provider. As 
Prudentials drawdown product  was only available on an advised basis, Mr G would 
need to take financial advice if he wanted to take that option. 
The £100 Prudential  had offered for inadequate  customer service  was reasonable 
and in line with what wed award in similar  cases.  
Ref: DRN17050392Mr G didnt agree. In his letter of 29 January  2020 he commented in detail and provided 
documents in support. Ive read all that Mr G said, some of which  he repeated  in his later 
letter which Ive summarised below. 
We told Mr G that his complaint would  be referred  to an ombudsman.  He the wrote saying 
that should be delayed as he was still waiting for some information hed requested  from 
Prudential. He said hed have further contact  with Prudential which had resulted in further 
mistakes. And some earlier errors  had proved  to be significant and had caused considerable 
losses. 
Mr G also wanted to correct a couple of points in his earlier  letter. And he said he wanted to 
know whether we thought it was more or less likely that Scottish  Amicable was aware  the 
pension was a repayment vehicle for a mortgage. He also made some comments  about the 
policy being segmented. Mr G continued to press the point about what  Scottish Amicable  
knew when he took out the pension policy. The investigator replied saying from what  wed 
seen Scottish Amicable may have been aware  it was intended to repay a mortgage.  
Mr G made  further comments in his letter of 14 July 2020. He noted that the investigators  
view was that Prudential  was probably  aware that the pension  as to be used as a repayment 
vehicle for a mortgage. He said his complaint now comprised some  six points. Ive set out 
those below. One of his concerns is about  whether his pension can split. Ive considered  
below about how his pension is split (into ten segments) and how he can access  them  as 
part of this complaint.  But weve also set up a new complaint for Mr G. Under  that new 
reference well consider the customer service  hes had around this issue and whether hes 
been given confusing information about how to access his pension benefits.  This is in 
relation to a final response he was issued on 18 February 2020. 
Mr Gs six complaint points were: 
Should he have  been  sent warning letters about  an expected  shortfall?
Mr G maintained the use of a pension as a mortgage repayment vehicle was 
comparable to an endowment policy. It would have been clear  that the shortfall in the 
lump sum provided by the pension would  cause similar difficulties to endowment 
policies. Providers should have given  warnings in both cases. 
The financial adviser was responsible  for assessing the ongoing suitability - financial 
advisers were only responsible for the sale of the endowment  policy not reviewing  its 
performance. Mr Gs financial adviser had ceased to trade in 1991.  
Prudential didnt  deny  it should  have been  aware  the pension had been  sold to pay 
off the capital of an interest only mortgage.  The paperwork hes retained  from 
Scottish Amicable proves it was aware  at the time of the purpose of the pension.
Hed had an endowment mortgage as well and had received a six page leaflet from 
the regulator in early  2000. He wasnt unduly concerned when he received red 
warning notices about a shortfall as the policy wasnt earmarked to repay  a loan and 
so didnt need to reach a specified amount.  The lack of warnings  about  his pension  
reassured him that the pension was performing  as expected. 
Did Prudential provide  guarantees?
He now accepted that the guarantees didnt apply as he only had investment linked 
funds. But if hed understood  that earlier hed have  had the option to switch to the 
Ref: DRN17050393with profits  fund at no expense. The product literature did refer to guarantees (with 
profits and cash funds). But the document was unclear and confusing and not fit for 
purpose. Although the with profits fund differs in many respects from the investments 
fund its special properties are scattered throughout the document  rather  than 
collected in one place. 
Even Prudentials  own staff dont understand the product details. And Mr G had been 
assured that guarantees did apply.  From 1989  until 2019 he believed the guarantees 
applied to his policy not only due to information  provided by his financial advisor but 
also documents from Scottish  Amicable and Prudential. At least two communications  
received from Prudential within that period confirm guarantees are in place. Even  if 
these were sent in error the effect on his actions cant be dismissed.  
Did Prudential make  it clear  how the fund was performing?
The information from Prudential in recent  years  shows how the fund was performing 
to a person who is familiar with the terms used. He trusted the guarantee would fully 
protect his pension from prevailing  market conditions.  Wed  seen a recent statement. 
But earlier statements  were brief and not as clear. Looking  at the 1996 and 2000 
statements from Scottish Amicable,  showed, in 1996  a plan value of £8,429. In 2000 
it was £14,948.  Mr G might assume the fund value  would double  every five years  or 
so. By 2017 it wouldnt be unreasonable to expect the fund value to exceed the 
£136,000 required  to yield the £34,000  tax free lump sum to repay the mortgage. 
More recent statements have more comprehensive information buried  within  their 
pages. Mr G produced two pages out of the 20 page 2013 statement. One page 
shows a current value  of £43,414  and a pension of £1,670 pa. The other page shows 
tax free cash of £13,800 plus a yearly pension  of £1,820. Mr G recalled looking at the 
figures. But he could  only correlate them with his expectations but taking the transfer  
value shown under  the heading,  Benefits at your selected retirement age as the 
25% tax free cash  sum.  The pension had always been  presented to him as a 25% 
tax free lump sum plus an annuity.  He thought he was guaranteed a minimum tax 
free lump sum of £34,000 which would almost certainly be more.  The value shown of 
£43,414 equated reasonably well with the lump sum. The pension  of £1,670 pa was 
very low but didnt overly  concern  him provided his mortgage would be settled. The 
projected tax free lump sum of only £13,800  was so far removed from the minimum 
£34,000 that he couldnt reconcile the two figures at all. 
Has he been paying for waiver of premium  benefit?
Mr G accepted that no deductions  had been  made for waiver  of premium benefit.  He raised 
a number of queries, including whether that benefit was ever included free of charge to some 
policyholders.
Can his pension be split?
The additional explanation Prudential had provided to the investigator hadnt  been 
communicated to Mr G direct  by Prudential and differed  from what Prudential had 
previously said. It now seemed the policy was made up of ten arrangements  which  
could be treated individually by using  the proceeds of each  to buy an annuity on the 
open market;  or take tax free cash and a reduced  open  market annuity; or 
transferring the full proceeds from each arrangement into a drawdown arrangement. 
But hed again asked Prudential to cash in one section and been told that wasnt  
Ref: DRN17050394possible. Transferring  to a drawdown product required advice. Yet he could take the 
full value of all ten arrangements in one sum with no requirement  for advice. 
Mr G referred  to what the product details said: To increase flexibility  the Plan is 
issued as 10 constituent contracts. The first page ends,  The issue  of the Plan as a 
series of 10 identical contracts enables the benefits  to be realised gradually over a 
period of years to assist in cases of phased  retirement. Prudential should  be 
instructed to treat the policy  as ten separate contracts  as described in the product 
details. And increase  the value of the pension fund by the amount Prudential sought  
to charge for unnecessary advice - £2,370.
Mr G had met with a representative of Prudential on 12 September  2019  who 
suggested moving the pension to a drawdown  product. That required an advice fee. 
When Mr G said the pension was split into ten parts  the representative said he 
thought that facility  had been withdrawn. But he advised Mr G to try again as that 
would fulfil Mr Gs requirements just as well as drawdown. 
Mr G wasnt  happy to sign the document the representative produced and which he 
said was required so he could  access Mr Gs full details, although he appeared to 
have those already  as well as the information Mr G had given during the meeting. On 
closer reading the letter appointed Prudential as Mr Gs financial adviser and 
committed Mr G to paying an advice  fee. The representative had documents which  
were marked  as not to be given  to the client and which he refused to allow  Mr G to 
take a copy of. He said Mr G wasnt entitled  to them despite GDPR  (General Data 
Protection Regulation). 
Has he experienced an adequate level of customer service?
Mr G set out a fairly lengthy list of failings on Prudentials part. He suggested  it was 
probably longer  than in other,  similar  cases. Im not going  to repeat everything on the 
list here. But I note, for example,  what Mr G says about Prudentials  letters  of 5 July 
2017; 7 August 2017; 22 August 2017; a telephone  call in June 2018 and a letter 
dated 19 June  2018; a telephone  call on 2 November 2018  and various  telephone 
conversations.  
His primary intention in raising  many minor inconsequential errors alongside more 
serious shortcoming was to illustrate  how prone Prudential is to making mistakes and 
providing incorrect or misleading information.  Prudential had admitted a number of 
smaller failures and apologised. If theres  a failure on a regular  basis with less 
important matters  errors will be made  on matters of substance.  Some of Prudentials  
assertions should be treated with some  degree of scepticism.  For example, it hadnt 
explained why Scottish Amicable was provided  with a property valuation and we 
hadnt pressed  Prudential  to say when a valuation might  be required. 
His expectations of Prudential providing an accurate  and adequate level of service  
had been badly damaged.  Prudential shouldnt need the threat of having to make 
payments to disappointed customers  to maintain an excellent level of service.  A 
payment of £100 wouldnt be any deterrent although it was insignificant  compared to 
Prudentials costs  in dealing with the complaint.  
summary
Mr G wasnt seeking compensation for the mis-selling of the policy  or for minor errors or poor 
service. He did want compensation  for not being alerted to the risk that the fund would fall 
short of the figure required  to repay the mortgage.  The numerous errors relating  to this 
should be taken  into account as evidence  of fault.  He was also seeking compensation for the 
contribution the product literature played  in the mis-selling of the pension  and which  was 
Ref: DRN17050395unclear, confusing and misleading.  It had been misinterpreted by financial professionals  and 
cannot be regarded  as suitable for retail customers.
He also wanted  Prudential to be required to explain exactly  how Scottish Amicable managed  
the provision of premium  waiver benefit. And provide illustrations comparing how the 
pension would have  performed had it been  included with how it had actually performed. And 
Prudential should  produce the documents they refer to where  waiver  of premium was 
declined on health  grounds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made detailed  comments. Ive considered all hes said. But Ive focused on what I 
see as the main issues. To some extent thats  consistent with Mr Gs own approach  hes 
provided some examples  of minor service errors not to support a claim for compensation but 
to show the overall  level of service and that Prudential  was prone to making mistakes.  
Mr Gs mentioned that Prudential still hasnt provided  him with all the documentation hes 
requested. I can understand Mr Gs comments that a pension  is a long term contract. A 
dispute can arise at any time and so its prudent to retain documentation beyond  the sort of 
timescales that might normally  apply  to some financial products. But I recognise, given the 
time since the pension  was taken out, not everything will have  survived, especially where, as 
here, the original product provider has been taken over.  Im satisfied I can make a fair 
decision based on what Ive seen.
I can see that Mr G feels very strongly about the issues hes raised.  But, having considered 
the complaint  I agree  with the findings  reached  by the investigator and with the reasons she 
gave. Ive added some further  comments below. 
Should he have  been  sent warning letters about  an expected  shortfall?
I dont agree with Mr G that Prudential was required to send warning letters  about a possible 
shortfall or should  have done  so as a matter of good  customer service. I can see why Mr G 
regards a pension  mortgage as analogous with an endowment mortgage. But, and even if 
Mr G regards it as an oversight by the regulator, a pension  mortgage isnt subject to the 
same regulatory requirements such as reprojection letters and shortfall  warning letters. I 
cant criticise Prudential for failing to provide warning letters to Mr G when there  was no 
regulatory requirement to do so. 
Mr G may have  felt reassured  by the lack of shortfall warning letters. Unfortunately  that 
confidence was misplaced. But I dont  think thats Prudentials fault when it wasnt  required  
to issue warning letters. 
Nor can I say that, as a matter of good  customer service, Prudential  should have given Mr G 
warnings. I say that largely because I think the pension statements Mr G was given had 
sufficient information  for him to keep track of how his pension  was doing and whether the 
fund value would be sufficient to enable him to pay off his mortgage. Ive considered the 
statements further below.  
Ref: DRN17050396From what  Ive seen Scottish  Amicable  was or should have been aware that the policy had 
been sold to Mr G as a vehicle to repay his interest  only mortgage. I note that section 7 of 
the application form for the pension states  it is a pension mortgage.  But I dont think that 
makes any difference  and where Im unable to say that Scottish  Amicable/Prudential  was 
obliged to notify Mr G if the projected fund value might not generate sufficient  tax free cash 
to repay  his mortgage. 
Did Prudential provide  guarantees?
Its unfortunate if Mr G has been  told that guarantees  were in place. He now accepts that 
there were no guarantees attaching to his fund. But he says the product literature was 
unclear and misleading, even to professionals and trained staff. Over  the years  this sort of 
literature has become more customer friendly and will now be written in a way thats easier 
to understand.  I dont  think  it would be fair to judge the brochure by todays standards.  
But, that said, I dont  see any particular problems with the Flexi-Pension product details. This 
sort of information is invariably complex  and is usually something that an adviser  will go 
through with the client. The information sets out the six available  funds. Guarantees (and 
bonuses) are mentioned  in connection  with the exempt with-profits fund and theres also a 
guarantee with the cash fund (that the bid values  of units in the fund wont  fall). Mr G was 
invested 50/50 in the international  and managed funds. No guarantees are mentioned  in 
connection with either  fund. 
Fund choice  would have been  something discussed and agreed between  Mr G and his 
adviser. Mr G would or should  have known that his fund value was dependent  on investment 
performance. Any failure to make that clear was down to the adviser and not Prudential  as is 
any claim that the funds  selected werent suitable for Mr G. If Mr G thinks he should  have 
been invested in the with profits fund or that the benefits of that fund, including  any 
guarantees, werent made clear,  again I dont think thats Prudentials  fault.
There may have been some reference  to guarantees in correspondence over the years.  For 
example, Prudentials letter of 17 November 2005 said that changes  were being made to the 
guarantees that apply to your pension  plan from 1 January 2006. These changes may affect  
you if you currently hold with-profits units or choose to invest in them in the future. 
Prudential says the letter was sent in error.  But even  so, Mr G wasnt  invested in the with-
profits fund  his policy was split 50/50  between the managed  and international funds. So 
any changes to the guarantees didnt affect  him. I think the letter was clear enough. It only 
applied to with-profits investors. I dont think it gave Mr G any reason to believe that 
guarantees applied when  he wasnt invested  in the with-profits fund. I can see why it might  
have been sent to him in any event  as it referred  to changes that would affect  him if he 
chose to invest in the future in the with-profits fund. 
I note here what Mr G says about  believing the option to switch to the with-profits  fund was 
no longer open  to him after Prudential had acquired  Scottish Amicable. But the letter of 17 
November 2005  said that Mr G might chose  to invest in with-profits in the future and set out 
how the guarantee would work for units purchased or switches made after 1 January 2006. 
And that the 4% guarantee would continue to apply to with-profits  units  bought from 1 
January 2006.  
Ive note below that Prudential did, on at least one occasion, give Mr G to understand that 
guarantees did apply when that wasnt the case. 
Ref: DRN17050397Did Prudential make  it clear  how the fund was performing?
I note what Mr G has said about  the statements having got more complex over the years. I 
accept that. Pension  scheme administrators are required to provide certain information on an 
annual basis. Statements can appear lengthy and complex. But I dont necessarily agree 
that certain information  was buried in the statements. 
Mr G got statements showing his fund value. I think they were enough to make  him aware 
that his tax free cash entitlement wouldnt cover his outstanding mortgage. I accept that 
Prudential knew that he was, initially at least, planning on using the pension  fund to repay  
his mortgage.  But I still dont think there  was any duty on Prudential  to do what Mr G 
considers it should  have  done. And although I understand his point, and his experience with 
an endowment mortgage,  I dont  think  it was reasonable for him to assume that, as he didnt 
get any warnings,  things  were still on track  to repay  his mortgage from his tax free cash and 
when he received statements showing the current fund value. 
I note what Mr G says about early indications being  that that the value of his pension  fund 
might double every five years or so. But I think Mr G had a responsibility to monitor fund 
performance to ensure  that level of growth was sustained over the term of his pension. 
I also note what Mr G says about understanding that the pension  would  produce  a tax free 
cash lump sum plus a pension. And why he thought the fund value was the amount of the 
tax free cash.  But I dont think any misunderstanding  as to how the pension  would work and 
in particular the amount of the fund that he could  take as a tax free cash  lump sum is 
Prudentials fault.  It didnt advise Mr G. I think it was for his adviser to explain how the 
pension would work and what proportion of the fund would be available as a tax free cash 
lump sum to meet Mr Gs mortgage.  
The pension statements did identify the amount of tax free cash that might be available. I 
know Mr Gs said he couldnt reconcile that with what he understood the amount would be. 
But I dont think thats Prudentials fault. In my view it was up to Mr G to query with 
Prudential if he didnt  understand the statements he got. 
Has Mr G been paying for waiver of premium benefit?
Mr G now accepts that the waiver of premium benefit was declined  at the outset on health 
grounds and that no deductions have been  made in respect of the premium  costs. Hes 
raised some queries  but I dont think  theyre relevant or that the answers  will change  the 
outcome of this aspect  of his complaint. Essentially he hasnt got the benefit  but he hasnt 
paid for it either. 
I note what he says about having redirected the amount of the premium to his mortgage 
payment but Mr G didnt  make those payments. So hes retained the use and benefit of that 
money. I dont think it would be fair to make any award in respect of money which  Mr G 
hasnt actually paid,  even if I could say with any certainty  which  I cant   that he would 
have increased  his mortgage payments. 
Can his pension be split?
As Ive explained above, Mr Gs complaint  about  whether he was provided with confusing  
information about this issue will be dealt with separately.  But I think Mr G is now aware  how 
Ref: DRN17050398the policy operates and what his options are, assuming  he doesnt transfer to a new 
drawdown product  (with Prudential or another provider).
Essentially the policy is segmented which does offer some flexibility or the ability  to phase 
taking benefits  from the policy.  But, although  Mr G can take benefits from one or more 
segments, his options are limited  he can transfer  or buy an annuity on the open market  
(Prudential no longer  offer annuities)  with the full segment(s) or after hes taken tax free 
cash. What he cant  do is leave the segment(s) invested to be drawn down as income as 
and when he requires.  
To do that hell need to transfer  to a drawdown  product  but Prudential  will insist  he takes 
advice before buying a drawdown product with it and so hell have to pay an advice fee. 
I dont think Prudential is acting unfairly  by saying  that Mr G will need to transfer. Mr Gs 
existing contract doesnt provide for the drawdown option he wants. Changes to pensions  
(pension freedoms) were  introduced in April 2015  (the Pension Schemes Act 2015)  to give 
more flexibility in accessing pension benefits. The legislation  was enabling  rather than 
compulsory so there was no onus on providers  to amend existing contracts to provide for the 
new options. The provider  can insist on a new contract. 
In certain scenarios advice is a legal requirement.  I dont think thats the case here. But 
Prudential only offers drawdown  products  on an advised basis.  In my view, thats a decision 
which Prudential is entitled to take.  If Mr G wants to transfer  to a drawdown product  with 
Prudential he can only do that with advice. But, as I understand  it, hes free to transfer  to an 
alternative provider  and who may not insist on advice being  obtained.  
Has Mr G experienced an adequate level of customer service?
I havent upheld  Mr Gs complaints. I can understand why hes unhappy and that its only 
relatively recently that hes found out that his pension (or the tax free cash) wont  repay  his 
mortgage. 
But I can only uphold his complaint and make  an award against Prudential  if I think  
Prudential has done something wrong. For the reasons Ive explained, in so far as Mr Gs 
main issues  are concerned, I dont  think thats the case. 
Prudential accepts that it made some errors. For example, its letter of 5 July 2017 refers  to 
Mr Gs units growing by at least 4% pa. As discussed, that guarantee applied  to units  in the 
with-profits fund which wasnt where Mr Gs pension  was invested. And there  were  failures  to 
provide information   for example during a telephone call in June 2018 Mr G requested  a 
policy value which wasnt supplied to him. I dont ignore  those shortcomings  but Mr Gs focus 
has been on the more substantive issues. 
Against that background I think  the £100  thats been  offered by Prudential its service failings 
is fair and reasonable and Im not going to say that Prudential  should pay any more.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Ref: DRN17050399Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1705039