K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about  the amount of compensation Nationwide  Building Society, 
offered following a complaint about payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  taken out in 2001 
and 2009. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Nationwide got due to the PPI. I am unable to consider how the policy  was sold as another 
ombudsman has previously looked at this and decided Mr and Mrs P didnt bring that 
complaint to us in time. Ive only looked  at whether the offer Nationwide  has made is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Nationwide said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr and Mrs P paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included  8% per year simple 
interest to compensate  Mr and Mrs P for the time they were out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said they should  receive  all the commission and profit  share back  
because they were not told that Nationwide would receive any commission, and if they had 
been then they would  not have bought the PPI. But Nationwide has done what  the rules it 
must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs Ps particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Nationwide should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling them about  the amount of commission and profit  share it 
got. But I dont  think there  is. I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Nationwide to do anything more.   
Ref: DRN13105252my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Nationwide Building Society has correctly  worked out what it 
needs to pay Mr and Mrs P. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  update  and pay its offer to Mr and Mrs P if it hasnt done 
so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1310525