K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss T says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss T applied for a credit  card over the internet. At the same  time she took out a PPI policy. 
This policy would  have cost £0.79 for every  £100 of the statement balance. And it would 
have paid 10% of that balance for up to 12 months  at a time, if she couldnt work because  of 
accident, sickness or if she lost her job. It would have also paid the outstanding balance 
upon Miss Ts death.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. Miss T disagreed  with this 
view and asked that her complaint be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  her complaint. I know Miss T will be disappointed with my 
decision, so I would like to explain why Ive reached it. 
Miss T applied for her card and the PPI online. The first thing Ive looked at is whether 
Miss T was given a fair choice about  buying the policy. 
I think Barclays made it clear that Miss T didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she might not be able to remember this. 
From what  we know of Barclays online process, someone had to choose  Yes or No to PPI. 
If someone clicked Yes then the credit agreement that was sent out afterwards included 
wording to reflect that, which is what happened in Miss Ts case. Miss T could have clicked  
No if she didnt want the policy,  in which case  the credit agreement wouldnt have 
mentioned PPI. 
Taking all this into account I think Miss T was given a choice and chose  to take out the cover 
knowing she could leave  it if she didnt want  it.
As the PPI was taken out online, Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss T so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss T got the information  
she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI cover. 
Miss T has told us she would receive three  months  pay if she wasnt  able to work.  She didn't 
have any other financial  means she could have  relied upon. I think  its likely that Miss T 
would have struggled to meet her card repayments if she was out of work for a lengthy 
Ref: DRN13242742period. So I think  the policy would have  been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  
Although its possible  the costs  and other  information could  have been  clearer,  it looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss T because:  
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Miss T about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Miss T, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss T has said - including what  she has said about  the policy 
not being explained to her, not being  able to make an informed decision and the policy being 
added without her consent. But these points  dont change my decision.  For the reasons Ive 
explained above, I still think the policy could  have been useful if Miss T fell into difficulty. So I 
still think its likely Miss T would have bought the PPI even if shed had better or clearer  
information. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1324274