K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Mr W and Mrs C say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
Mr W and Mrs C took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage in 2005. They  paid a monthly  amount  
for the PPI. 
If either  of them had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment,  the 
policy would have paid out 50% of the repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr W and Mrs C have  said they didnt know they had PPI and so they think  it was added  
without their knowledge. But I think RBS made it clear that Mr W and Mrs C didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this after all this time.
RBS has said that the mortgage application was made via a phone call and it has provided a 
copy of the application form which would have  been sent to Mr W and Mrs C after the call. 
On this form there is a section titled Your protection and within  this is a part called 
Protecting your mortgage payments. I can see that Mortgage Loanguard Protection  the 
name used  by RBS for PPI - has been  handwritten in the space where the form asks for the 
type of cover  being applied for. Both Mr W and Mrs Cs names  have also been detailed  
where the form asks who should be covered by the policy. In this same section there  are two 
other options to decline  to take out the PPI and I can see these have been left blank.  If 
Mr W and Mrs C didnt  want to take out the PPI they could have chosen the options to 
decline the cover. Mr W and Mrs C have both signed this form which suggests they agreed 
with everything that had been entered.
Ive also been  given a separate PPI application which includes a direct debit mandate form 
which has been completed to instruct their bank  to enable the premiums  to be collected.  This 
form confirms that both Mr W and Mrs C are to be insured by the policy and details  the 
amount of monthly  benefit they were looking to be covered  for. I can see that Mr W has 
signed the form to confirm  his agreement for the direct debit instruction. 
I have also received a copy  of the mortgage  offer which was sent to Mr W and Mrs C when 
their mortgage application  was accepted. On this document  it includes a section about 
insurance and confirms that Mr W and Mrs C were not required to buy any insurance  from 
Ref: DRN12105112RBS. In this same section  it details  the PPI under a heading  of Optional insurance that you 
do not have to take out through The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. If Mr W and Mrs C hadnt 
been aware that they had taken PPI out and didnt want the cover, I think that when they 
received the mortgage offer and saw this detailed  on the document,  they would have raised 
this with RBS at the time.
So when taking  this all into account  I think RBS made it clear  that the policy was optional 
and that Mr W and Mrs C agreed to take it out, knowing they could refuse the cover if they 
didnt want it.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr W and Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr W and Mrs C got the information they needed to 
decide for themselves if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr W and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr W and Mrs C have said - including  what  theyve said about 
not needing the policy as they had other means, such as savings, and that Mr W had 
another insurance cover. But as Ive mentioned above, the policy was not recommended  to 
them which means  it was for Mr W and Mrs C to make their own decision about whether the 
cover available was of use to them, taking into account what  they knew  of their savings and 
other means. And by having  this policy it would enable them  to protect any savings they may 
have had for use elsewhere  or use them to help pay for other essential living  expenses  they 
would have to cover if either of them was not earning. 
And in relation to the insurance policy, it isnt clear  if this policy was already in existence  
when he took out the PPI or if it was taken out after the mortgage  was agreed  
unfortunately Mr W has been unable to recall  many details about  this cover and so I cant 
place as much weight on this as he would perhaps  have liked me to. But from the limited 
information he has told us, it doesnt  appear  that the policy would have  covered  them  for all 
the same  circumstances as the PPI and therefore  I still think  the PPI policy could have  
provided a useful benefit to them. 
Mr W and Mrs C have  also said that their family  could have helped meet the repayments.  
While I appreciate that their family would have wanted to help, such support cant  be relied 
upon as their circumstances can also change meaning that they are unable  to provide 
financial assistance. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Ref: DRN12105113Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1210511