K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) lent to him 
in an irresponsible  manner. He has also complained about  MCF transferring his debt to a 
third party, and the lack of communication from the lender  about  his repayment options.
background
Mr M took one loan from MCF. He borrowed £1,000 in October 2017 and agreed to repay 
the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Mr M has found  it difficult  to make  his repayments and at 
the time he made  the complaint he still had a balance outstanding on his loan. I understand 
that MCF has now sold the debt to a third party who has obtained a County Court  
Judgement against  Mr M for the balance he owes.
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She thought  that the 
checks MCF had done before agreeing the loan had been  sufficient. And she thought  that 
those checks suggested that Mr M would  be able to afford the repayments  in a sustainable 
manner. She also didnt think MCF had done  anything wrong  in its communications with 
Mr M, or by transferring his debt to the third party.  So she didnt think the complaint  should 
be upheld.
Mr M didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time MCF  gave  this loan to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so MCF  had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
Ref: DRN18342102the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr M.
MCF gathered some information from Mr M before  it agreed  the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before speaking  with 
Mr M on the telephone to review the details  of his application.
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with MCF. He would need to make  monthly  
repayments for a period of two years. So I would think it reasonable that MCF  would want  to 
gather, and independently check,  some  detailed information about  Mr Ms financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. Through the information it gathered from Mr M 
and from the independent check of his credit file, I think MCF  achieved  that objective. I think 
the checks MCF did before lending to Mr M were proportionate. 
The information that MCF  gathered from Mr M suggested that he could afford to repay this 
loan. And the checks it did on his credit file didnt show  that Mr M was facing any significant  
problems managing his money.  He only had a limited number of other credit accounts  and 
appeared to have managed his repayments  on other borrowing in a responsible manner. So 
I dont think MCF was wrong to give this loan to Mr M.
As I said earlier,  Mr M quite quickly faced some problems making his repayments  on the 
loan. But I can see that MCF made repeated efforts to get in touch with him by telephone, 
text messages, emails,  and by writing to his home  address. I appreciate  that by then Mr M 
might have not been resident at the address hed given when he originally asked  for the 
loan, but I think  it likely hed have received the communication  attempts by the other 
methods. So I dont think MCF did anything wrong  in this regard.
Mr M started  to work with a debt management charity when he first faced his financial 
problems. And I can see that charity  worked  with MCF on Mr Ms behalf  to start to set up an 
affordable repayment  arrangement.  But shortly afterwards I understand that Mr M lost his job 
and so the debt charity  wasnt  able to help him further and no formal  repayment 
arrangement was agreed with MCF. So Mr Ms loan remained unpaid  for a period of time.
MCF has now sold Mr Ms debt to a third party. It is entitled to do that, at any time and for 
any reason, under the terms of the loan agreement that Mr M signed. So I cannot conclude 
that it has acted unfairly by transferring  Mr Ms debt to another  party.
Ref: DRN18342103I appreciate how disappointing  my decision  will be for Mr M. But, in summary, I think  the 
checks MCF did before agreeing this loan were proportionate, and the results shouldnt have 
led to the loan request being declined. And I dont think  MCF has treated  Mr M unfairly either  
in the communication it has had with him about his arrears, or by transferring the debt to a 
third party. So I dont  think this complaint  should  be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1834210