K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has settled a 
claim he made on his home  insurance policy following a fire at his home. 
background
In September  2018 Mr B had a fire at his property. A carpet and other  items  were damaged.  
RSA agreed to cover the claim including replacing  a carpet. 
RSAs supplier said it could replace the carpet for around £940 using its own suppliers. Mr B 
had problems contacting the supplier and told RSA about this. As a result he paid for the 
carpet to be installed by his own contractor. The cost of the replacement was £1,099.  RSA 
said it hadnt agreed for Mr B to use his own supplier  so it wouldnt cover the full cost,  but it 
did agree  to increase its offer to around £993  as its supplier hadnt been available.
Mr B thought  RSA had initially agreed  to cover  the full cost,  and then later changed  its 
stance. He thought it should cover the full cost and so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the contact  between RSA and Mr B. She thought  RSA had given 
Mr B the impression it would cover  the full cost of having his carpet replaced, by his own 
supplier. So she thought  it was fair and reasonable for RSA to cover the full cost.
RSA said it had told Mr B several times that it would only pay him what  it would cost it to 
replace the carpet. So it didnt think it gave misleading information. RSA also said Mr B had 
ended up with a better  carpet than hed had before.  So it thought this is why Mr B chose to 
go with his own supplier, and so shouldnt have to pay the extra.
As RSA didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSAs policy  says that when settling claims:
'Where we can offer repair  or replacement through a preferred supplier but we
agree to pay our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not
exceed the amount we would have  paid our preferred supplier.'
From the notes provided, Mr B accepted a replacement of his carpet  through  RSAs 
approved supplier. And he did so because  RSA wouldnt agree to cover the quote that he 
had obtained.  So I dont agree with RSA that it was always  Mr Bs intention  to go with his 
own supplier.
Mr B says he contacted  RSAs supplier numerous times and hadnt received an answer  
almost a week later. Mr B says he had other contractors booked in to replace his fireplace 
and complete painting work, so he chased  RSA as he needed a date for the carpet to be 
fitted.
Ref: DRN11735412RSAs notes say it also tried to contact  its supplier and wasnt successful, so I dont doubt   
Mr B had tried numerous times to contact  them  without success. In response to Mr Bs email 
RSA replied:
Afternoon. Thank you for your email  I apologise  for the retail  partner not be able to 
get in contact with you and vice versa I was wondering  is it possible for you to still get 
your own carpet contractor to fit the carpet at £1099.66
Mr B replied  saying it shouldnt be a problem and that hed visit them tomorrow. Mr B says 
this email suggested to him that RSA would pay the full cost of having  his carpet replaced, 
so he went ahead and booked it in, paying  in advance. RSA say this wasnt its intention, and 
it didnt expect Mr B to book in the carpet with this supplier.  
Ive noted RSAs comments that it had previously told him this amount wouldnt be covered, 
so Mr B shouldnt have assumed it had changed its stance. But having considered 
everything I dont think RSA has been clear  with Mr B. Its not clear to me why it would ask 
about the availability of his supplier, if it wasnt intending to agree to him using it to progress 
the claim.  And if it wasnt  intended to say this, then I think it should  have been quite explicit  
in this email that it wouldnt agree to cover  the full £1,099.
The difference in cost between RSAs supplier and what it cost Mr B was only £150. So in 
the circumstances I think  it was reasonable for him to assume his costs  would be met, given 
the difficulty hed had contacting RSAs supplier and the relatively  small amounts of money  
involved. And RSAs  policy wording  suggests there are instances where it would cover the 
full cost to Mr B, even  if it was more than it would have paid its own supplier.
Mr B told RSA hed be visiting the carpet fitter the next day, RSA could have clarified  at point 
that it wasnt endorsing  Mr B in going  ahead  with the cost. But it didnt say anything further 
until Mr B said hed be providing the invoice. So Mr B is now out of pocket because he went  
with his own supplier.  Because I think this was as a result of RSAs  poor communication,  it 
follows that RSA should  pay Mr B the difference between what it has offered him and what 
he paid to have  his carpet replaced.
my final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc needs to pay Mr B £1,099, less 
any amount it had already paid him. 
It should also pay 8% on what is left to pay from the date Mr B paid the invoice, until the date 
of settlement.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to take off tax from 
this interest. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must give Mr B a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN1173541