K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Clerical Medical Financial Services  Limited paid out proceeds from an 
endowment policy despite his instructions not to do so.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ts complaint in July 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In 
summary, I accepted that Clerical Medicals  actions in paying out were contrary to Mr Ts 
instructions. But I thought  the fact that the payment occurred almost five years  after he gave 
that instruction,  nearly three years after the policys maturity and well after the intended 
beneficiary of the policy had come of age rendered  Clerical Medicals decision to go ahead 
and make payment  a reasonable  one. 
I said this particularly given Mr Ts failure to reiterate his instruction  when  he contacted 
Clerical Medical in October 2017,  or at any other time, and the clear 30 days  notice given to 
him in January 2018, which it appeared he didnt respond to. 
In respect of Clerical Medicals offer of £100  for the trouble and upset  caused  by its handling 
of the complaint, I thought  this was fair and reasonable  and explained that I didnt intend to 
direct any increase to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I received no responses to my 
provisional decision I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jams Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11318092COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that Clerical Medical Financial  Services Limited paid out proceeds from an 
endowment policy despite his instructions  not to do so. 
background
Mr T took out a joint endowment policy  with his now ex-wife in 1999, for a term of 16 years. They 
subsequently separated in 2007 and then divorced in 2009.
A consent order in respect of the matrimonial proceedings was issued in December  2009.  It set out, 
among other things, that the policy was to be assigned  to their son and that they would continue  to 
pay the monthly premiums in equal share until the policys maturity  in 2015.  They  did so, but the 
policy wasnt assigned because their son wasnt of age. 
In August 2013 Mr T wrote to Clerical Medical to explain that he was in bitter dispute with his ex-wife  
and to instruct  it that no payment should be made from the policy  without his signed  agreement. 
Clerical Medical  acknowledged and confirmed  the instruction. 
The policy then matured  in March 2015. Maturity letters were sent,  separately,  to Mr T and his ex-wife 
explaining that, as joint owners  of the policy, they needed to sign in order to receive their respective  
half of the proceeds. Mr Ts ex-wife did so but she also told Clerical Medical that Mr T was unlikely to. 
He didnt, so no payment was made  to either party.  
Several years  later, in July 2017  Mr Ts ex-wife contacted Clerical Medical  again to explain  that their 
son had now turned 18 so she wanted to know if there was anything  that could  be done about  making  
payment from the policy. Clerical Medical sent a tracing letter to Mr Ts address  and in response he 
confirmed his details and asked for an update on the policy,  but he made  no reference  to payment. 
Eventually, in January 2018 Clerical Medical  wrote to Mr T to say that in the interests of expediting 
payment of the policy proceeds  it was letting him know of its intention  to make payment of 50% of the 
proceeds to his ex-wife  in 30 days, unless he informed it of any reason why it shouldnt do so. No 
response was forthcoming,  so payment was made to his ex-wife.  
In March 2018  Clerical Medical  wrote  again to Mr T to remind him of his outstanding  half of the 
maturity value. In May 2018  Mr T called Clerical Medical  to complain  that payment had been made  to 
his ex-wife against  his wishes and contrary to the consent order.
Clerical Medical  didnt  uphold the complaint. It noted that the consent order had solely  been directing 
Mr T and his ex-wife,  not Clerical Medical. It explained that as the policy had never been assigned  as 
per the consent order, Mr T and his ex-wife remained the joint beneficial  owners. And ultimately  the 
proceeds could not be held indefinitely. So, as thered been no response to its repeated queries about  
payment, the decision had been  taken to pay out to Mr Ts ex-wife. Clerical Medical did, however,  
offer Mr T £100 for the poor handling of his complaint.
Mr T didnt accept Clerical  Medicals response, so he referred the matter to this service.  But our 
adjudicator reached  broadly  the same conclusion  as Clerical Medical. 
Mr T remains of the view that Clerical  Medical  acted incorrectly. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN11318093Mr T gave an instruction to Clerical Medical in August 2013 to not make any payment from the policy  
without (his) verified signature in agreement. 
Clerical Medicals  response to this was to thank him for advising it that he must be contacted before 
any payment  on the policy is made  which  wasnt actually what  he had requested.  It also confirmed 
by phone  and in writing  that he would  be contacted if there is any request of payment for this policy.
Mr T doesnt appear to have questioned this at the time. On the face of it, it could be said that Clerical 
Medical acted  incorrectly in misinterpreting  his request. But nevertheless, it did confirm  to him what  it 
was going to do in respect of payment   contact him in advance  and it did indeed  do so, most  
notably in its letter of 19 January 2018 in which it gave him 30 days notice of its intention  to pay out 
his ex-wifes share of the policy  proceeds. 
So, I dont think it can reasonably be concluded that, in general,  Clerical Medical  did act incorrectly. It 
had a responsibility towards the policy owners  Mr T and his ex-wife  to pay the proceeds out. It 
would appear that the intention of the consent order was that by the time of the policys maturity  in 
2015, if not earlier, Mr T and his ex-wifes son would be the beneficial owner  of the policy. But that 
hadnt been actioned and Ive not seen that Clerical Medical had any responsibility in that respect.  So 
Mr T and his ex-wife  remained the joint owners.
And in these circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr T to expect all payment  of the 
proceeds to be postponed indefinitely,  particularly  as it appears he was in fact using the 
postponement as leverage in a separate dispute with his ex-wife. 
So, in short, I accept that Clerical Medicals ultimate actions in paying out were  contrary to Mr Ts 
2013 instruction. But I think the fact that the payment  occurred almost five years after that instruction, 
nearly three years  after the policys maturity and well after the intended  beneficiary of the policy had 
come of age renders Clerical Medicals decision to go ahead and make payment  a reasonable one. I 
say this particularly given Mr Ts failure  to reiterate his instruction when he contacted Clerical Medical 
in October 2017, or at any other time, and the clear 30 days notice given  to him in January 2018,  
which he didnt respond to. 
In respect of Clerical Medicals  offer of £100 for the trouble and upset caused by its handling  of the 
complaint, I think this is fair and reasonable  and dont intend to direct any increase to it.
my provisional  decision
For the reason  givens,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded not 
to uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN1131809