K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that N26 Bank GmbH treated him unfairly when  he tried to cancel his Metal 
packaged account. He says that he has been caused distress and inconvenience  by N26s  
failure to treat him fairly.
background
Mr C opened, on-line, a Metal packaged account with N26 on 26 December 2018. On 17 
January 2019  he telephoned N26 to enquire  about  the account  card which  hadnt  yet been 
received. On 20 February 2019 Mr C telephoned N26 to cancel the account.  He was told 
that as the 30 day cancellation period  had passed he would have to pay the full fees for the 
year (less the two months free period).
Mr C complained to N26 and it responded to the effect that the 30 day cancellation period 
had been made clear  at the point  hed signed-up. It told him it required full payment of £149 
but agreed to refund  the payment  made  in March  because of the delays hed experienced in 
receiving his card.
Mr C brought his complaint to this Service. We asked N26 for some  information. A few 
weeks later,  it told us that in order to resolve  the complaint  - without admitting liability - it had 
cancelled Mr Cs Metal  account  and refunded the three account fees which  had been paid 
(£44.70). Our adjudicator concluded that a fair outcome had been reached. Mr C doesnt  
agree as he thinks he was caused  considerable inconvenience as a result of N26s failure to 
treat him fairly from the outset.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved informally, its come to me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive outlined above what has happened  so far. The events took place over a relatively  short 
period of time. Mr C tried to downgrade the Metal account on 20 February 2019. When he 
was unhappy  with what he was told, he complained.  N26 responded to his complaint in 
March. Mr C brought his complaint to us immediately.  In May, N26 downgraded his account 
and refunded the fees hed paid.
Our role is to look into complaints about  financial  businesses quickly  and informally. If 
something has gone wrong  we usually ask businesses to put the consumer back  in the 
position they wouldve been  in but for the wrong-doing. When  N26 downgraded the Metal 
account and refunded the fees Mr C had paid, it didnt  accept it had done  anything wrong.  It 
says it took these actions  to resolve the complaint.  If I were to be looking into the merits of 
Mr Cs complaint, because N26 hadnt agreed to downgrade and refund, and I decided  to 
uphold his complaint, I would  most likely require N26 to do exactly  what  it did. 
And Mr C has confirmed  that the refund  and downgrade have put him back  in the position he 
wouldve been in if he hadnt signed  up for the Metal account.   But he says that as a result of 
the time,  effort and distress caused to him in following up his complaint, he is entitled  to 
additional compensation.
Ref: DRN15266372I appreciate that Mr C may have been  caused  some inconvenience because  he felt he had 
to bring a complaint. An element of effort is always involved in making complaints. And some  
inconvenience is often  part of our day-to-day  lives  and in our dealings with other  people,  
businesses and organisations.  In this case Mr C has already been put back  in the position  
hed previously been in  and this happened  relatively quickly.  I havent seen enough  to 
conclude that he was caused  any inconvenience over and above  what one would usually 
expect would come from making a complaint.  For me to award compensation,  Id need to be 
satisfied that the impact  of N26s actions had been  greater  than the usual level of 
inconvenience or upset when making a complaint.  And I cant fairly say that this is so in 
Mr Cs case. So I'm not making any additional  award  to him.
I am sorry  that this wont be the answer Mr C was hoping for but I hope my explanation has 
helped him understand my decision.  Id also like to take this opportunity to apologise to the 
parties for the length  of time its taken for them to receive this answer.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above Im not making any additional award to Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1526637