K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2004 Mr D took out a mortgage  with Halifax.  At the same time,  he took out a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The plan included a PPI element,  which included cover  
for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The plan also included life cover  and critical 
illness cover.  Ive only considered the PPI element  of the plan here.  Mr D paid a monthly 
premium for the TMPP. The PPI element of the plan would have covered his monthly 
mortgage payments  for up to 24 months  per successful claim for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
Halifaxs records show that Mr D cancelled the TMPP in June 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time that's passed, Halifax no longer  has copies of the documents that Mr D 
signed when  he took out the mortgage and TMPP. I don't think  that's surprising  or 
unreasonable, given  that the sale took place so many years ago.
I can't know  exactly what  was discussed  when  Mr D took out the TMPP. It wouldn't  be 
reasonable to expect him to remember exactly what was said so long ago. So what he 
says about what  happened  isn't enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  the 
complaint.
In cases  like this, where  the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need  to decide what 
I thinks most likely  to have  happened, based on the information I have. Ive borne in 
mind that Mr Ds mortgage was a major  financial commitment,  due to run for a long 
period of time. His property  would have been  at risk if he didnt keep his mortgage  
payments up to date. The PPI cover provided  a dependable means of ensuring  that his 
monthly mortgage repayments  were protected if he was off sick or lost his job. Ive also 
borne in mind that were not aware  of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these 
policies at the time.
Ref: DRN12091532I acknowledge that Mr D says he wasnt aware  that hed taken the policy  out. But based 
on the limited  evidence I have, I cant fairly conclude that the policy was added  without 
his consent. On balance, I think its more likely that they Halifax made Mr D aware  that 
the policy was optional,  and that he chose to take it. But I can understand how he may 
no longer  remember  this, so many  years later. As it is, Halifaxs records  show  that Mr D 
cancelled the TMPP two months after he took it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr D. This means it had a responsibility to check that it 
was suitable for him. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what I've seen 
of his circumstances at the time.  
Mr Ds told us hed have been entitled to sick pay from his employer at the time if hed 
been off sick. But although hes queried  this, Im satisfied that the policy would have paid 
out in addition  to any payments  he received from his employer, and for up to 24 months,  
which is significantly longer  than Mr Ds told us hed have been entitled to sick pay for. 
So he could  have used any sick pay he received to meet  other day-to-day expenses. 
And he wouldn't have  had to use his savings to meet his mortgage payments.
It may be that Halifax  could have explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
the cover was competitively  priced, and Ive seen  nothing to suggest that Mr D couldnt 
afford it. So even  if Halifax  had given him better  information about the cost of the policy 
had, I think hed still have bought it.
Its possible  Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover  (for example, 
unusual employment  situations, or existing medical conditions). But based on what  hes 
told us, its unlikely Mr D would have  been  affected by any of these. So I dont think  
better information  about the policys exclusions would have put Mr D off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1209153