K820x#14complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC hasnt treated them fairly when they 
experienced financial difficulty with their mortgage.  Although Mr J has joined the complaint, it 
has been conducted by Mrs J. She says Barclays hasnt been sympathetic. It hasnt agreed 
concessions to help them. It hasnt taken account of her vulnerability. And its made it difficult  
for their son and daughter to act on her behalf.
background
Mrs J and Mr J took out their mortgage with Barclays many years  ago. The main  mortgage 
balance was, at the end of 2019,  less than £30,000,  though they also owed over £250,000 
on the associated  mortgage current account  (MCA).
Mrs J and Mr J divorced  some years ago. They  reached agreement about their finances, and 
the agreement  was set out in a court order. The order said that the property would be placed 
on the market. Mrs J would live in the property until it was sold but Mr J would pay the 
mortgage. When the property was sold, the mortgage would be paid off, as would the 
mortgage on a second buy to let property which was to be transferred to Mrs J.
Unfortunately, despite being on the market  for several years  and being reduced  in price 
several times  the property hasnt sold. Mrs J and Mr J were  able to pay a lump sum of 
around £20,000 in 2018 following  the sale of the buy to let property. But other  than that, 
there have  been  no payments to the mortgage since 2017.  
In 2016, Mr J applied  for an interest only concession. Barclays refused,  because it said it 
needed Mrs Js agreement as well.
More recently, Mrs J has applied for interest  only and other concessions  again,  Barclays 
has refused because it has only had the consent, or financial details of, one of the 
borrowers. 
Mrs J complains that Barclays  hasnt acted sympathetically or tried to help her. She has told 
Barclays that she has a range  of physical and mental health conditions that make it difficult 
for her to manage her finances  and she wants her children to deal with Barclays  on her 
behalf  but she says Barclays has refused to allow  them to represent her. She says she has 
found conversations with Barclays staff unhelpful and upsetting.  
Mrs J also complained that Barclays had allowed Mr J to withdraw substantial funds from the 
MCA in the past,  and she didnt think she should  be responsible for that. Another  
ombudsman said we wouldnt  consider that part of the complaint.
In respect of the rest of the complaint, our investigator didnt think  Barclays  had acted 
unreasonably. So Mrs J asked for an ombudsman to review it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the other ombudsman  that it wouldnt be appropriate  for us to consider the 
complaint about  the balance on the MCA. Thats  as much a dispute  between Mrs J and Mr J 
Ref: DRN10993962as it is a dispute between them and Barclays. And I can see that the court  order post-dated  
the borrowing, and said how both the main  mortgage and the MCA should be dealt with 
following their separation. So the question  of how the MCA borrowing should  be dealt with 
as between Mr J and Mrs J has already been dealt  with by the court  and it wouldnt be 
right for us to re-open the courts decision. So Ill say no more  about this aspect of the 
complaint.
Turning to the rest of the complaint, this is about how Barclays have treated Mrs J and Mr J 
in their financial difficulty. Since their separation and divorce, its clear that both of them have  
been experiencing difficult circumstances,  which have significantly impacted their finances. 
Im sorry  to hear of the difficulties both Mrs J and Mr J have been experiencing. Im sure the 
last few years have been very difficult for them both. 
Their finances  have been such  that neither has been able to make any payments to the 
mortgage  other than a single lump sum  since 2017. The property has been on the 
market since at least 2016.
Although the court  order said that Mr J should  pay the mortgage, hes not been  able to. 
Despite the court order, the mortgage  remains in joint names  meaning both Mrs J and Mr J 
are liable to pay it. So Barclays has been in touch  with both of them,  separately.
It seems  the core of the problem here is difficulties in selling the property. Its been on the 
market for several years without success  and it does seem Mrs J has explored options 
such as reducing the price. Unfortunately,  until its sold, the mortgage payments do need  to 
be made  but neither Mrs J nor Mr J have been able to do so.
That means Barclays needed to contact both Mrs J and Mr J to try and find out their situation  
and see whether anything could be done  to get the mortgage back on track.
Mrs J has complained about how Barclays handled the situation. She says that she wanted it 
to agree to accept  interest only payments  but it wouldnt do so without knowing about both 
their finances, and without  both their agreement. 
In some circumstances,  an interest only concession  might be helpful. Its most suited to 
situations where there is a temporary difficulty,  but the borrowers can still afford to make  part 
of their payments  (paying  the interest  but not the capital). In this case, Mrs J and Mr J 
needed a temporary  concession  while the property was being sold  it couldnt have been 
known in advance  how long that would  take.  But its not clear that they would  have been  
able to afford even  just the interest.  No payments have been made at all for over two years   
so even if Barclays had agreed to accept just the interest, it doesnt seem  likely  to me that 
Mrs J and Mr J would have been able to pay that. I dont  think  I can say, therefore, that it 
was unfair  of Barclays to refuse an interest only concession  since  I dont think  it would 
have made  any difference.
When payment wasnt made  for some time, either to the main  mortgage or the MCA, 
Barclays instructed its solicitors to begin  repossession action. There were several hearings  
including one where its solicitors didnt progress  things in enough time. Barclays  has rightly  
agreed that the costs of that hearing  should  not be added to Mrs J and Mr Js mortgage. But 
that apart,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays  to move to legal action. The 
mortgage was in significant  arrears  with no payments having been made for some time,  and 
no prospect of Mrs J and Mr J being  able to resume payments. While the property was on 
the market, there was no immediate prospect either  of it being sold.
Ref: DRN10993963I do think Barclays could have done  more to assist  Mrs J in the way it dealt with her. Shes  
clearly vulnerable, and although she was initially unwilling to share details of that with 
Barclays  which makes  it harder for Barclays to know how to help  she later did so. 
Barclays has passed Mrs J to its specialist  team, but it could have done so sooner. 
And Barclays could have done  more  to make it easier for Mrs Js children to represent her 
and deal with it on her behalf.  There  were  difficulties in getting  authority in the right form  
not least because  Barclays gave Mrs J incorrect information about  what  would be needed.
However, Ive seen that Barclays has apologised to Mrs J for these failings, and has paid her 
compensation totalling £650. While this was a very difficult  time,  and Barclays failings were 
upsetting for her, I think this is a fair way to put things right. I therefore dont ask Barclays to 
do any more in this respect. 
Moving forward, Mrs J and Mr J  or their children on their behalf  will need  to keep in touch 
with Barclays about the progress of the property sale, as well as discussing whether any 
payments can be made. Current  guidance from the regulator is that, because of the 
coronavirus pandemic, lenders shouldnt take repossession action until February  2021  at the 
earliest. This does  give Mrs J and Mr J some breathing space. But ultimately,  unless they 
can either sell the property or resume making  at least some  mortgage payments, its difficult  
to see what more Barclays  can do.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1099396