K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Covea Insurance  plc refused to deal with his claim against his motor 
insurance policy following  damage to his car. 
background
In June 2018, Mr P contacted Covea in order to make a claim against his policy.  Coveas 
notes of Mr Ps initial phone call record that a named driver on Mr Ps policy was driving on a 
country lane going  to a festival and hit potholes, which damaged  the cars suspension. 
Mr P has subsequently explained  that his car was driven over a series  of large potholes and 
bumps on private land.  
Coveas authorised repairer inspected Mr Ps car. Covea  was concerned  about  the nature  
and extent of the damage and instructed an engineer to provide a report. It subsequently 
refused Mr Ps claim.  Covea said that the damage was caused by mechanical failure, which 
isnt covered under Mr Ps policy.
Mr P doesnt  agree  that the damage was caused  by mechanical failure. Mr P says that his 
car has low mileage and passed an MOT a few days earlier.  He also says that a specialist 
repairer told him that he hadnt encountered shock absorbers having to be replaced because  
of normal wear and tear. Mr P wants Covea to pay the costs  of repairing his car and 
compensation for his inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt  think that Covea had treated Mr P unfairly in refusing his claim. She 
said that Mr Ps policy doesnt cover  damage  caused by mechanical failure and that Covea 
was entitled to rely on the engineers report.  
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the engineers  report  was preliminary, 
inconclusive and invited  further investigations.  He said that the damage wasnt  caused 
exclusively by potholes, as the car was also driven over large humps and bumps. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Mr P has a separate  complaint  about  customer service issues.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue is whether Covea treated Mr P unfairly in refusing his claim. I dont think it 
did and Ill explain why. 
The starting point  is Mr Ps policy, which doesnt  cover mechanical failures, faults  or 
breakdowns. Covea said that the damage  to Mr Ps car was caused  by mechanical failure. In 
reaching that view,  it relied on an engineers report.  I think  that was a reasonable approach. 
Ref: DRN15895372I note that Mr P says that the engineers  report was preliminary, inconclusive  and invited 
further investigations. I think the engineers report was sufficient for Covea to rely on it in 
order to come to its decision about Mr Ps claim.  It said:
The R/H/R Air Suspension  Boot is adrift from the mounting base  and the vehicle is 
not sitting squarely.
There are no obvious  signs of an underside impact
[]
If the vehicle  had gone down a deep  pot hole we would expect to see some 
underside damage  and we cannot  see any areas where road dirt has been removed.
At this stage we feel it is a mechanical failure  of the R/H/R  Air Suspension Boot  
The engineer goes on to say that his view may be revised if other damage is apparent  when 
the car is dismantled.  I dont think that means that Covea  couldnt rely on his report. 
Mr P says that a specialist  repairer told him that he hadnt encountered shock  absorbers 
having to be replaced because of normal wear and tear. Covea didnt rely on the wear and 
tear exclusion in Mr Ps policy.  The engineer instructed by Covea was aware that the shock 
absorbers were damaged,  as his report referred to replacing them  in the Repair Methods 
section of his report. He thought that the damage was caused  by mechanical failure.  
Mr P says that his car has low mileage and passed an MOT  a few days  earlier.  Neither low 
mileage nor an MOT  precludes mechanical failure.  Mr Ps car had mileage of over £66,000, 
which is low for the year of the car. That doesnt mean that mechanical  failure  isnt possible. 
An MOT  checks  certain minimum road safety and environmental standards  but doesnt 
guarantee against mechanical breakdown.  
Mr P says that the engineer  described  the incident  incorrectly. I think the engineer referred to 
a deep pot hole  as Covea recorded  that potholes caused the damage.   
I dont think Covea was obliged to commission a further report before coming  to its decision. 
It said that it would consider any report Mr P provided which showed that the damage was 
accident related.  I think that was fair. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but, considering everything,  I dont  think  that Covea was at fault 
in refusing his claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1589537