K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, wont extend the buy now pay later period under his fixed sum loan agreement  or 
pay him any more compensation. 
background
Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance in January 
2017 to pay for a kitchen to be supplied. The agreement included a twelve  month buy now 
pay later period so Mr Ps first payment to Barclays Partner Finance wasnt due until twelve  
months after the date that it had paid the supplier.  
There were some issues with the kitchen  so Mr P contacted  the supplier and complained to 
the furniture ombudsman. He then made a claim to Barclays Partner Finance in September  
2017 under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  It extended the buy now pay later  
period by three months  but Mr P continued to have issues with the kitchen. The supplier told 
Barclays Partner Finance  in February  2018  that it had agreed to replace the dishwasher 
door, some shelves and a drawer  and Barclays Partner Finance credited £25 
compensation to Mr Ps account. 
He complained to it in March 2018  about  how it had handled his claim. It confirmed that the 
replacement items had been received and credited  a further £125 compensation to Mr Ps 
account. But he complained about the installation (he said that the measurements were 
taken by the supplier  incorrectly) and about  the service that hed received from Barclays  
Partner Finance  and the time that it had taken to deal with his complaint. It credited a further  
£250 to his account as a gesture of goodwill for the time taken  to resolve all the issues and 
agreed a further  extension of the buy now pay later period to April 2018. But Mr P wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Barclays Partner Finance  had extended the buy now pay later period  to April 2019 and she 
wasnt able to make it further extend that period as she hadnt found that there was an 
outstanding breach of contract  by the supplier. And she said that Barclays  Partner Finance 
had accepted that there were delays  and that Mr P had been  inconvenienced   but it had 
paid him £400  in recognition of that and she didnt  think that further compensation would be 
fair or reasonable.
Mr P has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says that the buy 
now pay later period should be extended as the final issues werent resolved until 2019 so 
he hasnt had the benefit of the interest free period. He says that hes received poor service  
from all parties  concerned and its taken  two years to resolve all issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P electronically signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays  Partner  Finance in 
January 2017  which  included  a twelve month  buy now pay later  period so his first payment 
to Barclays Partner Finance wasnt due until twelve months after the date that it had paid the 
supplier. The kitchen was supplied to him in February 2017 and he told Barclays Partner  
Ref: DRN17739792Finance that he was happy with the overall service  so I understand that it then paid the 
supplier. The kitchen was supplied on a supply only basis so the supplier wasnt  responsible  
for installing it.
There were some issues with the kitchen  and Mr P complained to the supplier and the 
furniture ombudsman  before complaining  to Barclays Partner Finance. The supplier  
agreed to replace the dishwasher  door,  some  shelves  and a drawer  in February  2018  and 
Mr P confirmed to Barclays Partner  Finance that hed received those items. Mr P says that 
the issues with the kitchen  werent resolved until early in 2019.  And he complained  to 
Barclays Partner Finance  about the service  that hes received and its delays in dealing  with 
his complaint.
Barclays Partner Finance  says that the account  was fully settled in April 2019 and that its 
had no further  contact from Mr P in relation  to his account and that its not aware  of any 
further issues. So it wouldnt now be possible for the buy now pay later  period to be 
extended. 
I sympathise with Mr P for the difficulties that hes experienced with the kitchen. But Barclays  
Partner Finance  extended the buy now pay later period until April 2019 and it credited total 
compensation of £400 to his account.  And I consider that its response to his complaint has 
been fair and reasonable. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
pay him any further compensation  or to take any other action in response to his complaint.   
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1773979