K821x#15Complaint
Mr N is seeking to recover £55,000  from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from his
bank account  as a result of a third-party  scam.
Background
Mr N made  a payment  of £55,000 on the 20 February 2019  to T, an international money
exchange provider.
In February 2019  Mr N searched online for the possibility of an investment. Mr N explained
that he had money  remaining from the recent  sale of his house, and was looking to invest
this. But he had limited  investment  experience.  He submitted an online form and was
contacted by what he thought was a genuine investment company Ill call P. Unfortunately 
for Mr N he was in fact speaking with fraudsters, who cloned the genuine  firm P. And Mr N 
was persuaded  to invest in what he thought  was an investment bond, with an annual  return 
of 3.9%, for an internationally  renowned  business.
After transferring £55,000 in branch on the 20 February 2019 Mr N was told by P that hed
receive a bond  certificate within 10 working days.  On not receiving the certificate Mr N made  
efforts to contact the fraudsters  which were  unfortunately unsuccessful  and on the
19 March 2019  Mr N found and contacted the main  office number of the genuine investment
firm where he was advised that unfortunately hed been the victim of a scam. On learning
this, Mr N contacted HSBC to complain.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint and thought  that HSBC  should have identified
the transaction as unusual in particular because of the transfer  going  to T. And if they had
done so, and asked appropriate probing  questions of Mr N the scam would have been
identified, and Mr N wouldnt have made the payment.  Our investigator recommended  that
Mr N was refunded the full amount  plus 8% interest.
HSBC didnt accept  our investigators  conclusions. And said in summary:
The ombudsman is in breach of DISP  3.6.4 in summarising our considerations.
Theres a recent  high Court decision  Phillipp  which sets out the legal duties 
against which the banks actions should  be measured in cases  of this nature. Phillipp 
advises that there is no legal  obligation  for the bank  to second guess its customers .
Its not clear what conversations took place in the branch between Mr N and the 
branch staff.
On attending  the branch Mr N provided a copy of the brochure to the branch staff.  
For this reason its understandable that branch staff didnt have any concerns. If Mr N 
had been questioned  further its likely he would have  pointed to the brochure and the 
fact P is an FCA regulated firm.
Mr N hasnt suggested  he isnt knowledgeable about investments. The payment isnt 
out of character or unusual for Mr N. And it isnt surprising that P would take payment 
via T considering  theyre an international company.
Ref: DRN17069662Customers should be expected to carry out reasonable checks and due diligence 
Mr N was in the best position to determine if he should have  invested  in P.
There was a delay  in Mr N contacting  the genuine investment firm after not receiving 
the bond certificate.
Theres no basis for 8% interest being awarded.
As HSBC didnt accept  our investigators conclusions the case was referred to me for a 
decision. 
I reviewed Mr Ns complaint and came to a slightly different conclusion  to our investigator.  I 
wrote to HSBC and Mr N to explain my outcome and to ask for further  comments. 
Mr N accepted my provisional  decision.  He wanted to confirm that immediately following him 
failing to receive the bond certificate  on day 10, he chased it. And made contact  with the 
main office  number of the genuine very soon after.
HSBC didnt accept  it. In response  they said:
They dont accept  Mr N would have  acted any differently even if the bank had 
intervened. 
Its unrealistic  to think so many things could  have been revealed  after questioning in 
the single  branch  visit. The only evidence  available to the bank  the brochure and a 
realistic return  rate  indicated it was a legitimate transaction. 
The bank  doesnt accept that the first payment being made to a currency  exchange 
provider should  have raised concerns. The bank would have been reassured  by the 
brochure and realistic return. And the fact that money  exchange services  can be 
legitimately used  for currency exchange.
 
It was a sophisticated, cloned company with a professional brochure  using a 
money exchange service and making  an international payment (when the genuine P 
is an international company) werent enough to raise concerns. 
Mr N was investing a significant sum, and it was his responsibility to obtain  
appropriate professional advice and to carry out appropriate research. 
Mr N didnt take steps to verify he was dealing with the genuine P.
The bank  doesnt agree that 8% interest  is reasonable. This rate is not reflective of 
the interest Mr N would have achieved on safe investments.
As HSBC didnt accept  my provisional  decision Ive reconsidered my conclusions.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive not changed the 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and Ill explain why below. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN17069663I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr N was the victim of a
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, although
he didnt intend  the money to go to the scammers,  under  the Payment Services  Regulations
2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr N is presumed liable for the loss in
the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions like this, those steps  may include following the Banking Protocol
where appropriate.
Im aware that HSBC  considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of
it in terms of identifying  payments  that might indicate  a consumer is at risk of financial harm;
and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am mindful that the
courts have  interpreted  Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are
different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account of
regulatory and industry  standards  beyond  the narrow legal duties considered  in that and
other court cases.
Im also aware of the recent Phillipp  judgment where  the judge  took a different view about
the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And
notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what
we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account  not
just the law, but also regulators rules  and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what  I
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
The Banking Protocol  is aimed at customers  who are in the process of being  defrauded to
prevent their victimisation and loss of funds. The first question a bank needs to consider
when thinking  about the possibility a customer may be the victim of fraud  is whether the
transaction is unusual  for the customer.  Im satisfied, based on a number of factors, that the
transaction was unusual  for Mr N. I say this firstly  based on the large size of the transaction
 £55,000  and the fact it was to a new payee.  I think even without any other factors  Id
expect HSBC to have asked further questions about the nature of the transaction. But, the
primary factor I think should  have  raised concerns with HSBC  is the destination of the
payment. The payment  was sent to an international money transfer provider, Ill call T. As
Ref: DRN17069664HSBC are aware this is a common  method  of payment for facilitating  fraud.
HSBC havent  provided any evidence of conversations  which  took place in the branch at the
time of the transaction. Ive thought about whether Id expect HSBC  to have asked Mr N
questions at the time of the bank  transfer  and for the reasons Ive outlined above Im
satisfied they should.
Mr N explained that on visiting the branch he was asked about the purpose of the
investment. And he provided the bank a copy of the payment instruction. But he wasnt
asked any further  questions. Ive thought  about what would  have happened  if HSBC had
probed further. Ive taken  on board  HSBCs comments about  the convincing  nature of the
scam. And I agree with them here  the scam  was convincing.  Mr N was provided with a
professional brochure and a realistic return on an investment with an internationally
renowned business. I accept that none  of these factors would  have raised concerns for
HSBC when asking  Mr N more questions about his reasons for making the payment.
However, Id expect HSBC to have significant concerns about the fact the payment was
being made to T. Mr N wasnt  given  a cover story, therefore Im confident hed have advised
HSBC about how he found out about the investment company  and was provided  with the
bank details to make the transfer. Mr N wasnt given any explanation  for why the payment 
would be made  to T.
Im satisfied that It seems  likely if HSBC had asked Mr N questions about why he was
making a payment to T, when P was registered in the UK and the investment bond was for a
UK based company, the bank would have identified concerns  about  the legitimacy of the
payment. And, but for HSBCs failure  to highlight this to Mr N  in an appropriate and
sensitive way  the scam  would probably  not have succeeded.
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if HSBC have highlighted the unusual
nature of the payment  to T are reinforced by Mr Ns actions after making the £55,000
payment. Mr N expected  to receive  a bond certificate within  10 days   soon after this hadnt
arrived Mr N attempted to contact the fraudsters and on being unable  to get hold of them,  on
the 19 March  2019  he found  and contacted the main  office number of the genuine
investment firm. At which  point he found at hed been the victim of a scam. Mr N made
contact with HSBC  soon after this. But by then it was too late  the funds had been removed
from the scammers account with T. However, if HSBC had correctly  highlighted the concern
of making the payment to T it seems likely Mr N would have carried  out more  research   and
as he did on the 19 March 2019  discovered  that he wasnt  dealing  with the genuine
investment company. The fraud  would have  failed; and Mr N wouldnt have lost £55,000.
In light of my conclusions above,  it isnt necessary in this case  to consider whether the bank
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the payee
bank before they were irretrievably removed  by the scammers. But for completeness,  Ive
seen evidence that HSBC contacted T within the required time frame.  However,
unfortunately by this point no funds remained.
Ive also considered whether Mr N should  bear some  responsibility by way of contributory
negligence. However, its clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payment,
he had no idea he was subject to a scam and wasnt aware of the consequences of his
actions. HSBC have  queried whether Mr N carried out any research on P or the money
exchange service  T before making  the payment to them.  Mr N says that he was reassured
because he was investing in an internationally renowned company and the professional
nature of the brochure which HSBC agree looked  genuine and convincing.  And I wouldnt
Ref: DRN17069665expect Mr N to be aware  that making  a payment to T might be concerning, or an indication  of
a scam. Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, he was simply
the unwitting and blameless victim  of a clever  fraudster.  Mr N wasnt an experienced
investigator and the bank  was the professional in financial matters.
HSBC responded  to our investigators  view with a number of additional points, including  the
fact that the view summarised  our relevant considerations, and is a breach of DISP 3.6.4. Im
mindful however  that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced the relevant rules,  codes
of practice and good industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions, both to HSBC
and published  on our website.
In the circumstances Im satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr N for the
loss he suffered without  any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for being
deprived of the money he lost. Im satisfied that Mr N has been  deprived of these funds,
including the possibility of using the funds for other  genuine investments.
I also think its appropriate to make an award  of £300 for the distress  and inconvenience
Mr N has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that his loss was ultimately
caused by the actions  of the fraudsters  and it was an authorised transaction, but HSBC
could ultimately have prevented the payments.
Provisional decision response:
HSBC responded  with a number of points  to my provisional decision. Firstly they argued  that 
there wasnt anything  for the bank to be concerned about when processing the disputed 
payment   they highlighted that there was a professional brochure and Mr N was due to 
receive a realistic return rate. 
I explained in my provisional decision  that although I agree initially  because  of the 
professional nature of the brochure and realistic return rate there wasnt anything for HSBC  
to be concerned about once the bank  identified that the payment was going to T I think they 
ought to have considered the possibility of a scam. As I explained in my provisional decision 
Im satisfied that the payment  being  made to a money exchange  service  should have raised 
fraud concerns with the bank. HSBC  have explained that a money exchange  service  can be 
legitimately used for currency exchange  which of course is the case. But Ive no reason to 
think Mr N wouldnt  have been  open  and honest with HSBC  had they asked him reasonable 
questions about  why the payment was going  to T. And considering, as HSBC  accept, Mr N 
had a brochure for an investment I think it was clear Mr N wasnt  making  this payment as a 
form of currency exchange. Instead he was requested  by the fraudsters to send the payment 
to T for an investment bond which Im satisfied HSBC, as the expects in scams and financial 
crime, should have  found very suspicious. Id expect them to be concerned  not just because  
of the unusual destination of the payment, but also the large size and that Mr N hadnt made 
any payments to P before. 
Ive considered HSBCs  further argument that they dont accept Mr N would have acted any 
differently even if the bank had intervened. But Im afraid I dont agree here. As I explained in 
my provisional decision the first concerns Mr N had were  when  he didnt receive the bond  
certificate within 10 working days. Mr Ns explained  immediately  after the 10 working days 
expired he tried to contact  the fraudsters and phoned the main  office  number for the genuine 
P soon  after.  Im satisfied  that if HSBC had identified  the surprising nature of the payment 
destination and raised the possibility of an investment scam with Mr N, along with advice on 
Ref: DRN17069666next steps, Mr N would have likely contacted the genuine P much  sooner and discovered 
hed been taken in by scam before making the payment. 
HSBC have also argued that Mr N failed to carry out due diligence, it was his responsibility  
to obtain appropriate professional advice and carry out sufficient  research. And Mr N didnt 
take steps to verify he was dealing with the genuine P. Ive reconsidered HSBCs argument 
about the level of due diligence Mr N carried out, and whether he should bear some 
responsibility by way of contributory negligence.  I accept that Mr N didnt contact the 
genuine P before making the scam payment. However I wouldnt necessarily expect him to 
do so in the circumstances. And Ill explain why. As HSBC  themselves have highlighted  the 
brochure Mr N had been provided  with was professional and he thought he was dealing with 
an internationally renowned company. The banks argued that there  were  likely clues in 
Mr Ns conversations  with the fraudsters  that he wasnt dealing with the genuine  company, 
however its important for me to consider  that Mr N wasnt an experienced investor  
whereas HSBC are the professional in financial matters and experts in scams. Therefore, I 
wouldnt necessarily expect Mr N to identify  these concerns in the same way a bank would. 
Id argue that if HSBC had asked further reasonable questions, as Id have expected them  to 
do in branch, any clues highlighting the possibility of a scam  in conversations  between  Mr N 
and the fraudsters would likely have been  picked up by the bank. 
HSBC have suggested that 8% is a punitive  rate of interest that isnt fair to apply in the 
circumstances of this complaint. They  say this will result in Mr N being in a better position to 
the banks detriment. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Im not suggesting that Mr N 
would have otherwise invested and achieved a return of 8%. But, given the average  costs of 
borrowing over time,  it has long been our approach that this is a suitable rate to compensate  
for being deprived of the funds and I remain satisfied it is fair to apply it in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
In conclusion, Ive considered the new arguments  presented by HSBC  but Im satisfied that 
the bank should have  had significant concerns about the payment going to T, warranting 
further questions. And it seems likely if the bank  had asked Mr N further  questions  about the 
payment going  to T  considering P was registered  in the UK and the investment bond  was 
for a UK company   theyd have advised Mr N to carry out further research before making  
the payment,  including contacting the genuine  P. But for HSBCs failure to highlight this to 
Mr N, the scam would likely not have  succeeded. 
Ref: DRN17069667My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Plc to:
-Refund Mr N £55,000 plus 8% interest from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement.
-Pay Mr N £300 compensation.
Any tax lawfully due on the interest  may be deducted if needs be, with the bank providing a  
tax deduction  certificate  to Mr N so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2021.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1706966