K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited unreasonably handled a claim against 
his motor insurance policy.
background 
Mr B had an Ageas policy to insure his car. After an incident in a car park Mr B rang his 
broker. The broker is a separate business  to Ageas and wasn't representing it when Mr B 
spoke with it. Mr B told the broker that another driver had alleged Mr Bs passenger had 
struck their car when the passenger opened  the door on Mr Bs car. Mr B said he told the 
broker there'd been no contact between the cars,  no damage  and he was in no way at fault 
for the incident.  But he later learned that Ageas had settled the other drivers claim without 
telling him. And that had affected  his premiums. 
Ageas told Mr B that the broker  had told it that Mr Bs passenger had opened his car door 
and hit another car. So it felt it had little option  but to settle the claim. Mr B said that wasn't 
how the incident happened and again said thered been no contact between  the cars.  He 
brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 August 2019. For ease I've copied  my provisional  
findings below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.
Ageas says that the account of the incident  Mr Bs broker gave to it was clear  that Mr B (by 
virtue of the actions of his passenger) was at fault for the damage to the other drivers car. It 
added that the broker  told it that theyd sent Mr B a copy of his statement in which he 
admitted liability for the incident. 
I've listened  to the call when the broker reported  the incident  to Ageas. Having done so it's 
clear that the broker told Ageas that Mr B - or his passenger  - was at fault for it, although 
Mr B said neither car was damaged. And I think  in the circumstances it was reasonable that 
Ageas could rely on what the broker told it. From Ageas perspective it felt Mr B had 
accepted liability  for the incident,  that a door on his car had hit another car. And as far as 
Ageas was aware the broker was simply representing what  Mr B had already said.  So it 
thought it would have no option but to pay a claim.  
Also I've noted  that the cost of the repairs was consistent with a minor incident that Ageas 
thought that the broker had described.  And Ageas engineers were happy  to authorise the 
repairs. In those circumstances  where  - as far as it was aware - Mr B had accepted  liability  
for an incident, I think it was fair that it decided to settle the other drivers claim.
But Ageas didn't get everything  right. When it responded  to Mr Bs complaint it said that Mr B 
had opened his car door into the path of a passing car. But that isn't what the broker had 
said. The broker didn't  say the other car was passing; just that it was in a car park.  
Also Ageas said Mr B had given the broker  a written version of events  where hed admitted 
hed opened  the door into the other car. But that doesn't accurately represent what  the 
broker said. Instead what the broker actually said was that theyd  emailed the statement 
Ref: DRN13782892that he's [Mr B] obviously given us. I think the broker was referring to what Mr B had told 
them over the phone.  But it appears Ageas had misunderstood the brokers reference to 
statement and assumed  that was in writing, when that wasn't the case.  So I can 
understand why Mr B found it frustrating that Ageas had apparently referred  to a written 
statement hes supposed to have given when Mr B knew he hadn't  provided anything in 
writing admitting liability.
Mr B is also unhappy that Ageas didn't tell him it had settled the other drivers claim. Ageas 
did write to Mr B to let him know it was looking into the incident. But it didn't then send him 
anything else to tell him it had settled the claim and how much that had cost. I don't think  
that was fair. Ageas said Mr B knew it was looking at the claim and that hed accepted 
liability so it didn't need to tell him about  the outcome of the claim.  But I don't think thats  
reasonable.
Apart from the fact that in this case Mr B wasn't  expecting Ageas to settle the claim, I think 
its good practice for insurers  to let their policyholders know  the outcome of a claim.  As other  
insurers and price comparison websites  will usually ask for details of how claims have been 
settled and the amounts for those  when providing quotes. So I think  its important that 
insurers provide their policyholders  with clear and accurate information  once  claims are 
settled to prevent  their customers from mistakenly making a misrepresentation as to their 
claims history  when  asking for quotes.
Also, in this instance, the cost of repairs to the other  drivers  car was relatively small. So 
Mr B might have wished to think about buying back the claim from Ageas, so that it would 
go down as a non-fault  claim on his insurance  history. 
But Ageas didn't take any steps  to notify Mr B of the claim  outcome. So I don't think  it dealt 
with him fairly. And this has clearly  been a source of distress  and inconvenience for him. So, 
to put things right I think it should pay him £100 compensation.
For completeness Mr B also told us that his protected  no claims discount (NCD) had been 
affected by the incident when that shouldnt have happened. But Ageas has confirmed that 
Mr Bs protected NCD has remained at 9 years, as it was before the incident.
developments 
Ageas acknowledged that it had misunderstood the reference to Mr Bs statement. And 
said it would  agree to the £100 compensation on that basis.  But it didn't agree with some of 
my other findings. In particular it didn't think it needed to tell Mr B about the outcome of the 
claim or that it should  have offered him the opportunity to buy it back.
Mr B provided more detail  about  the incident  itself and that what  the broker  told Ageas in no 
way mirrored what hed told the broker.
Mr B added that Ageas had provided two pieces of misinformation: first the letter  in which 
he admitted liability;  second  the comment that hed opened the door into the oncoming car. 
Mr B doesn't accept  that these  were mistakes. He said that Ageas clearly  believed it had on 
file his written version of events. And asked where  the comment  about the second point had 
come from.  Concerning his protected NCD,  he said that his point was that the broker had 
told him that, because  of this incident, he now has two fault claims in three years so his 
protected no claims can't  be reinstated and this has affected his premiums.
Ref: DRN13782893my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I don't intend  to amend 
my provisional decision. 
Ageas doesn't think it needed to tell Mr B about  the outcome  of the claim. It said Mr B didn't 
ask to be kept informed and that doing so wasn't a standard process.  It said it felt that my 
comments on the matter  were a personal opinion alone. But I don't agree.
As I said in my provisional decision when insurers don't provide their customers with the 
outcome of claims decisions then those  customer might inadvertently misrepresent a claim 
outcome when applying for polices with other insurers or online.  That could cause serious 
problems for consumers who could face the prospect of having  claims not paid and/or 
policies voided.  And that is one reason why I think this is a good practice. Also my 
understanding is that this is a view generally  shared by my colleagues  at this service. So its 
not simply a personal  opinion. There might be rare occasions where  it's not reasonable or 
pragmatic to take that action. But I don't think this is one such case.
Similarly, Ageas said it doesn't feel it should have  to offer Mr B, or any other consumer, the 
option to buy-back a claim.  I agree  thats the case.  I didn't say that Ageas was under any 
such obligation. My point was that, in the circumstances of this case, given  that Ageas outlay 
was relatively small this might have  been an option  Mr B would have wished to consider if 
Ageas had made him aware of the costs of the claim sooner. That would have meant that by 
repaying the claim it wouldn't be recorded as a fault claim. And so would be less likely to 
affect his future premium.  But Ageas didn't  make  him aware of the costs.
I take Mr Bs point that the version  of events he gave to his broker didn't  mirror  the version 
the broker gave  to Ageas. But in this decision Im only looking at Ageas actions. And, as I 
said in my provisional decision, given the evidence in front of it, I think  Ageas decision to 
settle the claim as it did was reasonable, regardless that the broker might not have 
accurately repeated what Mr B told it. 
Mr B said he believed  Ageas thought it had a copy of his written  letter  admitting liability  in 
its possession. But I don't agree. Theres simply no evidence, beyond  Mr Bs comments,  that 
Ageas ever thought it had Mr Bs written statement in its possession.  Indeed Ageas was 
open with us from the outset that the evidence it held of Mr B allegedly  admitting liability was 
provided on the phone by the brokers. And having  listened to that call, I can understand why 
it didn't think it needed  further evidence as the broker clearly said that Mr B had accepted 
liability. The reference  to a written statement only arose after Mr B had complained. Again 
the evidence in support of this took place in a conversation between  the broker  and Ageas. 
That conversation happened when the broker was advising Ageas of Mr Bs complaint. And 
the broker clearly referred to having emailed  the statement  that hed [Mr B] obviously given 
to us. So given that, generally, something emailed is often in writing  I can see how the 
confusion would have  arisen. And it's clear  that Ageas wrongly thought  that the broker  had 
emailed Mr Bs written statement back to him.  
Also, Ageas was also plainly wrong to say that Mr B was alleged to have  opened the car 
door into the path of an oncoming car. But this mistake was made  when responding to the 
complaint. I can't see anywhere else on file prior to its complaint response that it made  a 
decision based on a misunderstanding about how the alleged incident  took place. So while  I 
can understand how frustrating Mr B would have found Ageas mistakes here, I don't think 
Ref: DRN13782894theres any evidence  of other reports that gave a different version of events to that provided  
by the broker.
Finally, it seems that the fault claim is affecting Mr Bs ability  to reinstate his NCD protection  
and also his premiums.  But as I've indicated in my provisional decision and above,  I think  
that Ageas made a reasonable decision in the circumstances. Its very unfortunate for Mr B 
that the liability decision is having  an effect  on his NCD  and premiums.   But I don't think 
thats because  Ageas did anything wrong in respect of its liability  decision. 
That said,  for the reasons I gave in my provisional  decision  and above,  I think Ageas should 
pay Mr B £100 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. It 
should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr B has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay simple interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
my final decision to the date it makes  payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Ageas pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1378289