K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance plc.  They think they were mis-sold the policy  because  of excessive 
premiums. 
background 
Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy started with St Andrews in 2005 and cost £543.61 for the 
year. For 2014 the renewal quote  was £1,241.85. Mr and Mrs B contacted St Andrews in 
2014 to discuss  their premium. It appears they were offered a discount but decided not to 
renew their policy with St Andrews. 
Mr and Mrs B say they trusted St Andrews,  but found they were being  overcharged.  
St Andrews  offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance  for the 2011 premium 
onward. It offered  £691.36 as a refund of some of the premiums  and 8% additional 
compensation for Mr and Mrs B being  out of pocket  of that money. St Andrews has also 
offered a further  £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B have been 
caused. Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve  things.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and didnt  think the offer was fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the offer thats 
been made by St Andrews is fair. Ill explain why.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would 
be, in effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not 
my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews  has treated  Mr and Mrs B fairly 
throughout the period  they held their insurance policy. If I find that St Andrews hasnt 
treated Mr and Mrs B fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be fair and in 
this case whether I think St Andrews offer is fair. 
In 2005, Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance cost £543.61 for the year.  Often new 
policies will have an introductory  discount  applied. This isnt uncommon and policies 
may well initially be priced lower to attract new customers. I dont  think its unfair for 
an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the first few years.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs Bs premiums continued to increase each year and they 
didnt engage  with St Andrews about  their premiums until 2014. They  say their 
mortgage adviser suggested they were being overcharged and that they use price 
comparison websites for more economical  cover.  They decided not to renew their 
home insurance policy with St Andrews at this point.  If St Andrews increased the 
price just because Mr and Mrs B didnt engage at each renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
St Andrews has offered  to refund some of the costs of the insurance premiums  from 
2011 onwards.   
St Andrews has offered to keep Mr and Mrs Bs premiums  from 2011 at the same 
amount they were  charged in 2010  £858.88. So it will refund  the difference on the 
Ref: DRN19893762payments they made on their premiums  from 2011 until 2014  when the policy was 
cancelled. For example, St Andrews has offered to refund the difference between 
the 2010 premium  (£858.88)  and 2011 premium (£1,016.71), plus interest.  And its 
done this for every  yearly premium after 2010.  St Andrews total offer is £691.36 plus 
interest of 8% for the time they were out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs B say they are now paying  much less for a like-for-like policy.  They  say 
they think the offer should reflect the amount they couldve saved had they switched 
insurer. Ive thought about this. But I must  take into account that these wouldve been 
new policies being quoted  in 2014 so Mr B and Mrs B possibly received a discount 
on the premium well. So this doesnt make me think St Andrews acted unfairly.   
Mr and Mrs B think they should be offered a substantially larger figure  and compare it 
to other  complaint  issues dealt  with by financial institutions where  full refunds were 
offered. Ive thought about this but it doesnt  change my decision. Mr and Mrs B 
always wouldve had insurance  that they would have to pay for so if a full refund was 
given, theyd be in a better position than they wouldve been. Ive looked  at this 
complaint individually and on its own merits and think the offer made by St Andrews 
is a fair one. It makes  sure Mr and Mrs B havent  lost out if St Andrews did increase 
the price just because  they didnt engage  at each  renewal.  I also think  St Andrews 
additional compensation offer of £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused 
to Mr and Mrs B is fair.
Finally, Mr and Mrs B say the policy was mis-sold because of excessive  premiums.  
We dont know much about what happened when  Mr and Mrs B agreed to take this 
policy out in 2005,  which isnt surprising  given the length of time thats passed. But St 
Andrews has told us this policy  was taken out a replace a previous policy because it 
was cheaper,  for the same cover. So its likely  Mr and Mrs B would have  understood 
what they were taking out, including the price,  and were happy with it at the time. 
Just because Mr and Mrs B have been able to get a cheaper  policy  more  recently,  
this doesnt mean they were mis-sold the policy in question  in 2005. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrews Insurance plc offer to refund some of the costs  of 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy from 2011 is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance plcs additional  compensation  offer of £100  for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr and Mrs B is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 November  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1989376