K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about Cutpay merchant services  Limited handling of his merchant services  
agreement.
background
In November 2017, Mr L took out a merchant  services  agreement with Cutpay. Mr L said the 
advisor from Cutpay told him they would reimburse  his termination costs  for an existing 
agreement he had with another  provider, as part of moving to them.
Around March  2018, Mr L received a default  notice from his previous provider as the fees 
had not been paid.  The total fee was around  £764.   Mr L was then sent court  notices 
including a claim form from the county court and said he had to pay his old provider costs.
Mr L contacted Cutpay to request confirmation the fees would be paid - and in August 2018 
Cutpays advisor told Mr L he would be reimbursed the termination costs.
In November 2018, Mr L said he still hadnt received the reimbursement from Cutpay so he 
paid the previous provider  himself.
Cutpay said it wasnt their policy  to buy customers out of previous contracts  so their 
advisor shouldnt  have told him they could. They offered to pay half of the termination  fee.
Mr L wasnt happy with this, he said Cutpay should  pay the full termination  and court costs 
hed incurred, so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  recommended we uphold Mr Ls complaint. He thought Mr L signed the 
agreement with Cutpay  because their advisor said they would cover  his termination fees. So, 
he thought Cutpay should put things right by reimbursing the termination  fees plus 8% 
interest. Our investigator didnt think Cutpay should  pay Mr Ls court fees as Mr L couldve 
mitigated this loss by paying the termination  fee when it became due.  
Mr L and Cutpay accepted our Investigators findings but Cutpay hasnt been in touch  with 
Mr L since. Mr L has now asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see both Mr L and Cutpay have agreed with our Investigators  recommendation. 
Having looked  at everything, I think what our Investigator has said sounds fair and 
reasonable.
I can see the advisor told Mr L in August 2018  in an email he would be reimburse the 
termination costs.  Cutpay said their advisor didnt have the authorisation to promise 
Mr L this. But the advisor  was acting on behalf  of Cutpay,  and I think Mr L wouldnt have 
agreed to switch to Cutpay if the advisor  hadnt promised to reimburse the costs. So, I think 
Mr L has lost out as a result of something  Cutpay  did wrong.
Ref: DRN16844732Mr L received a notice  of default from his previous provider in March 2018, Mr L paid the 
fees in November 2018, and he said this included court costs. Although  I appreciate Mr L 
chased Cutpay  for the reimbursement for the fees, I think he couldve mitigated his 
circumstances and avoid  the costs by paying  the termination costs  to the previous provider 
in the meantime. So, I dont think Cutpay should cover these costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
To put things right I require Cutpay merchant services Limited to reimburse Mr L for the 
termination costs  from his previous provider - with 8% simple interest per annum added from 
the date the termination  fee became due to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1684473