K822xcomplaintMr and Mrs W are unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited  (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
background 
Mr and Mrs W were contacted by My Planet, a company  that supplied  and installed solar  
panel systems. Following  a meeting,  Mr and Mrs W agreed to enter into a contract  with My 
Planet for it to supply and install a solar  panel system costing about £7,400. To fund this Mr 
and Mrs W also agreed to enter  into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement  with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA via their representative. The 
representative said that My Planet had told Mr and Mrs W that the solar panels would be 
self-funded and that the monthly  loan repayments would be more  than off-set by the feed-
in-tariff (FIT) income and the savings from using  electricity generated by their solar panel 
system rather  than buying it from their energy provider. But that hadnt  happened.  Instead, 
the monthly loan repayments had been much  higher than the income.
Shawbrook did offer to amend Mr and Mrs Ws loan amount so that they wouldnt  pay any 
more than the system  would generate in benefits  over the 10 year term of the loan. It also 
offered £200 for any trouble and upset caused. Unhappy  with this response,  Mr and Mrs W 
referred the complaint to our service.
Shawbrook were also made aware  that Mr and Mrs Ws solar  panel system hadnt been 
working since around March 2018. And because  of this Mr and Mrs W werent  receiving any 
benefits from the system.  Shawbrook arranged for a solar panel company to visit their home 
to investigate why the panels werent working  and to carry out any repairs that may have  
been needed.
The solar  panel  company  identified an issue with Mr and Mrs Ws system. It offered to carry 
out the repair work, and offered a one year workmanship  guarantee, but Mr and Mrs W 
declined this as they wanted the system removed from their home.
Following this Shawbrook  proposed to increase its offer by around £700 to cover  any loss of 
FIT payments between  April 2018  and June 2019. It didnt  offer to cover the payments for 
any longer as Mr and Mrs W had declined to have the repair work carried out. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He felt Shawbrooks  offer to make  
the system self-financing was fair. He also felt the compensation Shawbrook had offered for 
the lost FIT payments and trouble and upset caused was fair in the circumstances.
Shawbrook accepted our investigators  view. Mr and Mrs F, via their representative,  didnt. In 
summary it said:
Shawbrook should pay for the removal of the solar panels and the cost of making  good  
and making good any damage  to the roof caused  by the installation and removal of the 
panels.
Shawbrook should return all the monies paid by Mr and Mrs W minus the value of any 
benefits they had received.
Ref: DRN14651582It also said an alternative to the above would be for:
Shawbrook to make the loan self-funding  over the original term of the loan,
Cover the cost of the remedial work identified by the solar panel  company.
Cover the cost of maintenance over the 20 year lifetime of the solar panel  system.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W say they were cold-called  and during a sales  meeting told that the solar  
panels would be entirely self-financing. Having carefully considered  the available evidence,  
like the investigator I think that My Planet did misrepresent the benefits of the solar panel  
system. Shawbrook has accepted the investigators  view and as a result  this decision will 
deal with what I consider  to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there  had been no misrepresentation.  However,  here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from their home.  Rather, I think  the 
fair outcome here is to put Mr and Mrs W in a position where the panels  are self-funding  over 
the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr and Mrs W to keep the panels, I am satisfied 
that they will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going  forward (i.e. 
after the term of the loan has finished).
Mr and Mrs Ws representative says that they were  told that the loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT. So Ive considered whether any electricity savings should  be taken into 
account when  arriving at fair compensation.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W were misled into thinking that the solar panels  would be self-
funding and so on that basis I need  to decide  fair compensation. When  thinking about  that 
question, I think  its fair to take account  of the electricity generated by the solar  panel units. 
On the one hand Mr and Mrs W have to pay their loan and for any electricity used in addition  
to that generated by the panels and on the other  they can off-set  those payments by the FIT 
payments and the savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. It would 
be unfair to ignore the electricity  generated and used by Mr and Mrs W when calculating  fair 
compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. 
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr and Mrs Ws solar panel  system. 
Ref: DRN14651583Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr and 
Mrs Ws solar panels it will use a number of assumptions.  These include using a self-
consumption rate of 37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr and Mrs Ws 
solar panels  that they are  expected to use rather than buying  electricity from their energy 
provider. 
It is clear is that self-consumption is impacted by the period of time someone is in their home  
and able to use, or self-consume,  the electricity their solar panel system  is generating.  Im 
satisfied that using a self-consumption  rate of 37% is fair and reasonable in this case. Im of 
the opinion that this takes into account changing  consumer occupancy  habits over the 
lifetime of the solar  panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, as it has in this case, Im 
satisfied that it is highly likely Mr and Mrs W will continue  to benefit from the system as a 
result of a reduction in their electricity bills because of the electricity generated by the panels  
and the FIT payments. 
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Shawbrook, including electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by Shawbrook provide a 
fair and reasonable basis for calculating  fair compensation.
Ive also considered the offer made by Shawbrook to for the period when Mr and Mrs Ws 
solar panels  werent  working. This offer covers  from April 2018  to June 2019. It didnt feel it 
should offer any additional FIT payments beyond the end of June 2019  as Mr and Mrs W 
declined to have  the necessary repair work carried out. It based  the loss of generation on 
historic industry data and increased in line with an assumed RPI of 2.5%
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  this part of the offer is fair. I think  it suitably 
compensates Mr and Mrs W for the loss of FIT during the period. I dont consider it 
unreasonable for Shawbrook not to offer any additional compensation beyond June 2019.  
This is because it offered  to put right the issue with the solar  panels at this point, but Mr and 
Mrs W chose  not to have the repair work carried out. So Im of the view that they had an 
opportunity to mitigate any further loss. 
I turn now to consider on-going maintenance costs and the repair costs identified by the 
solar panel  company. 
Shawbrook has agreed that it is still willing to arrange and pay for the repair works that were 
identified by the solar  panel company it sent to inspect Mr and Mrs Ws solar panel  system. I 
consider this to be fair and reasonable.
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels  dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter  will need replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a current  cost of about £800.  And this is the 
part that Creation have  offered to pay to be repaired.
I accept that a consumer  could  have  some maintenance and repair  costs  over the lifetime of 
the solar panels.  The proposed approach to put things right for the consumer is to make the 
solar panels  self-funding over the original  term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid, 
as Ive already  outlined  above, Mr and Mrs W are highly likely  to enjoy significant benefit 
from the solar panel system by way of savings and the FIT income going forward.  In 
Ref: DRN14651584addition, Mr and Mrs W have already paid back the loan and will get back a lump  sum to 
cover their overpayments together with interest.  
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Mr and Mrs W will be able to use their compensation 
payment to pay for a replacement inverter if necessary.
Because of the reasons  Ive given above Im not persuaded that the business should  make 
any further award for maintenance and repairs costs apart from carrying out the repair  work 
identified by the solar  panel company it sent to inspect Mr and Mrs Ws system. 
Shawbrook has agreed that as long as Mr and Mrs W can provide it with a copy  of their 
warranty, and it can be evidenced that it formed part of the initial contract, it will honour  the 
warranty. This doesnt guarantee the outcome of any future  claim but, if Mr and Mrs W 
experience any system  issues within the original warrantee period, theyd be entitled to raise  
a claim under the warranty  and Shawbrook will consider it under the terms of the warranty.
I am satisfied the £200 compensation offered to Mr and Mrs W y Shawbrook  is sufficient to 
recognise the trouble and upset theyve  been caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a)allow Mr and Mrs W to keep the solar  panels,
(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs W from the panels over the 
10 year term of the loan and rework  it so they pay no more than this. Where possible, 
it should use Mr and Mrs Ws electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,  
(d)arrange and pay for the repair work  identified  by the solar panel company  in June 
2019,
(e)pay Mr and Mrs W the amount it had worked  for the period April 2018 to June 2019  
when the panels  stopped working,  and;
(f)pay Mr and Mrs W £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14651585*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much itss taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
claim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN1465158