K822xcomplaint
Ms R is unhappy with the way her home insurance  claim for subsidence damage  to her 
garage and subsequent remedial repairs was handled by U K Insurance Limited (UKI).  
background
Ms R first made her claim  in March 2010.  It took around five years for the work to begin, as 
trees belonging to the local authority were identified as the cause and there were lengthy 
negotiations about removing them. There were  also delays in obtaining  consent  agreements 
from the neighbours under the Party Wall Act. The works were essentially complete by 
April 2015. But then Ms R noticed water  was leaking into the garage.  Further  drainage was 
installed. But Ms R advised that the roof was still leaking. UKI agreed to an independent 
inspection. A report was issued in February  2016  identifying further remedial works that were 
needed. 
Ms R made a complaint to this service which resulted in an adjudication, in June 2016, 
concerning the way forward for further works.  Ms R accepted our findings. The works were 
then delayed as it was found  that planning permission was required. This was issued in 
September 2017. 
Ms R contacted UKI and asked for a cash settlement for the repairs.  UKI put forward  such a 
settlement, based on its schedule of works,  in February 2018. And in March  2018 Ms R 
accepted the settlement. The issue of compensation had still to be determined. During the 
course of the matter  UKI had made  several  payments of compensation, totalling £1,000.
Ms R had remained in contact with this service and in March  2018, a new complaint was set 
up. Our investigator  reviewed the matter and determined that Ms R should receive a further 
£2,000 compensation.
Ms R didnt accept this  she said it wasnt enough  considering she had to pay towards  the 
repairs to the driveway for damage caused by contractors vans. She further  said that the 
cash settlement wasnt enough for her to pay private contractors.
Our investigator put it to UKI that it should  pay the difference  in the cost to Ms R of having  
the work  done  and the settlement paid. UKI disagreed, saying  it had made a fair settlement 
in accordance with the policy terms. It also acknowledged that it had provided a poor service  
but said Ms R being out of the country a lot had contributed to the delays. It proposed that it 
should pay a further £1,000.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that UKI should pay Ms R a further £2,000 
compensation. But I thought that as Ms R had freely  agreed the settlement with UKI, I 
couldnt reasonably require UKI to increase it.
UKI accepted my decision
Ms R accepted my decision  for the main part but thought  the award should be increased by 
£1,000 to cover UKIs liability towards repairing the driveway and to account for part of the 
repairs to the garage she felt werent  included in the settlement. Ill address her points in my 
findings below.
Ref: DRN12562122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made  the following provisional;  findings:
delays
Whilst I take the point  that Ms R did a lot of travelling abroad,  she was always  contactable. 
There were clearly very substantial delays  in getting  the work underway. Essentially  it took 
five years.  I am aware that a local authority can be very difficult when it comes to removing 
trees and it was to be expected that this would take some time,  but five years I think  is far 
too long. I think  UKI should have been  more proactive to resolve  this.
As for the delays in carrying out the remedial repairs, these appear to be due to the fact that 
planning permission  had to be applied for retrospectively, when it should  have been  applied 
for before the work started. And despite Ms R telling UKIs contractors on a number of 
occasions, this wasnt done until after the proposed  settlement was put forward in June 
2016. The planning permission was issued in September  2017, but I understand Ms R didnt 
want work to start until the new year. Then  in January 2018 she advised  that she wanted a 
cash settlement, which UKI offered to her, and she accepted.
I consider that there were  substantial avoidable delays, both in the original work, and then 
because of the planning permission issue.
loss of use of the garage
During the time the garage  was out of action, Ms R lost the use of her garage as a storage 
area. UKI paid for storage of items but she had to keep some of her belongings in her guest  
bedroom, meaning she lost the use of that room, and couldnt have friends and family to 
stay. As her family live overseas this caused Ms R some difficulties.
Ms R has also said during the claim that she wanted  to sell her flat and garage.  Shes been 
unable to do this whilst  the work remained  outstanding.
lack of communication/ builders conduct
There was very poor communication between the loss adjusters and Ms R throughout the 
claim. She frequently  had to chase for information. I understand that Ms R was abroad 
frequently but this wasnt for extended periods and she was, as Ive said,  contactable.
Ms R contends she had to put up with constant insults from the builders, when she pointed 
out issues with the build.  And she feels vindicated  she pointed  out that engineered bricks 
should have been used  below the damp course,  when ordinary bricks were  used and 
became damp. She also pointed out the need for planning consent and her concerns were 
dismissed.
Its difficult for me to say the builders  were rude to Ms R as I wasnt there. I only have Ms Rs 
word for it that she was insulted.  I can understand that the builders wouldnt have welcomed 
criticism, but as Ms R has pointed out she was vindicated  on a couple  of issues. I wont  
make a specific finding as to the builders conduct but I will take into account that in part 
Ref: DRN12562123because her criticisms were  ignored, further  remedial  work has had to be carried out. I 
accept this must have  been frustrating for Ms R.
difficulties with neighbours
UKI had to contact the neighbours about  the Party Wall Act application.  Ms R feels she 
should have been involved in this, as it caused her problems with her neighbours, especially 
as it had to be done  twice.  Also the contractors  were on site for many months, and had to 
use the shared  drive.  
I can understand that the neighbours would have  been annoyed and were caused 
inconvenience. And the Party Wall Act application could have been dealt with more  
sensitively especially the second time around. Unfortunately such  a claim was always  going 
to cause an unavoidable disruption.  But I do take account of the fact that as the repairs  were 
prolonged due to poor workmanship this did cause extra  disruption  that wasnt an 
unavoidable result of the claim.
Neither party has made any further  comments concerning these issues so my provisional  
findings on them are now final.
damage to the shared drive
I made  the following provisional  findings:
Ms R asserts  that the contractors caused considerable damage to the shared drive.  This 
was considered in the adjudication of June 2016.  UKI had accepted  that some damage  was 
done to the driveway and agreed with Ms R on the necessary repairs and paid for those 
repairs to be done. But UKI asserted that the driveway was already in a poor condition and 
shared by five garages. We agreed  that from the photos the driveway did appear to be worn.  
In our adjudication, which  Ms R accepted,  we pointed  out that UKI was willing  to reconsider 
the point if Ms R obtained an expert  report to show the damage caused by its contractors 
was more extensive. 
As far as I can see, no such report has been  produced. Ms R asserts that the cost of repair 
to the drive is over £12,500 and that she has had to pay a greater share than the other  users  
of it. But that appears to be the replacement of the whole drive and without an expert's report 
saying that UKI should be responsible for more than the repairs it did accept liability for, 
I cant reasonably uphold this part of the complaint
.
Ms R says that UKIs  surveyor offered to pay £500 towards the cost of the damage it had 
caused which she never received. She doesnt recall being  asked to get an experts report 
but would  accept the £500 contribution.
In the adjudication of June 2016,  which Ms R accepted, we said that UKI accepted some 
damage was caused by their contractors and during a site meeting you agreed to some  
repairs being carried out  and these  were done.  So as UKI has already carried out the 
repairs it agreed were its responsibility  I cant reasonably  ask it to pay any more.  In the same 
adjudication we also said if you can provide  an expert  report  (which would need  to be at 
your expense) to demonstrate there is still damage  cause by the contractors then
[UKI would]  consider this further . So I do think Ms R was given the opportunity to provide an 
expert report on the damage  done to the drive.
Ref: DRN12562124threatening phone call
In my provisional decision I said:
Ms R says she received a call from the loss adjusters, after the planning  consent  came 
through telling  her that her complaint  wasnt accepted and that the claim would be referred  
back to UKI if she didnt agree a start date. She says she found this to be intimidating. I 
havent heard a recording of the call, so I cant adjudge whether it was inappropriate.  I 
accept however that it was insensitive at best to push Ms R for a start date, when she had 
clearly said she was considering her position.
Ms R wants  to be reassured that I didnt think she was lying. Im happy to give that 
reassurance. She was clearly upset  by the call at the time as she mentioned it to us when it 
happened. 
I made  the following further provisional  findings:
compensation
The issues  I have listed above  are the main  factors in the award of compensation proposed.  
UKI has made various  payments of compensation, all for delays of various kinds  as follows:
July 2014  - £100 because the repairs planned to begin in June were put off until 
September.
January 2015  - £100 because they had to order another garage door and this caused 
a further delay.
June 2015  - £300 because the flooring shouldve been laid in March. Ms Rs contents 
were due to be returned, but they werent  so the garage had been out of action for 
9 months.
January 2017  - £500 because of ongoing delays,
I accept that some of the delays were accounted for in those  payments.  For the other delays 
and the other issues I think  a further  £2,000 should  be paid. Although  it was repairs affecting 
a garage rather than a home, I think the knock on effect of Ms R having to use her home  for 
storage and the considerable  frustration of the continuing delays added  to the inconvenience 
and distress caused to Ms R. 
Ms R feels  she should be paid more compensation, in part to pay towards  the drive. The 
compensation awarded is for distress  and inconvenience, rather than any financial loss. And 
I havent upheld  the complaint concerning the drive.  Im not persuaded that the proposed 
award should be increased.
cash settlement
Ms R was offered a cash  settlement  by email of 22 February  2018.  UKIs loss adjusters sent 
her a copy of the schedule of works  with its costings.  Ms R advised  us of this and said she 
felt it was a good  offer.  The acceptance form required Ms R to have a witness  to her 
signature. I know there were issues about this, as UKI has said it didn't need to be 
witnessed, but that appears to be the loss adjusters standard form of settlement. Ms R was 
abroad at the time, but advised the loss adjusters by email of 21 March  that she would be 
accepting the offer. She duly did so and signed the acceptance form in full discharge of 
UKIs liability, and received the payment.
Ref: DRN12562125Ms R subsequently said that she didnt feel the settlement was enough, as her contractors 
would be charging  her about £3,000  more.  We established with UKI that the offer had been  
made on the basis of its contractors rates.  It emphasised that it had always been willing to 
carry out the repairs. Our investigator said UKI should increase its offer accordingly, but it 
wasnt willing to do that.
Ms R signed  the acceptance form in full discharge  and satisfaction  of the outstanding repair  
works as per the attached  schedule of works... Where there is a full and final settlement 
freely reached, we dont normally consider it to be fair to reopen the settlement, unless we 
are satisfied that the settlement was reached  unfairly eg the consumer was put under unfair 
pressure or wasnt given a chance to get advice.
I dont think that applies  in this case.  The offer of settlement did ask for a reply within  
21 days, but Ms R had been very proactively involved in her claim. She took about four 
weeks to return the form,  and she didnt ask UKI for extra time to seek quotes etc. I believe 
she had already had quotes  for the work. She has told us she has experience  of construction  
work which is why she felt able to query  matters with the builders during the course of the 
repairs. On balance I dont think she was unfairly  pressured or had no access  to advice.
UKI has pointed out that it was always prepared to do the repairs so in accordance  with its 
policy terms it said it could offer a settlement based on its contractors rates.  Whilst I 
understand that Ms R may have been fed up by this time with UKIs  contractors,  I dont think  
the offer itself was unfair. So I dont  think I can justify  reopening the settlement that was 
freely made between the two parties  and outside  of our involvement.
Ms R says that the settlement  was for the roof only and shes happy  to accept it. She says 
though that there are other repairs outstanding,  particularly that a special tar needs to be 
painted around  the bottom panels,  the floor needs  to be painted and a drain needs to have  a 
metal grid installed. She would like £500 towards  the cost of this.
So far as I can see, the settlement wasnt just for the roof, but for the whole garage. Thats 
certainly my understanding of it. So I cant reasonably ask UKI to pay anything  further.
guarantees
Finally I said in my provisional  decision:
Ms R seeks guarantees  for the underpinning, floor and walls. She accepts  the roof work will 
be dealt with by her contractors.
I think the problem  in this case is that the original  contractors  went into liquidation,  so any 
guarantee offered by them, unless it is insurance backed, wont  be worth  anything.  I dont 
think any such guarantee exists. But I understand that a certificate of structural adequacy 
was issued. And UKI has confirmed that it will continue to cover the property for subsidence. 
Its also confirmed that it will cover  any new purchaser, subject  to that person being eligible 
under its terms. If anything went wrong  with the repair  work  UKI had carried out it would still 
be liable  regardless of the provision or otherwise of any guarantees. I cant  see that there is 
any other action UKI could reasonably  be required to take.
Neither party has made any further  comments on this so they represent my final findings.
Ref: DRN12562126overall
I am satisfied that the findings in my provisional decision,  as Ive set out above  represent a 
fair and reasonable resolution  to this matter. And that a further payment of £2,000 should be 
made by UKI. But, beyond making that payment, I dont  think it should take any further  
action, or that I should make any further  award.  My provisional findings  are therefore final.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay to Ms R a further £2,000 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to her by the way it handled her 
claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1256212