K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of 
their car insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G have had their car insurance  with Admiral for a number of years. Their policy 
renews automatically every year.
On 24 January 2017, Admiral sent Mr and Mrs G their renewal package to Mr Gs email 
address in readiness of the policy renewal  on 19 February 2017. A document titled Motor 
Renewal Confirmation  was included.  That document detailed all the key information  about 
Mr and Mrs G, their car and the policy.  It asked them to check all the details and tell Admiral 
if anything was incorrect. 
One of the sections asked: Motoring  Offences: Have you or any driver been  involved in any 
motoring offences  in the last five years, including fixed penalties,  convictions, driver 
awareness course or have any pending  prosecution other than those listed? The answer  
beside Mrs Gs name  was none.
In November 2017, Mrs G was involved in an accident where  her car was a total loss, so she 
claimed on her policy. When Admiral did checks they discovered that in June 2016 Mrs G 
got three penalty  points for speeding,  which she hadnt told them about.
Admiral recalculated Mr and Mrs Gs premium with the information about the speeding points  
and said that had Admiral known  about  it at renewal, the policy  would have cost £102.39 
more. That amounted to 18.21%  of the correct premium Mr and Mrs G should  have  paid. Or, 
in other  words, they only paid 81.79% of the correct premium they should have paid. As a 
result, Admiral settled  their claim proportionately by only paying 81.79% of the claim. That 
meant that Mr and Mrs G didnt get just over £7,000 of the full settlement they were 
expecting. They thought  that was unfair so they complained.
Admiral said the law allowed them to settle  the claim the way they did, so they didnt uphold 
the complaint.  Mr and Mrs G didn't think that was fair so they brought their complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. She felt that Admiral  had dealt with 
Mr and Mrs G fairly. As Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs G, but Im not going  to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Gs points carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus  on 
what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if Admiral have dealt with Mr and 
Mrs G in a fair and reasonable way.
Admiral have said that Mr and Mrs G not disclosing Mrs Gs speeding points amounted  to, 
what is known in the insurance industry,  a careless  misrepresentation.  And theres specific 
legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  
Ref: DRN18362242that sets out what  insurers may do in such a situation. It says that where a claim has been 
made, if an insurer would have charged a higher premium  had they known about a fact that 
hadnt been disclosed, they may reduce  proportionately the amount to be paid on the claim. 
By that I mean they could  work out what percentage of the correct premium Mr and Mrs G 
had actually paid and limit their settlement  of any claim to that percentage.
Mrs G got the points during the 2016 policy year. Mr and Mrs Gs policy terms and conditions 
for that year said that they should  tell Admiral  at renewal if either of them got any motoring 
convictions or penalties during the policy year.  But when the policy  renewed  in February 
2017, Mr and Mrs G didnt  tell Admiral about  the points. 
Admiral also sent Mr and Mrs G a number of documents, including the Motor Renewal 
Confirmation. In that Admiral listed the information on which  theyd offered cover, which  
included Mrs G didnt have any points.  In that document Admiral asked Mr and Mrs G to 
correct anything that was inaccurate. Mr and Mrs G said that information was sent to Mr Gs 
email address during a time he was abroad and without access  to his emails.  But Mr G did 
return to the UK shortly  after the start of the policy so I think Mr and Mrs G had ample time to 
check the documents and notify  Admiral  of the points. Even  if they had corrected the 
inaccurate information a few months after the start of the policy, I think Admiral  would have 
amended the policy and allowed Mr and Mrs G to pay the shortfall  to ensure they had full 
cover. But that didnt  happen.
I have a lot of sympathy for Mr and Mrs Gs position and while I accept that it was a mistake 
and there  was no dishonest intention, it was nevertheless  a careless misrepresentation. And 
CIDRA sets out what insurers  like Admiral may do in those circumstances. Admiral have 
shown me information  that confirms they would have charged Mr and Mrs G 18.21%  more at 
renewal had they known about  the points on Mrs Gs licence. And CIDRA allows them  to 
reduce the settlement of a claim by that percentage. So I think  Admiral have acted 
reasonably in doing so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1836224