K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the end of term charges  made by Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS),  when  they returned a vehicle they had on finance with 
them.
background
Mr and Mrs B took receipt of a new car in January 2016. They  financed  the two year deal 
through a hire agreement with VWFS. The finance agreement included  a maintenance plan 
with a replacement  tyre package. The terms allowed them  to complete  10,000  miles per year 
and explained  that an excess mileage charge would be applied if this was exceeded. 
But when Mr and Mrs B returned the car at the end of the term they were disappointed to 
receive a bill for a replacement tyre and to note that VWFS had included the delivery 
mileage when calculating  excess  mileage.
They said theyd been advised by the dealership that the tyre didnt need to be replaced and, 
if it had, they questioned  why it couldnt  have been  changed when at the dealership under 
their replacement tyre cover. They thought that VWFS were  wrong  to consider the mileage 
covered when the dealership delivered  the vehicle.  They said theyd arranged  for the car to 
be delivered on a transporter  from the dealership but it had still arrived with 100 miles on the 
clock and these  clearly werent miles theyd covered themselves.
But VWFS didnt agree. They explained  that the end of term inspection  had identified the 
tyre had a gouge in the sidewall  and this wasnt covered by the replacement tyre policy;  was 
beyond normal wear  and tear, and was therefore chargeable. They said it was their policy to 
include delivery mileage  in the overall  mileage as it saved  time and inconvenience in 
customers collecting the vehicle themselves.
But Mr and Mrs B disagreed and they referred their complaint to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt think VWFS needed to take any further  action.  He thought  the mileage charges had 
been calculated  correctly and in line with the agreement and he noted that the damage  to 
the tyre was beyond  the normal wear and tear standards set by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA) and therefore the replacement tyre plan, Mr and Mrs B 
had taken out, did not cover the damage.
But Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said the independent inspection report  completed on the 
car had not been signed and was therefore invalid and they said it wasnt  fair to charge them 
for the delivery  miles.  So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN16427192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I think VWFS have applied  the charges  correctly. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the refurbishment charge
At the end of the term the finance agreement said that the car needed to be returned in 
good repair and condition except for fair wear and tear and if the car wasnt  returned in a 
good condition  then VWFS would be allowed to have such  work  carried out that is 
reasonably necessary to restore the vehicle  to a state of good repair.
VWFS used  a third party company to inspect the car at the end of the term and this company 
used the industry  guidelines, provided  by the BVRLA, to establish if anything was wrong  with 
the condition of the car, that could be considered beyond  fair wear and tear. They  decided  
that the gouge to the tyre sidewall was beyond normal wear and tear. Having considered  the 
picture in the report I agree, as the standard does not allow  any damage to the walls of the 
tyre.
Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs B should have been allowed to have the tyre 
replaced for free under their maintenance plan.  But that plan explained replacement  tyres 
would be provided  when needed  due to fair wear  and tear but you must pay for where 
damage is due to other causes. I think a gouge wouldnt normally be considered fair wear 
and tear so I dont  think Mr and Mrs Bs maintenance plan covered them in this instance and 
I therefore think VWFS have acted within their rights when applying  a charge.
I dont think the inspection needed  to be signed  to be a valid reflection of the condition  the 
vehicle was in on return.
the delivery mileage
I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs concern that they dont want  to pay for mileage theyve not 
completed and I have seen other mileage agreements where delivery  mileage is excluded.  
But here the agreement says you must  make  sure the vehicle does  not cover  more than 
the maximum annual  mileage in each succeeding period of 12 months starting  from the 
making of this agreement
And as the delivery mileage was incurred  after the date of agreement  the charges, in this 
instance, have  been fairly  made  and I dont think VWFS need  to take any further action.
Ref: DRN16427193my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1642719