K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited unfairly refused 
to pay his claim under his pet policy.
background
Mr T had insured his dog with Red Sands for some  years. In 2018, he changed his cover 
and effectively bought a new policy for his dog but also with Red Sands. In that application  
form, he said that his dog had no pre-existing condition, as he believed that was correct.
In August  2018,  his dog was diagnosed with a corneal ulcer  on his left eye, which  sadly 
resulted in Mr Ts dog losing his eye. Mr T made  two claims to Red Sands for the cost of the 
vet treatment for his dogs  treatment concerning this eye.
Red Sands  said that as Mr Ts dog has previously suffered an ulcer  on his right eye this was 
a pre-existing condition.  That meant his claim for the treatment costs  for his dogs right eye 
would not be covered.  
Mr T complained but Red Sands didnt change  its stance.  So Mr T brought his complaint to 
us. The investigator  didnt think Red Sands had done anything  wrong.  Mr T didnt agree so 
his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
In order for me to find that Red Sands did something wrong or had applied its policy terms 
unfairly to Mr Ts claim, I need to examine what Mr Ts policy says.
In section 1 of Mr Ts policy, it discusses Vet Fees  and specifically says the following:
1.2 Specific Conditions
1.2.3 Please note that where  a condition is affecting  one body part, of which your pet 
has two, one each  side of the body  (e.g. ears,  eyes, knees, cruciate ligaments)  this 
will be considered a bilateral condition and when applying a benefit limit or an 
exclusion bilateral conditions are considered  as one condition.
Earlier in the policy document, under the Definitions section, it says the following:
Condition means  any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or 
any manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting  
from the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents  or areas of 
your pets  body affected.
..
Pre-existing condition means:
Ref: DRN17060832Any condition symptom or sign of a condition  occurring or existing in any form 
and at any time prior to the commencement  date;
According to the vet history on Mr Ts dog, he suffered  from a corneal ulcer in his right eye in 
December 2017.  This healed  with relatively simple  treatment, the cost of which  was such  
that Mr T didnt need to make a claim under his policy  with Red Sands then. But under the 
definition of pre-existing  condition  as detailed above in Mr Ts present policy, that previous  
right eye ulcer was indeed a pre-existing condition. Mr T thought because it was cured  and 
his dogs right eye is now fine, its not a pre-existing condition. But thats what the definition  
of pre-existing says.  Any conditions suffered  before the policy  start date is a pre-existing 
condition whether its now better or still ongoing.  
Also under the schedule for Mr Ts policy it asked the following under the heading 
Declaration Questions
1. Have you ever taken [dogs name] to the vet for anything other than routine 
vaccinations? 
.
If the answer  to any of these questions is yes please  contact  us on [telephone 
number]. Animal Friends and Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
reserve the right not to accept cover. For specific exclusions and/or warranties 
relating to your policy contained within this schedule, please  refer to Your Complete  
Guide to your Policy attached.
So once Mr T had his schedule its clear Red Sands asked if Mr T had taken his dog to vet 
for anything  other than routine  vaccinations? Clearly here the answer was yes given the vet 
history and indeed  this right eye ulcer.  So effectively then Mr T should have contacted Red 
Sands to tell it. On the basis he didnt, Red Sands had the right to reserve cover, which  is 
what it did with Mr Ts claim for his dogs left eye. 
Further, given the definition of bilateral conditions  also detailed above, I dont consider Red 
Sands did anything wrong in relying on this term for the purposes of the exclusion it imposed 
on Mr Ts policy either. Mr Ts dog had suffered a pre-existing condition, which by the 
definition of bilateral  conditions would then also be deemed one condition. 
I also dont consider Red Sands policy provisions hid behind any jargon or that these terms 
werent clear  as its all detailed in section 1 of the policy with the definitions  section 
explaining the terms detailed before this.
Mr T said he phoned Red Sands in May 2018  to discuss  a reduction in his cover,  as his 
previous policy  was due for renewal. He said that prompted him to take out a new policy.  
However, the transcript of the call recording  doesnt  reflect this. Instead,  it details that Mr T 
said to Red Sands adviser that he didnt want his policy renewed. The adviser  asked him 
why and Mr T said the premium increased  again having increased the previous year and he 
said he had now switched  insurance  providers. When pressed for the identity of his new 
insurer, he replied that he didnt know the name but the policy cover was similar.
What Mr T did then was to go on line and obtain  a new policy  with Red Sands, which like 
almost all pet insurance policies had the usual pre-existing condition exclusion.  This meant 
Ref: DRN17060833there was a break in Mr Ts cover and theres no evidence of any discussion between Mr T 
and Red Sands about any reduction  in cover.
So whilst I do understand Mr T will be very disappointed with my decision, I cant see that 
Red Sands  did anything wrong here.  It applied the relevant conditions  correctly on the basis 
of the evidence contained in the vet history  for Mr Ts dog. That meant Mr Ts claim for costs  
of treating the ulcer in his dogs left eye ulcer was correctly excluded  on the basis Mr T took 
out a new policy instead of remaining on cover  with his previous  policy.
 
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1706083