K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Miss H have complained that Cumberland Building Society mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance policy.
background
Mr T and Miss H took out the PPI in October 2000 at the same time as arranging the 
mortgage during  a branch  meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T and Miss H disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr T and Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr T and Miss H say they werent aware  that they had the policy   meaning that it was 
added without their knowledge  or consent.
Ive seen the paperwork from the time. The mortgage application form has a separate 
section for PPI. The Yes  box in that section has been ticked to request  the policy.  Mr T and 
Miss H could have selected No if theyd wished to decline the policy.
There was also a separate PPI application  form. This details  the required benefit as being 
£440. It also shows that the benefit is being  set up as a 75/25%  split in favour of Mr T. This 
suggests that there was some discussion about  how the policy  would best meet the couples 
needs. The form asks the question: Have you received a copy of the Mortgage Payment 
Protection leaflet  and read and understood the exclusions outlined? The Yes box next to 
this question has been ticked.  Both Mr T and Miss H have signed and dated the form. A 
direct debit mandate has also been completed to pay for the policy. From the wording and 
layout of the forms, I consider that Mr T and Miss H would have known that they had a 
choice about buying the policy.
Mr T and Miss H say they missed some mortgage payments and would have made a claim 
on the PPI if theyd known they had it. We asked the couple for some more  information 
about this. Miss H says they missed some  payments  due to her not being at work on and 
off due to a recurring illness. However she says she can no longer remember the dates she 
was sick or the duration of any absences from work. The policy  had a 60 day waiting period, 
meaning that it did not pay out for the first 60 days of absence from work due to sickness.  
Therefore the policy wouldnt  pay out for shorter occasional periods off work. This might be 
the reason that no claims were made on the policy.
Ive no doubt that Mr T and Miss H have provided their honest  recollection of events. But the 
sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memory has faded. 
Overall, looking at the available evidence, I consider that there would have been some 
discussion about the PPI and that it was presented as optional.  It seems to me that the 
Ref: DRN12945852couple probably decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer 
remember doing so.
Cumberland BS advised Mr T and Miss H to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the 
policy to them, it needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of the 
couples circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr T was by far the main wage earner,  so it makes sense that the policy was set up to cover  
him for 75% of the benefit and Miss H for 25%. Information provided by their employers at 
the time shows that Mr T would have received sick pay of 75% of his normal pay for 
18 weeks and Miss H would have received about three months  full pay, followed by three 
months half pay. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer  than they would  have received full pay for. And the couple had no other 
means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think they had a need  for the policy  and could 
have benefitted  from it at what would have been  a difficult  time.
Cumberland BS also needed to provide Mr T and Miss H with sufficient information for them 
to make an informed choice about  whether  or not the PPI was right for them.
I think that Mr T and Miss H would have  understood something about  the PPI  that it 
covered their mortgage repayments if they were unable to work due to illness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have  decided to buy it without knowing 
anything at all about it.
Its possible that Cumberland BS didnt provide as much information  about the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mr T and Miss H werent 
affected by any of those  things. As I consider they had an interest  in the policy and decided 
to buy it, I dont think that more information  would have caused  them  to change their minds.  
So they are no worse off as a result of anything Cumberland BS may have done wrong,  so 
theres nothing that Cumberland  BS needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr T and Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1294585