K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Widows Limited incorrectly calculated  the benefits  he was due 
from his pension plan.  In particular he complains that the value of his annuity  was reduced 
after he accepted  a retirement quotation,  he says that Scottish Widows failed to allow him to 
make best use of the option to take tax free cash,  and that the compensation he was offered 
in no way makes up for the losses he has incurred.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
February 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Mr C and 
Scottish Widows  have  provided me with further  information. Although  I am only summarising 
their responses below, I have carefully read their entire responses before writing this 
decision.
Mr C has acknowledged that he was informed of the withdrawal of the GAR from new 
contributions in 1999. But he says that letter failed to make  it clear that he would be required 
to take an annuity from Scottish Widows for the non-GAR  benefits in order to receive the 
GAR benefits. He says that had that been made clear he wouldnt have made any increased  
contributions to the Scottish Widows pension and instead directed those pension savings to 
another policy that he held with an alternative provider.
Scottish Widows  asked  me to note that it had partially  upheld  Mr Cs original  complaint and 
offered to pay him some compensation for the trouble  and upset hed been caused.  It says 
that it made  Mr Cs IFA aware that the optional final payment needed to be made in order for 
Mr C to receive the full amount of the benefits hed been quoted. It thinks  it was clear that 
this payment needed to be made  by cheque.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not minded to diverge 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. But I would like to comment  
further on the matters  both parties have raised  in response to that decision.
When Mr C first complained to this Service he said that he believed  his whole pension fund 
should attract the GAR. He said that he was unaware that his pension fund had actually  
been split into two separate lots. However more  recently he has acknowledged receipt of 
the letter that Scottish Widows sent him in 1999  explaining that any increased  contributions  
wouldnt attract the GAR that was available on his previous contributions.
It is understandable  that Mr C might,  some  20 years later,  have forgotten  the details  of a 
letter hed been sent. But that would also lead me to question whether it is reasonable to 
conclude that he might have acted differently if the contents of that letter  had been  different. 
I cannot, with any degree of confidence,  conclude that in 1999 Mr C might have decided  to 
not increase his contributions to his Scottish Widows  pension  if the letter  had specifically 
explained how the future pension benefits  would be calculated.
Ref: DRN10998142Mr C has said that he has lost out because he has been unable  to take advantage of the 
options provided by the recent  changes  to pensions since he is required to use the whole of 
his pension to purchase an annuity in order to benefit from the GAR.  But those changes 
were only introduced in 2015. So in 1999  when  Scottish Widows told Mr C about the 
changes his only option would have been  to use his pension benefits  to purchase an 
annuity. So I dont  think the recent changes would have affected his decision making at that 
time.
I have noted that shortly  after Scottish  Widows wrote to Mr C about the changes to the GAR  
he did increase  his pension contributions. I can see that he made  a lump sum addition  in 
October 2000 and he increased his regular contributions  in March 2000 and April 2002. It 
seems that Mr C was receiving advice, or at the very least administrative support, from a 
financial advisor at that time. I think it might have  been reasonable, if Mr C had any concerns 
about the withdrawal  of the GAR from new contributions, that he might  have sought advice 
from that advisor about whether to make those new contributions  to the pension he held with 
Scottish Widows, or to the pension he held with the other provider. I dont think  it was the 
responsibility of Scottish Widows to provide that advice  to him.
So I dont  think it is reasonable to conclude  that the information Scottish Widows gave to 
Mr C in 1999 needed to provide him with more detailed information about how his benefits  at 
retirement would  need  to be taken. And I dont  think, even if more detailed  information had 
been provided, I can reasonably conclude that Mr C would have acted differently as a result.
Ive looked at the information Scottish  Widows  has sent us about  the optional  final payment 
that Mr C was required to make.  As I said in my provisional decision Scottish Widows had 
collected Mr Cs regular  contributions by direct  debit for a number  of years.  And it had 
previously written to him to explain that whilst it was collecting  direct  debits he shouldnt  
make payments by cheque as they might  be duplicated. So I still think it was entirely 
reasonable of Mr C to think that his optional final payment would also be collected by direct 
debit. I think if Scottish Widows required  him to make the payment manually it should have 
clearly explained  that it wouldnt be using the direct debit authority it held to collect  the 
payment.
So I remain  of the opinion that Scottish Widows should provide  Mr C with the opportunity to 
make the optional final payment and receive  the additional pension  benefits that would 
provide.
putting things right
It isnt clear to me whether Scottish Widows has already paid the £400  it offered to Mr C for 
the trouble and upset he has been caused. I think the amount Scottish Widows has offered 
is fair, and so if it hasnt  already paid this to Mr C, it should do so if he accepts this final 
decision.
I direct  Scottish Widows  to provide Mr C with the opportunity to make  the final optional 
contribution to his pension.  Should Mr C choose to do so, Scottish Widows should increase 
Mr Cs annuity accordingly and provide him with payments of the additional pension amount 
backdated to when his annuity  commenced. I am not going to require Scottish Widows to 
add any interest to these  backdated payments  I think that interest  is fairly  offset  by the 
delay in Mr C paying the optional premium  to Scottish Widows.
Ref: DRN10998143my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that 
I uphold part of Mr Cs complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to put things right as 
detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10998144EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Widows Limited  incorrectly calculated the benefits he was due from his 
pension plan.  In particular he complains  that the value  of his annuity was reduced after he accepted a 
retirement quotation,  he says that Scottish Widows failed  to allow him to make best use of the option 
to take tax free cash,  and that the compensation he was offered in no way makes up for the losses he 
has incurred.
background
Mr C has held pension benefits with Scottish  Widows  since  1992. When he originally took his pension  
plan it included the benefit of a guaranteed  annuity  rate. That rate is far higher than the annuity rates  
currently available in the market. Mr C has saved regularly into his pension  until his agreed retirement  
date in 2017.
In July 1999  Scottish Widows discontinued the guaranteed annuity in respect of any new increased 
contributions. But those  contributions  that had been agreed before that date continued to attract the 
guaranteed annuity benefit. Scottish Widows says that it wrote at the time to all its affected 
policyholders, including Mr C, to advise them of the change.
As Mr C approached retirement he was sent a letter by Scottish Widows explaining the options that 
were open  to him in respect of his pension  benefits.  The letter noted that at that time his pension  fund 
was valued at just over £140,000. The letter said that Mr C was able to exercise an Open Market 
Option and transfer  his benefits to another provider.  It told Mr C that he could take up to 25% of his 
pension benefits  as a tax free lump sum. And it gave Mr C details of the annuity that he could be paid 
either monthly or annually.
But the information that Scottish Widows  provided  to Mr C was incorrect. It had miscalculated the 
value of his investments  that attracted the guaranteed annuity  rate. And it had used an incorrect 
annuity rate for the remaining funds. So as a result  it provided Mr C with a new quotation, reducing 
the annuity he would  be paid.  And that annuity was reduced still further as Scottish  Widows  noted that 
Mr C had failed to pay an optional final premium. So all in all, Mr Cs pension was almost £1,000 per 
annum lower than the original quotation.
Scottish Widows  notes  say that Mr C, via his financial advisor, reluctantly accepted the revised 
pension benefits. But they go on to say that Mr C would be raising a complaint  about what had 
happened. When he did so, Scottish Widows didnt uphold that complaint but offered Mr C £400 for 
the trouble and upset hed been  caused.  Mr C didnt accept that offer so he brought the matter to this 
Service.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt  think that 
Scottish Widows  had treated Mr C unfairly in the calculation of his pension benefits.  And she thought 
that the offer Scottish Widows had made for Mr Cs trouble and upset was fair. So she didnt think  the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Ref: DRN10998145Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
First I think  it would be useful  to explain my understanding of the pension  benefits  that Mr C had 
accrued over the years. At the date it was agreed he would take his pension benefits,  he held a fund 
valued at just over £140,000. That was the value of his fund that he could  have chosen to take to 
another provider. Or it was the value of the fund that he could use to take benefits  from 
Scottish Widows.
The benefits  he was entitled to take from Scottish Widows  included the option to take a tax free lump 
sum equal to 25% of that fund. But it appears from the paperwork he completed that Mr C chose  not 
to take a lump sum as part of his benefits. And then Mr C was able to purchase an annuity from 
Scottish Widows  to provide  him with an annual  or monthly income for the remainder of his life.
When he first took his pension plan, Scottish Widows provided Mr C with what is now a very valuable 
benefit. It gave him a guaranteed annuity rate, allowing  him to purchase £1 of pension benefits for 
approximately £9 of pension  fund.  That is a significantly better  annuity rate than can be found in the 
market today. The equivalent rate for the non-guaranteed annuity that applied to Mr Cs pension  was 
£1 of benefits for approximately  £21 of pension.
But in 1999 Scottish Widows  says that it wrote to its policy holders to inform them that any new 
contributions, in excess of those previously agreed, wouldnt attract the guaranteed  annuity rate. So at 
retirement, approximately £39,000 of Mr C fund value  was affected  by this change. Scottish  Widows 
hasnt retained copies  of each of the letters it sent advising policy holders of this change. But it has 
provided me with a sample of the letter it says was sent, and confirmation  that the address  it has held 
for Mr C over the entire time he has held this pension  plan has been unchanged. So on balance  
I think  it most likely  that this letter was sent to Mr Cs correct address  by Scottish Widows.
So if Mr C chose  to take his benefits  with Scottish Widows, part of his pension  fund could be used to 
buy an annuity at the guaranteed rate, with the remainder at the current market rate. But I dont  think  
it is reasonable  to see the division of his funds as being anything  other than an artificial administrative  
split. So I dont think it is reasonable  for Mr C to expect Scottish Widows to allow him to use a lump 
sum withdrawal to reduce  the sum available to buy an annuity at the market  rate, leaving the amount 
able to utilise  the guaranteed rate untouched. Instead I think it is reasonable, as Scottish  Widows has 
done, to apply  any lump  sum proportionately across the two parts.
I have looked carefully at how Scottish Widows  has calculated the benefits due to Mr C. It is clear  that 
Scottish Widows  made an error when it first gave Mr C a quotation for his pension  benefits. It both 
overestimated the benefits that could be used for the guaranteed annuity rate, and it used a current  
annuity rate that was too high. 
But I think what is important  here is that the original quotation described benefits  that were not due to 
Mr C. So considering what  I said earlier  about  correcting mistakes by placing a consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position  they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred  I think it is reasonable  
for Scottish  Widows to change its quotation.  I havent  seen anything that would make me think Mr C 
had made  irrevocable spending plans based on him receiving  the higher,  incorrect, annuity amount.
I have also considered what  Mr C says about him expecting the whole of his pension  benefits  to 
attract the guaranteed annuity rate. That was certainly the case  when he originally took the plan in 
1992. But the terms and conditions at the time did provide the ability for Scottish  Widows to vary 
these terms  in respect of future contributions. And since  I think  it most  likely that Scottish  Widows told 
Mr C about  the change, I think  it was reasonable  for it to apply the removal of the guaranteed  annuity 
rate to his policy.
Ref: DRN10998146The error in the calculation of the annuity rates  reduced Mr Cs annuity by £897.24.  But Mr Cs 
annuity was reduced still further,  by an additional £67.20 per annum, due to him not paying a final 
optional contribution of £668.40.
I can see that throughout the time Mr C was contributing  to his pension,  his monthly  payments were 
collected by Scottish Widows by direct debit. And Mr C has provided us with a copy  of a letter he was 
sent in September  2016 confirming that a revised  premium would be automatically  collected and 
warning that paying the contribution by cheque might result in bank charges if it is too late to stop the 
direct debit collection  request.
I accept that the final contribution was optional. But I havent seen anything that Scottish Widows sent 
to Mr C that would make him aware  that he needed to ensure  that payment was made, and that it 
wouldnt be collected by direct debit as his contributions had been  for many years before. So I think  
that Mr C had a reasonable expectation that Scottish Widows  would be responsible for collecting this 
payment.
I dont think Scottish Widows has acted fairly in this regard. It seems to me that it is likely that Mr C 
wanted to make that final payment. After all he would  only need to expect to live for around 10 years 
to make the additional annuity worth the cost of the final contribution. I think if Scottish  Widows had 
made it clear to Mr C that he would need to make the payment, or that the payment had been missed, 
he would have taken  steps to ensure the funds were sent. So I intend  to uphold this part of Mr Cs 
complaint.
In summary, I dont think Scottish  Widows  has treated Mr C unfairly in the way that it has calculated  
his pension benefits,  either in terms of the annuity  or cash lump  sum that was available  to him. And 
I dont think that Mr C has lost out as a result of the mistake Scottish  Widows made  when it first gave 
him a quotation of his benefits. What he is now receiving is what  he was originally entitled to receive. 
But I do accept that this mistake shouldnt have happened and is likely to have caused Mr C an 
amount of trouble  and upset. And I think Scottish Widows has treated Mr C unfairly in respect of the 
final optional contribution that failed  to be added  to his pension.
Ref: DRN1099814