K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly continued his pet policy after 
he told it to cancel it.
background
Mr T said he bought this policy in 2008  on behalf  of his grandmother who had taken in his 
mothers dog after his mother died.  He paid the premium for this policy  as he felt it was his 
responsibility to do so in these  circumstances.
His grandmother died in September 2012  and in the following months,  he sorted out her 
affairs. He said he called  UKI to cancel his policy and thought nothing more about  it.
On 7 September 2018, he received an email from UKI asking him to do a survey  after 
renewing a pet policy. This confused him as his present policy  was with another  provider. He 
then checked  an old savings account  and saw UKI had been taking premiums from this 
account since 2010. He got a new password for his initial UKI account  and couldnt find 
anything. He went online and availed of webchat with an UKI advisor who told him there 
was no record of his phone call.
It also seemed that any post UKI had sent to Mr Ts grandmother got returned,  obviously, 
after she died. So it said it put a block on sending out any more correspondence but 
continued to renew  the policy and take the premiums without making  any contact with either 
Mr T and obviously his grandmother.  It also said it only posted out such documents  rather  
than email them.
So Mr T complained but UKI didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr T then brought  his 
complaint to us. The investigator thought UKI should  have discontinued the policy once its 
letters had been returned. He thought UKI should  also refund Mr T with all premium 
payments it had taken  from 2013 to date with interest. Whilst Mr T agreed, UKI didnt, so Mr 
Ts complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
UKI said it has no record of Mr Ts phone call he made in the weeks  or even months  after his 
grandmother died in September  2012.  It also says it had no interaction with Mr T in the time 
since. In fact, it said it had no contact at all with Mr T since  2010, yet in correspondence with 
this service, UKI this policy had been set up in August 2011, which is clearly wrong given it 
was already able to see it hadnt any contact with Mr T since  2010. Mr T thinks  it was set up 
in 2008.
The business support team in UKI (which UKI said doesnt deal directly  with consumers) did 
note on this policy file that correspondence  was being returned  in 2013. It said it had no 
contact from Mr T about any change of address so couldnt do anything about  that. But it 
obviously did have his email address,  since  it was through  UKI wanting him to complete a 
survey about his renewal  experience which it sent to Mr T via email, that Mr T discovered  
he was still paying  premiums for a policy that was no longer required.  So I consider UKI did 
Ref: DRN18540562have a means of contacting Mr T when it noted  its correspondence was being returned.  It 
just decided to not avail of this at this time.
In the record of the webchat Mr T had with UKI on 19 September 2018,  UKI told him it had 
put a block on the mails going out again. So UKI obviously then decided to actively not post 
any correspondence to Mr T or his grandmother.  Yet with its correspondence with us, UKI 
said there was no reason  for it to think he wasnt  getting renewal  invitations,  which  was also 
clearly wrong given what its advisor said in the webchat directly to Mr T. The webchat also 
confirmed UKI only uses the post for such communications and does  not send out policy  
documents by any other means.  So UKI knew perfectly well Mr T wasnt getting any renewal  
correspondence since 2013. 
So I dont  consider it either fair or reasonable for UKI to know  it wasnt  sending  out renewal 
invitations to its policyholder  but nevertheless continued to take premiums,  knowing its 
policyholder had no idea of what was in the renewal  invitations to include any changes  in the 
premium amount. 
I consider its only right that if correspondence, in the fashion it was here,  is being  returned, 
a diligent search  of any other means  of making  contact with the policyholder should have 
then been made. And here it wasnt,  notwithstanding that it had Mr Ts email address  in any 
event.
Obviously, Mr T should have noticed  his saving account was depleting  each month with the 
premium being taken from it UKI. But I dont think that negates UKIs actions in taking a 
premium for a policy, which it knew Mr T didnt know anything  about since it, itself,  had put a 
block on sending out any renewal invitations to him. And thats despite the fact it was able to 
communicate with him to complete a survey about his renewal  experience. 
There was obviously no risk to UKI that any claim would be made, since Mr T was 
completely unaware  this policy  remained  in existence after his grandmother  died until UKI 
emailed him to do this survey.
Therefore I think UKI should refund all premiums it took from Mr Ts back account  the date in 
2013 when it first received the returned correspondence to date. Interest of 8% simple  per 
year should  be added from the date each premium amount  was taken on that monthly basis 
to the date it refunds Mr T.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Refund all premiums  taken from Mr Ts bank account from the date in 2013 it 
received the returned  correspondence.
Interest of 8% simple per year should be added to each premium amount taken from 
the date it was taken  to the date of its refund  to Mr T.*
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN18540563Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854056