K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains that Cash  On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Miss F was given three  loans by Peachy between July 2015 and May 2016. The loans were 
repayable in instalments of between 3 and 12 months. Miss F has repaid  all of the loans. A 
summary of Miss Fs loans from Peachy is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 31/07/2015 30/09/2015 £ 200
2 01/10/2015 06/03/2016 £ 500
3 28/05/2016 14/03/2017 £ 700
Miss Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  that the 
last loan should have been  given to Miss F. So she asked  Peachy to pay Miss F some 
compensation. Peachy didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Miss F accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss F could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN16594772refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint.
The three instalments  on Miss Fs first loan was relatively modest compared to the income 
that she declared to Peachy. And although  the amount she borrowed on the second loan 
had increased, it was still likely to have seemed affordable to Peachy given that it was 
repayable over 7 months and the first loan had been  repaid  early. So given Miss Fs 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about her circumstances  at the time,  and her 
history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Peachy to ask her for 
the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss F provided or the information  Peachy 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
she was saying. So I dont  think Peachy  was wrong to give these two loans to Miss F.
But Miss F asked to take her third loan a short time after repaying  loan 2. I have considered  
that it was over 2 months later. But the amount Miss F had asked to borrow had increased 
significantly and she had asked to spread this over 12 instalments. Given that Miss F had 
been borrowing  and repaying her debt since July 2015 I dont think  that it was reasonable for 
Peachy to conclude that she was in a position  to sustainably repay her borrowing without 
additional checking.
I dont think it was safe to rely on what Miss F was saying about her finances as her 
borrowing pattern  suggested difficulty and that she may be reliant on short term credit. The 
fact that Miss F repaid  her loans early does  not give the complete picture and further checks  
would have revealed that Miss F was borrowing  to repay credit.  Miss Fs declared 
disposable income was at odds with her borrowing pattern. I think  Peachy  should have done 
more checks before giving Miss F this loan.  I have reviewed the checks carried out by 
Peachy but I still dont  think it was enough  to rely on that information in view of Miss Fs 
borrowing pattern.
Ref: DRN16594773I think by the point of this loan, proportionate  checks would most likely have shown that Miss 
F was having problems  managing her money. I think if the business had asked for bank 
statements or other confirmation of income  and outgoings, it would have become aware that 
Miss F was in considerable  difficulty managing her credit and had outstanding short term 
loans and other credit commitments.  So I dont think she should have been given loan 3 as 
she was not able to sustainably repay it over the 12 months without borrowing further. 
putting things right
I dont think Peachy should  have agreed to lend to Miss F the third loan that she took on 28 
May 2016. So for this loan Peachy should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss F on the loan.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Fs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Miss F a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Fs complaint and direct Cash On Go Limited  to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1659477