K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy about the level of compensation hes been offered after the Society of 
Lloyds (Lloyds) provided poor service  when he made a claim under his home  emergency  
policy.
 
background 
Mr H has home emergency cover. Lloyds has taken responsibility for this complaint, as Mr H 
hasnt been able to resolve his initial complaint with the company (which  Ill call C) he dealt 
with at the time.
Mr Hs boiler stopped working  and he tried to contact C about this. He got no response,  and 
says he spent the next couple of days continually calling C, but the phone  wasnt answered. 
Eventually he asked  a friend for advice. He found  the problem was that the condensate pipe 
on his boiler was frozen. He tried pouring  boiling water on the pipe but that didnt help. Then, 
on his friends advice he cut the pipe  and got his boiler working.
C has Mr Hs first call recorded  4 days  after Mr H started calling. 
When Mr H eventually got through  to C, he was told an engineer would attend. He followed 
this up the next day and told C that the pipe had been cut. C says it told Mr H no engineer 
would attend because of this. 
Mr H contacted C again a few days later and said the pressure in his boiler was fluctuating  
so C agreed to send  an engineer to look at it. The engineer attended about three days after 
this.
The engineer couldnt find anything wrong with the boiler, but he did advise Mr H to replace 
the old condensate pipe with a larger one, as that would likely  prevent the freezing  issue 
from re-occurring.
Mr H complained to C about the delay and upset this had caused him and his wife, both of 
whom suffer  from ill health. C didnt uphold his complaint, but said Lloyds would look at it if 
Mr H so wished. Mr H asked that this be done   but Lloyds didnt answer his complaint, 
although it said it was working on it. Mr H came to us.
Our investigator thought Mr Hs complaint  should be upheld. She thought  more  should have 
been done when the policy  was sold to let Mr H know that frozen pipes werent  covered.  And 
she didnt think C or Lloyds could rely on an exclusion in the policy that said it wouldnt 
cover issues  where a third party had intervened  before  the contractor attended. She thought  
Lloyds should  pay for the repair to the pipe. She also thought Lloyds hadnt provided good  
service and should pay £150  compensation.
Lloyds accepted that it and C hadnt  provided  a good service  so would pay the 
compensation. But it said it thought the terms and conditions were clear about  what  was or 
wasnt covered  so it didnt want to pay for the repair.
Mr H says hes accepted  that, under his policy, frozen pipes  arent covered. But he remains  
unhappy about the service and thinks Lloyds should  have done more than it did. And he 
says it wasnt a third  party intervention, as he cut the pipework  himself.
Ref: DRN16443802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says hes accepted  that the original problem with his boiler  the frozen pipe  wasnt 
covered by his insurance. So Im not going  to look at that any further. Hes less happy about  
the comments that a third  party cut the pipe as he say he did that himself, albeit following 
advice from a friend. I accept what he says  but having read the part of the policy  that refers 
to this I think its clear that third  party is anybody who isnt one of Cs registered engineers.  
I think that includes Mr H.
Lloyds has accepted that Mr H didnt get a good  service when he reported  the fault. So Im 
going to concentrate on whether Lloyds  agreement to pay £150 compensation is fair, given 
the circumstances.
The way I do that is to look at what would have  happened if the mistake(s) hadnt happened.   
If Mr H had got through to the contractor  when he first tried,  I think  hed have been told his 
insurance didnt  cover frozen pipes. Thats what happened when he did speak to the 
contractor, and I cant see any reason why hed have  been told anything  else a few days 
earlier.
So Mr H would have had to try to find an independent engineer to sort out the problem. 
Thats what  eventually happened, and Mr H has had the pipe repaired. But he did 
experience a delay.
Mr H raised a second issue  which was that the pressure in his boiler was going up and 
down and he didnt  know why  a few days later.  Ive listened to the calls about this, and I 
can hear Mrs H explain  this to Lloyds on March 6. Mr H also raises this point in his 
subsequent calls. Its clear that theres  some  confusion about whether this is a new issue   
or a continuation of the original frozen  pipe problem.  I can understand why this happened,  as 
both Mr and Mrs H did also refer to the original problem. But I do think  Lloyds could have 
clarified this earlier than it did, instead  of assuming the only problem was the frozen pipe.
I think that delayed  sending an engineer out and caused some inconvenience  and worry for 
Mr H.
Overall I dont think Lloyds provided the service Mr H should get. But taking everything into 
account I think the £150 recommended  by our investigator is fair. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order the Society  of Lloyds to pay Mr H 
£150 compensation for the poor service  provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1644380