K821x#15complaint
Mr M, represented by Ms C, complains  that the car he acquired  through  a hire purchase 
agreement (HPA) with Blue Motor Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. It suffered 
engine failure  within six months of acquisition.
background
Mr M entered into a HPA with Blue Motor Finance in May 2017. In October 2017, he says a 
warning light came on saying 'please check oil level' and 'oil change  due in 200 miles/126 
days'. Mr M took the car to a local dealer and says he was advised to top-up the oil and book 
the car in for a service,  which  he did. But before the service took place the car broke down. 
Mr M says no warning  lights  came on before this happened.
The car was recovered and it was found it needed  a new engine and turbo charger.  Mr M 
says that this shouldn't have happened  within six months  of acquisition. He had an 
independent inspection carried out which he says confirms the problems with the car were 
not due to driver neglect.
Blue Motor  Finance says that the car was acquired with a full service history  and had been  
driven round 70,500 miles. It says the next service was due at 76,600 miles or 8 August 
2018 whichever  came sooner. But when the car was recovered  in November 2017, the 
mileage was 79,845,  and the service was overdue  by over 3,000 miles.  It also says that two 
tyres were replaced before Mr M took delivery  of the car, and that tyres that were  newly  new 
at acquisition were  worn to the legal limit by the time the car broke down. It says the issues  
were caused  by driver error  or neglect.
Blue Motor  Finance says that the inspection report noted the oil light illuminated on 25 
October 2017 but that the car was not booked for a service until 28 October. It says the 
report notes there was contamination on the underside of the vehicle consistent  with a high 
level leakage, but then went on to say the vehicle had not been subject to an external oil 
leak prior to breaking down. It says this is inconsistent. It further says that a fault code 
relating to the oil was recorded.
Blue Motor  Finance says that checks  were  carried out before the car was provided and the 
MOT history only showed one advisory  relating to the tyres, hence their replacement.  It 
believes the car was subject to driver  error  or neglect and so did not uphold this complaint.
Our investigator said that she did not think that Mr M had taken proper care of the car. 
However, she also noted the comments  in the inspection report  which said the damage was 
not due to driver neglect and that other factors  could  have contributed to the engine's  failure. 
Because of this she recommended  that Blue Motor Finance cover  the cost of the repair  and 
refund Mr M interest and instalments paid from the date the car broke  down.
Blue Motor  Finance did not accept our investigator's  view. It said that there was no oil 
contamination noted in the pre-delivery  checks, and so no oil leak was present at that time. It 
reiterated that Mr M had driven 9,000  miles in six months and had admitted that he hadn't  
checked the oil levels. It believed the engine  failure was due to lack of proper maintenance 
and Mr M failing to stop using the car when the fault was indicated in October.
Mr M accepted our investigator's view and Ms C added that he had been  checking the oil 
levels and had filled up the oil a few days before the car broke down. She also said that 
Ref: DRN12237722when Mr M took the car to the local dealer he specifically asked if it could be driven on a 
long journey and he was told it was alright  to do this.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the car had faults present and was not able to be driven;
the MOT results from February 2017,  three  months before the car was acquired,  only 
had the front tyres  noted in the advisory  section suggesting that an oil leak wasnt 
present at that time;
checks carried out at end March 2017,  did not raise any concerns;  
had a leak been present before Mr M says  a warning light came on in October 2017, 
I would  have expected this to have been  noticed;
the inspection  report said that the exact  cause of the engine  failure was not known 
and that stripping the engine down would  still not assist  in this. It recorded  evidence 
of heavy oil particulate contamination on the underside  of the car consistent with a 
high level leakage  and that no oil was in the engine. It then said there was internal  
impact fracturing to the rear engine block and substantial oil depletion apparent  to the 
surrounding components. The report then concluded that the engine sustained 
internal damage  and that an external leak was not present before this. The report 
also said that the issue was not due to driver neglect;
I accepted the comment regarding driver neglect  and that it was more likely than not 
that Mr M would not have  been aware  of any oil leak before the issues  with his car 
occurred. However  given the checks  carried out before the car was supplied  and the 
mileage Mr M was able to cover before the issue arose,  I didnt find I could safely  
conclude that there  was a fault that was present at the point  of supply. Because  of 
this I didnt find I could  uphold  this complaint.
No further information was provided in response  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr M acquired a used car through a HPA with Blue Motor Finance. Under the regulations, 
Blue Motor  Finance can be liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account the age and mileage of the car. At acquisition 
the car was over three years old and had been driven over 70,000 miles. Mr Ms car broke  
down in November  2017, just within six months of acquisition. The car is said to need  a new 
engine and turbo charger. 
Ref: DRN12237723My role is to decide whether or not I think the issues that caused  the engine  and turbo  
charger to fail were present or developing at the point of supply.  While  I note comments in 
the inspection  report, based on the other evidence provided, I do not find that I can safely 
conclude that there  was a fault present at the point of supply. I say this because  there  were  
no issues raised at the MOT or in the checks  carried out in March 2017.  Mr M was then able 
to drive 9,000 miles before any issues arose and there was no suggestion of oil leaks  before 
this time. Had the issue with the engine been present at the point of supply  I would have 
expected problems to have arisen  sooner. 
As no further  information was provided  in response to my provisional decision,  my decision 
has not changed
While I know this will be disappointing to Mr M, on balance, I do not find that I can safely 
conclude the issues with his car were due to fault present at the point of supply and 
therefore I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
 
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1223772