K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that his Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) was mis-sold to him 
by Easy  Financial Planning (Easy) on the grounds of suitability and due diligence.  Easy  was 
an appointed representative of WSW Financial Services Ltd (WSW). The SIPP was set up 
so Mr P could invest in an unregulated overseas property  investment. Mr P complains 
WSWs actions have  led to substantial losses.
background
The complaint has been investigated by one of our adjudicators. He set out the background 
to the complaint which I have summarised  here.
Mr P says he was first approached about moving his pensions  in 2009, whilst  he was 
abroad. He believes it was the same company that approached him again  in 2012.
Initially, the agent told him he should invest in what he thought were bio-fuels but later 
changed this, saying the intended SIPP provider wouldnt allow this. The agent  then 
suggested he invest in White Sands. Mr P believed this was a development near a PGA golf 
course. He was sent a link to a film about  the development and it all looked  good.
As part of the transaction, Mr P told our adjudicator that he received a tax-free lump sum of 
£17,970.00. He also believed the investment would make money each  year.
Mr P was referred to Smith Osborne Associates  by an unregulated business. Smith Osborne 
in turn referred  him to Easy.  It said the referral was made to Easy  as it was unable to 
arrange the SIPP he needed.
In a report dated 27 September 2012,  Easy  said Mr P shouldnt transfer benefits from a 
money purchase occupational pension, or his benefits in a personal pension  with Phoenix 
Life. Its recommendation was:
Remain in your existing  plan(s)  and do not transfer.
Investing in unregulated propositions such as carbon credits  is a very risky strategy 
and you could stand  to lose a large proportion (or all) of your retirement fund with no 
recourse. Private Carbon Credit investment is in its infancy and future long-term  
marketability has not yet been proven.
My advice, therefore, is not to invest in unregulated Carbon Credits within a SIPP.
Under the headings Objectives and Aims  and Attitude to risk the report  said:
You are considering a transfer of your pension(s)  to enable investment in Carbon 
Credits via a Self Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) in order to invest in the 
potentially lucrative  but extremely  high risk carbon sector.
 and
As part of the fact finding process your attitude  to risk was determined  using  an 
asset allocation  tool. This determined that your attitude to risk is 3 out of 10 or 
cautious and you have  agreed that this description is accurate. This means that you 
prefer to take minimal  risk with your money rather than potentially  higher volatility and 
higher returns.
Ref: DRN11765852The report  concluded  that investment in the carbon credit market  was very specialised  and 
suitable only for very experienced, sophisticated investors.
It also said:
Should you decide, having  read and considered this report, to go ahead  with the 
proposed course  of action against my advice, we will further  consider  your 
circumstances before deciding whether to facilitate  your request. With this report  we 
are sending you a form on which to notify us of your total assets.  In order to ensure 
that a client does not place what we consider to be an irresponsible  proportion of 
their assets  at very high risk within an unregulated investment, we use the details of 
all of their assets (combined with other factors) to determine how much  we consider 
would be appropriate  for an unregulated investment This determination is at our 
discretion and any decision not to facilitate a transfer despite the clients wishes  will 
be deemed in the clients  best financial interests and final.
A further  identical report was dated 2 October 2012.  A cover letter  of the same date said 
Easy usually placed clients  who were  suitable  for Carbon Credit investments in a Carey 
Pension Group SIPP. However, Carey wouldnt allow the carbon credit investment Mr P was 
contemplating. So he could either abandon  his plans, or invest a maximum of 50% of his 
fund in a Carey approved carbon credit investment.
The letter also said:
Once you have considered all the factors I have highlighted, if you decide you still 
wish to go ahead with the transfer  and investment against  the advice in my report, I 
require from you a letter stating your reasons for going ahead and confirming your 
understanding and acceptance of the risks involved.
Please also complete the enclosed asset  form as we require a full understanding  of 
your financial  position. I will then further consider your request  and make  a decision 
as to whether  to facilitate the transfer  or close the case.
In a handwritten  letter  dated 6 October 2012,  Mr P wrote:
I am in receipt of your letter dated  2/10/2012 regarding proposed investment into 
carbon credits.  Having given this much  consideration I would like to change my 
investment choice from carbon credits to Brazilian Land with Green Planet plc.
I have looked  into this as an investment and believe there is fantastic  growth 
potential with Brazil going through  a boom at present and having done  some 
research online found that the Brazilian economy has one of the strongest GDP.
I would be grateful if you would accept this as my confirmation of change and 
proceed with this as my investment  choice forthwith.
On 16 October 2012, an Assets and other  pensions  arrangements form was completed.  
This said Mr P owned a property worth £96,000 and had another pension  - the value was 
unknown. 
Ref: DRN11765853An addendum transfer report was produced  dated 22 October  2012, this said,
You have asked in your letter dated 6th October  2012 that I facilitate the transfer of 
your pension(s)  into a SIPP to enable you to invest in the White Sands  Country  Club 
in Brazil instead of your previous intention of investing in Carbon Credits.
As overseas property  is an unregulated  investment, as is Carbon Credits,  my advice 
remains that you should remain in your existing  plans. By going  ahead with the 
proposed transfer  and investment you could  lose your retirement  fund with no 
recourse.
However, I will facilitate your request  and arrange the transfer  on the understanding 
that you are going  ahead with this transfer  and unregulated investment against my 
advice and the responsibility for the investments  chosen is entirely your own.
This type of investment  is highly  speculative  and not suitable  for a cautious investor 
such as yourself. If you decide  to proceed against advice you should ensure that 
exposure to Offshore Property does not exceed 25% of your transferred  fund.
Mr P went  ahead with the transfer; signing risk warning documents two days  later.  
£22,703.96 was transferred from his ex-employers  Pension Scheme and £58,475.06  from 
Phoenix Life. These funds were transferred to a SIPP with London  & Colonial. Of this sum, 
£62,400 was invested in the White Sands Country  Club investment with Green  Planet.
Documents from the time Easy arranged the transfer of Mr Ps pensions recorded the 
following information;
He was aged 50, married with no dependants.
He was employed earning £17,565 pa.
His planned retirement age was 67
His attitude to investment risk was Cautious
The security of my pension  fund was recorded  as Mr Ps number one priority, 
followed by Providing  for my partner  and children. To increase my pension was 
scored 5 on a list of 1 to 6 of objectives; where 1 was the highest priority.
Mr P understood any reservation fee would  be taken from the funds transferred.
Easy received 3% of the sum transferred  for arranging the transaction.
Mr P complained to WSW. They investigated the complaint, but did not uphold it. In 
summary, they said:
The introducer, Smith  Osborne, was a regulated firm. Mr P was introduced to Easy, 
who acted as a pension transfer  bureau.  They  dealt with many enquiries. A small 
proportion of those  referrals were dealt  with as insistent clients.
Mr P had decided to buy carbon credits before being given pensions advice. The 
concept of carbon  credits had been introduced  by an unregulated firm. Mr P could 
not invest in carbon  credits.  He then changed  his investment  to White Sands.  WSW  
believes this was introduced by Smith  Osborne.
WSW  received no payment for the investment  in White Sands.
Ref: DRN11765854They advised Mr P in clear terms that he should not transfer  his pension benefits to 
invest in carbon credits. The risks were  fully explained. And they said these 
investments were intended for sophisticated investors. 
Mr P chose  to ignore  that advice. This was a handwritten letter from Mr P.
The fee they received was for carrying out Mr Ps instructions to transfer his pension  
to a SIPP. The transfer was on an insistent client basis.
The involvement of Easy  ceased after the transfer was made.
In August 2011 they contacted the Financial  Services Authority (FSA); the regulator 
at the time. They were  advised  that they could transact  the business without liability.
There has been recent clarification from the Financial Conduct  Authority on the 
subject of Insistent  Clients. In a response  to APFA  they said:  "If the client  does not 
accept the recommendation but  from an informed position - states that they want  to 
do something different  - i.e. they are insistent clients - the adviser can arrange this if 
they wish. This is fine so long as the adviser is genuine about providing their advice  
and the reasons for it and highlighting  clearly the risks of the course  of action the 
client is intent on taking. Hence  the client has been put in the position of being able to 
make an informed decision."  This goes to show that the stance of the two regulators  
has not altered  despite the various alerts issued on Unregulated Products.
The liability should  be with Smith  Osborne or the SIPP  provider.
Our adjudicator wrote to WSW. He said he thought the complaint should be upheld. The 
reasons he gave were, in summary:
Mr P was persuaded to transfer  his pension benefits by an unregulated agent.  He 
was then referred to Smith Osborne.  As they didnt  have the required permissions he 
was referred to Easy.
Mr P was guided by what the unregulated  agent  told him. And he was offered a tax-
free sum as an incentive to transfer. But, Mr P says that he didnt have any debts at 
the time.  He was told this would be a good  investment.
Easy recognised  that Mr P should not have been advised to transfer his pension or 
invest in carbon credits. It established  that Mr P was a cautious investor. He wasnt  a 
sophisticated investor and didnt have  the capacity for loss. Easy was right to advise 
against the transfer.
The fact Easy spoke  to the regulator  showed that it had identified arranging this type 
of business represented  a risk. The FSA call handler  said that doing so wouldnt 
breach any rules.  Instead there  was a moral  dilemma about  accepting the business.
Mr Ps transfer wasnt an isolated case of a consumer insisting on acting against  
Easys advice. This should  have raised  questions  about why so many clients were 
acting against  its advice. This was particularly relevant given  the risks Easy had 
identified.
Easy was only paid if the client acted against  its advice.  This was a conflict of 
interest. It was an incentive for Easy to process  the transfer against its clients  best 
interests.
The process adopted by Easy allowed clients to ignore the advice they had been  
given. This went against the spirit  of the guidance  recently  issued by the regulator  
about insistent  clients. 
The handwritten  confirmation Mr P wanted  to go ahead was most likely influenced by 
the unregulated  agent.
Ref: DRN11765855Easy should have  identified the moral dilemma as to whether it was acting in Mr Ps 
best interests. This is the clients  best interest  rule  COBS 2.1.1. Given  the number 
of cases and that it knew the decision  to transfer was wrong for Mr P, Easy  did not 
act in Mr Ps best interests.
Easy should have  realised that the decision to transfer was driven  by an unregulated 
agent. That was the reason for so many insistent clients.
WSW didnt agree  with the adjudicator.  They told us:
Much  of the investigation outlines  the role of another  adviser. But the role of the other  
adviser has been ignored.
Easy was established as a bureau  business accepting introductions from authorised 
financial advice firms. They advised  many  clients during this period. Some of those 
were advised not to transfer their pension.  Accurate figures are not available. The 
proportion of cases involving unregulated or esoteric  investments introduced by 
financial advisers was less than 1%.
The process followed for all clients introduced  to Easy was the same.  An introducer 
agreement was signed. The financial adviser  then completed a fact find with their 
client. The facts had to be confirmed by the client as being correct.  Easy  would only 
then begin the advice  stage.
The client remained  a client of the introducing financial  adviser.  In this case Smith 
Osborne  a regulated financial adviser.
In every case transacted  by Easy a fee was only charged if a pension  was 
transferred. This policy was aimed at encouraging  authorised financial advisers to 
introduce cases to Easy.  Some  people might view the policy  as a poor one since  it 
involved Easy working on cases that might not result  in any payment of fees. It did 
allow authorised  financial advisers to introduce  cases to Easy for analysis without 
risk to the adviser or their client and this was for the good of Easy  in the long term.
WSW made  the following  comments  about the background  to the complaint:
Easy did not make  any contact with Mr P either  in 2009 or 2012.
Mr P had specifically asked to invest in carbon  credits via an unregulated agent. 
Easy gave advice  not to transfer and not invest in carbon credits. They explained 
they could not find a SIPP that would accept the carbon credits.  He could then either 
abandon the transfer or go ahead  against the advice and use different carbon credit  
contracts. Mr P then replied saying he wanted to switch investment to Brazilian Land 
with Green Planet  PLC. 
Mr P consulted  with Smith Osborne about  the investment. Why is the liability  being  
placed on Easy who gave  advice not to invest?
The advice given  to Mr P was not to transfer.  Surely, the matter should  be closed at 
this point.
The phone call to the FSA was a responsible action  from a reasonable firm reacting 
to an area of the market for which  it had no previous experience. The clear  advice 
from the FSA was that firms are responsible for the advice they give. If a client 
ignores that advice  there is no breach of the rules. The adjudicator had chosen  to 
take one small part of the conversation  to trigger the clients  best interests  rule. At 
what stage does  the client have some responsibility?
They could not disagree with the adjudicator more  about the process  they used. It 
followed the guidance that has subsequently been issued by the regulator  for 
insistent clients.
Ref: DRN11765856The handwritten  letter from Mr P was received through the post. There  is no 
indication that it was as a result of influence from elsewhere.  The adjudicator has 
ignored the possibility Mr P researched the investment himself.
The number of cases Easy processed as insistent clients  should not affect the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Mr P was provided with a statement explaining the risks of the investments. He 
signed the statement to confirm he understood the risks.
At the time of the advice Mr P was 51. The minimum  age for taking  retirement 
benefits had been  increased  to 55. The payment he received was therefore  a big 
incentive to transfer.
Easy restricted their role to the establishment of the SIPP.  They took no part in 
buying the investments. At the time this was deemed acceptable practice. It is only 
subsequently the regulator has changed  the rules.
The views expressed by the adjudicator in this case are different from those reached 
by adjudicators in other cases. There should  be some consistency.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
how did Mr P find out about  carbon credits and Brazilian  property?
Mr P told our adjudicator  that he had been  contacted in 2009 and again in 2012.  He said he 
thought this was an individual working for Easy.  I accept  that Mr P was contacted  about 
some investments, but I think its unlikely this was someone working  for Easy. The transfer 
report issued by Easy named an unregulated firm. I think its more  likely that the individual 
worked for that unregulated firm. 
Given that Mr P intended to invest in carbon credits and Easy established he was a cautious 
investor that should  have put Easy on alert that this was a high risk transaction.  I think  they 
should have made enquiries of Mr P as to why he intended to invest  in this way. I think  Mr P 
would then have  explained what had happened. Easy should then have understood that it 
was the unregulated agent who had sold these investments  to Mr P.
The role of the other parties - unregulated  agent;  Smith Osborne and SIPP  provider
Mr P was introduced to Easy  by Smith Osborne. However, they have acknowledged that 
they knew an unregulated agent was involved. Mr P approached Easy  with the intention  of 
investing in carbon credits.  But this was an investment that would only have been suitable  
for a sophisticated investor. Easy identified that Mr P had no real investment experience; 
and he was cautious about  taking  investment  risk. 
Easy advised against the transfer and that Carey pensions could not accept  the carbon 
credit investment Mr P wanted to make. So Mr P said he wanted an alternative investment in 
Brazilian property. 
Ref: DRN11765857contingent charging
Easy did not charge a fee unless the transfer  of pension benefits went  ahead. WSW  said 
that: 
every single case dealt  with by Easy Financial Planning  (UK) LLP - whether on an 
advised basis or on an Insistent Client basis - was dealt with in the same  way.
Some people might view the policy as a poor one since  it involved the firm working 
on cases that might not result in any payment of fees. It did allow  authorised financial 
advisers to introduce  cases to the firm for analysis without  risk to the adviser or their 
client and this was for the good  of Easy Financial Planning in the long term.
This is exactly  the point.  This process was in the long term interests  of Easy.  So there  is a 
conflict of interest with the client, in this case Mr P. If Easy decided not to process the 
transfer because  it was not in Mr Ps best interests Easy  would not be paid.  I think  that was a 
clear incentive to arrange the transfer,  even though Easy had advised against it. This is a 
point that I have attached significant  weight to in reaching my decision.
the call to the FSA
WSW clearly understood that this was a risky transaction. That appears to be the reason  
why a telephone call was made to the regulator.  But I dont think the employee at the 
regulator was given the full set of facts.  And I dont think the guidance  issued since  then can 
cover every set of circumstances. One factor that I think is important is the number of 
insistent clients dealt  with by WSW. I would expect the number of clients  who act against 
advice given by a regulated adviser to be very small. This was the point made in the 1994 
pensions review guidance. In my view, that is as relevant now as it was over 20 years  ago.
causation
Mr P received a payment  of £17,970.  This appears to have been from the unregulated 
agent. I accept what  Mr P says that he thought he would then receive an ongoing income 
from the pension.  I think  this was likely to have been part of the sales pitch  made  to him 
about the investments.
The total amount  transferred to the SIPP was £81,179. So the payment  Mr P received was 
just over 20% of the value of the SIPP. This is clearly  a large proportion and could have 
influenced Mr Ps decision  to proceed. 
I accept that Easy did not know about this payment. But I see no reason why Mr P would not 
have told Easy, if they had asked him why he wanted to invest  in the Brazilian property. And 
if Easy knew  that such a payment was going  to be made it should have realised that this was 
likely to be a scam.  It wasnt a payment from the pension  returns.  And if over 20% was paid 
to Mr P this was a large proportion of his investment. I think  its reasonable to conclude that 
the unregulated  agent was also being  paid from Mr Ps pension fund. Its very difficult to see 
how this investment would make  returns for Mr P with such  high sales  costs.
Mr P has told us that he and his wife had financial difficulties after he received the payment. 
Although the money was used to help with those problems, Mr P says that it didnt  help in 
the end.
Ref: DRN11765858In my view, Easy should  have  established why Mr P wanted to invest his pension funds in 
unregulated investments. Im satisfied that Mr P would have explained his reasons as 
believing the returns that he had been promised by the unregulated agent. At that point Easy 
should then have explained that those returns were very unlikely to be achieved.  And Easy 
should have explained that it was regulated to give financial  advice.  Anything  said by the 
unregulated agent should have been treated with caution.
On balance, I think Mr P would then have  followed  the advice  given by Easy  and not 
transferred his pension  benefits. He was placing his pension fund of £81,179 at significant 
risk for a payment of £17,970. This was effectively a payment made from his own pension 
funds. I dont think he would have gone ahead, if Easy had acted in his best interests.
Mr Ps responsibilities
Mr P does have some  responsibilities.  But, he was receiving financial advice from Easy.  
That advice had to follow the rules at the time. In my view, Easy did not comply with the 
Clients best interests rule. I think that if Easy had set out the advice, including an 
explanation about the investments  then Mr P would have acted on that advice.
Duty of consistency
WSW referred  to other cases investigated  by this service. They  say those cases have similar 
facts and so should reach  similar outcomes. I have considered those cases. They  were 
resolved at the first stage  of our process  after an adjudicator gave an initial view. There  are 
some differing facts  in the cases.  One of the important things is that I am aware that there  
were a large  number of similar cases. I think its likely all of these cases  were investigated 
without that knowledge. It is therefore  possible that those cases  could have been decided 
differently by an ombudsman. In any event, I am not bound by previous decisions that have 
been made.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. Mr P transferred two pension  policies into 
the SIPP. Im satisfied that the investment was not suitable and neither was the SIPP.  But, I 
think Mr P could  have been  suitably advised  to transfer to a stakeholder pension or low 
charging personal pension.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ps circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  WSW do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  WSW must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If there is a loss, WSW should  pay a sum into Mr Ps 
pension plan to increase its value  by the total amount of the compensation and any 
interest. The amount  paid should  allow for the effect  of charges and any available  tax 
relief.
Ref: DRN11765859Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If WSW is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ps pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, Mr P would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum,  so the reduction  should  be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay to Mr P £500 for the distress  caused  by the loss of his pension fund. Mr P now 
wishes to draw  his pension benefits,  but is unable  to do so as the investment has no 
value.
WSW should add interest as set out below. Income  tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If WSW deducts income  tax from the interest  it should tell Mr P how much  has been taken 
off. WSW should give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
London & 
Colonial  
SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement  
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. We have been 
told that the SIPP is now held in cash funds.  That should  be easy to place a value on. Mr P 
will need  to decide  for himself what he should  do with the SIPP.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN117658510To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  WSW  should  
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if WSW totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
The payment of £17,970 should be treated as a withdrawal on the date it was received by 
Mr P. If there is a tax charge on the payment WSW  should  pay that tax charge when it falls 
due.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr P was a cautious investor. He wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Ps risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr P into that position.  It does  not mean that Mr P would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr P could  have  obtained  from investments  suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that WSW Financial Services  Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
WSW should provide details of its calculation  to Mr P in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1176585