K820x#14complaint
The leaseholders of a block of flats complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) 
declined two parts of their claim on their building warranty. 
All the leaseholders in the block are party to this complaint. 
Throughout this claim  and complaint all leaseholders have been represented by the directors  
of the building management  company, that I will refer to as W. For ease  of reading all 
references to W refer to the actions of the directors, on behalf of all leaseholders. 
background
W is the management  company  for a block of 56 flats.  The building came  with a ten-year  
building warranty provided by NHBC. From around 2015, W experienced problems in the 
common areas of the building,  that led to it raising a number of claims under section 3 of the 
warranty.  
In 2018 W raised another claim that encompassed a number of different issues.  NHBC 
investigated the claim and accepted some elements of it. However,  it declined  Ws claim  for 
defects relating to the walls around  the fire doors and the roof of the building.  
In relation to the fire doors, it said while it agreed  there were  defects with the walls 
surrounding the doors, there was no physical  damage. And it is a condition  of section 3 that 
both are present  for a claim to be accepted.
In relation to the roof, NHBC said it declined the claim  as flat roofs are excluded  from 
warranty cover.
W didnt agree with these  declinatures and made a complaint. It said it disagreed with 
NHBCs interpretation of the term physical damage and felt that a reasonable interpretation 
would support there being physical damage to the walls around  the fire doors. It also felt the 
claim should be considered under section 4 of the warranty as the defect presents a fire risk.
W also said that while flat roofs arent specifically mentioned as being  covered under the 
warranty, load bearing walls were.  And it felt the roof would meet the definition of a load 
bearing wall. 
NHBC didnt uphold Ws complaints so it brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said in order  to meet  a reasonable definition 
of physical damage, there needs  to be tangible damage to the property. And he didnt agree 
that the walls that surround the fire doors  displayed any tangible  damage caused by the 
defects. Further he said that as NHBC hadnt carried out building control on the building,  
section 4 of the policy  wouldnt apply. 
He also didnt agree  that the roof of the building would meet a reasonable definition  of a load 
bearing wall. And as flat roofs arent listed as part of the inclusions of the warranty, it was 
reasonable that NHBC declined this part of the claim. 
Ref: DRN11791502W didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said that the warranty specifically covers  
load bearing parts of the roof and felt the roof falls into this definition. It referred to an expert 
opinion and a recent court case that it felt was relevant. 
In relation to the walls surrounding the fire doors, W didnt  agree there  wasnt tangible 
physical damage.  It said a reasonable definition that had been  used in a recent court  case  
against an insurer defined  physical damage as a material difference in the
physical condition of the new home from its intended  physical condition  and felt the gaps 
around the doors fitted this definition.  So it was reasonable to say there was both a defect 
and damage.
W asked for its complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
When the complaint  came  to me, I came to a different outcome to our investigator. So I 
wrote to both W and NHBC to explain my findings.  
I agreed that W had done enough to show there was both a defect and physical damage  
present on the main  and tank room  roof of the building. And I thought that W made a 
compelling argument as to why this would reasonably be covered under the warranty.  
Following discussions with NHBC,  whilst it didnt agree the roof was covered by the policy, it 
offered to carry out the required repairs to rectify the defects to the roof highlighted in the 
complaint, as a gesture of goodwill.  I was satisfied this was fair.
However, I agreed with our investigator that NHBC had acted fairly  by declining  the claim for 
the walls  surrounding  the fire doors.  For a claim to be successful  under section 3 of the 
warranty, there needs to be both a defect and physical damage. And while I agree there is a 
defect  the gaps  around the doors, I havent seen  anything to show that this has caused 
any physical damage.
W has said it doesnt agree with the definition of physical damage that has been  applied by 
NHBC when assessing  the claim. It has proposed other definitions that it says show  there is 
physical damage.
When there isnt a definition listed in a policy, this service considers a reasonable definition  
of the term and phrase. I agree with our investigator that in order  for there to be physical 
damage, there needs to be tangible  damage to the property as well as a defect. And Ive not 
seen anything to show that the defect has caused  any tangible damage.
W has said that a reasonable  definition of physical damage can be taken from a recent court  
case in which it was defined as a material difference in the physical condition of the new 
home from its intended physical condition. However  I dont agree this would reasonably  
apply here.  NHBCs warranty states that both a defect and physical  damage  need to be 
present in order for a claim to be successful.  Its therefore reasonable to conclude that the 
definitions of these  two terms need  to be sufficiently different. I dont consider the definitions 
of physical damage proposed by W to be sufficiently different from that of a defect. So I dont 
agree the application of this definition would  be a reasonable reading of the wording of the 
warranty.
response to my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN11791503W responded to my provisional findings  and agreed  to the proposals.  However,  it raised 
concerns about  the timescales for the work  being carried out, due to previous delays it has 
experienced. It also requested to use its own contractor to carry out the repairs to the roof. 
NHBC responded to confirm it would agree to cover the repairs to the roof. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has offered any further  comment on the walls  around the fire doors,  I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings on this point. So, I wont require NHBC to do 
anything further  in relation to this part of the claim.
Regarding the claim for the roof, I have  considered  Ws comments about  the timescales for 
the repair work. While  it isnt possible to guarantee when work will be completed, as it can be 
delayed due to circumstances  outside of NHBCs control, I understand the need to ensure 
the next steps are carried out promptly. Particularly due to the length of time the claim has 
been ongoing. I proposed  that timescales are agreed for the commencement and completion 
of the work. Both NHBC and W have agreed  to adhere to the following timescales, unless 
NHBC are prevented from doing so due to unforeseen circumstances:
NHBC will make contact with W within two weeks  of the acceptance of this decision 
to arrange a date for the investigatory work.
The date for investigations  to begin should  be arranged within the three months after 
this contact.
Repairs will then be completed within six months  of the investigatory  work finishing  
subject to unforeseen factors that prevent this, such as adverse weather.
I have also considered Ws request that repairs are carried out by its chosen contractor, but I 
dont think it would be fair to require NHBC  to cover the cost of this. NHBC work with a small 
number of contractors  who are familiar with its policies and work  at agreed rates. So, I think 
its reasonable that it instructs  one of its panel to carry out the investigatory work and repairs. 
For these reasons, I maintain my provisional decision that NHBC should carry out the 
required investigatory and repair work  to the main and tank room roof of the building, using 
its appointed contractors and based on the timescales above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Ws complaint. I require National House-Building Council 
to:
Identify and repair any current defects  that are found  to be causing  the issues raised 
in this complaint  relating to the main roof and tank room  roof of the building. 
Carry out repairs where there is found to be a defect relating to issues  raised in this 
complaint  this is limited to addressing problems with water  ingress,  water  drainage  
and water proofing of the tank room  and main roof. Repairs will be to address these 
issues and bring the roof in line with NHBC building regulations.
Repair any damage caused  by the identified  issues  to the flats or common  areas 
directly below the affected roofs.  
Appoint its own contractors to carry out the investigatory and repair  work.
Ref: DRN11791504Adhere to the timescales laid out in this decision,  unless it is prevented from doing so 
due to unforeseen circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1179150