K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2002. It was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I dont know for certain what was said at the time the policy was sold,  
but FICL  has provided a copy of Mrs Ms application form. The form had a separate  section 
for PPI where Mrs M has signed in agreement  with the PPI separately from signing in 
agreement with the card itself. Mrs M has told us she would  have signed  for the PPI 
separately as she wasnt  aware  what it was. But I think the form is clear in showing that this 
was a separate product.  So overall  I think FICL made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mrs M has told us she was entitled to sick pay when she applied for the PPI. She also 
had a life insurance  policy  and could  have relied on friends and family to help if she was 
unable to make her repayments.  But the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ms sick 
pay, and for longer. It would  also have  paid out in circumstance that her life insurance 
wouldnt have. While  Mrs Ms friends and family  would have wanted to help, their ability  to 
would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time,  which  could have changed. 
So I dont  think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN18418982 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, but these  points  dont change  my conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1841898