K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains County  Insurance  Consultants Limiteds poor administration of his taxi 
insurance policy caused it to be cancelled by the insurer. 
 
Mr F had a representative dealing with his insurance policy. For simplicity, unless specifically 
stated, Ive referred to the actions of the representative as being those of Mr F.
background
In September  2018 Mr Fs taxi insurance policy was due for renewal. County, as a broker,  
arranged a policy for him. Almost a month later the insurer  cancelled the policy. It did that as 
information it had requested,  including DVLA access codes, hadnt been  provided by Mr F. 
Mr F says Countys  mistake caused  the insurer to cancel. He feels  it led drivers to stop 
working for him and him losing income. In response  to his complaint County said it had 
explained to him what information was required and how to obtain  it. It said he had been  
sent various reminders by email and text message. But he still failed to provide the 
information. Mr F doesnt accept that. He wants County to compensate  him.
Our Investigator  didnt think County had done anything wrong. So he didnt recommend it 
pay Mr F any compensation or do anything differently. Mr F didnt accept his findings. So the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
I recently explained my thoughts on the complaint  to both Mr F and County. I explained  why I 
didnt intend to require County pay Mr F any compensation or do anything  differently. Ive 
copied in my reasons for this below. I also asked Mr F and County if they had any comments  
or information to provide before I issued a final decision.   
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making County  
pay Mr F any compensation or do anything differently.
This complaint is about the broker County,  not the insurer. The decision to cancel the cover  
was for the insurer. So I havent looked at that. Instead Ive considered  if County did 
anything wrong  that led to the cancellation  and if it treated Mr F fairly and reasonably.  
I can see Mr F was told by County, when agreeing to the policy, what information was 
required. That included  the DVLA access codes. Ive also seen that County sent various 
emails reminding him to provide the information. Mr F was also sent warnings about the 
possibility of cancellation. Eventually  the policy was cancelled by the insurer. I cant say 
County was to blame for that. Unfortunately,  Mr F didnt provide the information in time. 
 
Theres been some discussion about  text messages not being received by Mr Fs 
representative. Ive seen records from County that make me think the texts probably  were 
sent. It seems they went to Mr F instead  of the representative. But they were  only intended 
to notify that an email  had been sent.  The texts provided a summary of the emails  content. 
Im satisfied, from what the representatives  said, that he received  the various emails. So 
even if the texts went to the wrong  number  I cant see that it made any difference.   
 
Mr F says he arranged  insurance with a different  provider. He says it didnt require the DVLA 
codes. But that doesnt mean County did anything wrong by asking for them. The insurer  
Ref: DRN12840832required them for this policy.  County let Mr F know that a number of times. He says County 
could have got the codes  from the DVLA.  He feels it was being awkward by refusing to. It 
says it wasnt able to. I havent  seen anything  that makes me think thats not correct.   
According to Mr F, County didnt arrange new cover when it said it would. He says he lost 
income because  of this situation. And he feels he ended up paying  multiple  times to be 
covered for the same period. Ive already said I dont think  County was at fault for the 
cancellation happening. And it was the cancellation  that resulted  in Mr F having  to pay for 
new cover.   So Im not going to make  County pay Mr F any compensation or do anything  
differently.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
County said it was happy with my findings.  It didnt provide  any further information. 
Mr F didnt  accept what I said. He provided some  comments. These repeated  points he had 
made previously and that I have already considered.  They  include him feeling County were 
being awkward by not finding  the codes for him. The new policy not requiring provision of the 
codes. Text messages  not being received by the representative.  And County not arranging  
new cover  when it said it would. As Ive already  addressed  these points I wont  do so again 
here.  
It was the cancellation that resulted in the various  problems Mr F encountered. I still dont 
think County was at fault for the cancellation  happening. I dont think  it did anything wrong 
that caused Mr F to lose out. So Im not going  to make it pay Mr F any compensation or do 
anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making County Insurance  Consultants Limited pay 
Mr F any compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1284083