K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Legal and General Insurance Limited (who has changed  its name to 
Fairmead Insurance Limited but who Ill refer to in this decision as Legal and General) has 
refused to settle  a claim for water damage under  her landlord household insurance policy.
Background
In January 2018 Miss H made a claim for water damage at her letting property. Legal and 
General appointed a contractor (C) to manage  the claim. Miss H was abroad  at the time so 
she authorised her letting  agent (J) to manage  the claim on her behalf. 
C validated the claim and a cash settlement was offered  to Miss H. Miss H asked Legal  and 
General to carry out the repairs to the property.
On 13 March 2018 Legal and General  contacted J and informed him that the claim had been 
declined. It said that the property had been  unoccupied at the time of the damage and the 
water system hadnt been turned off, nor had the tanks and pipes been drained down. It 
acccepted that there had been some delay and offered  compensation.
Miss H complained to this service. She says the terms of the policy are unfair and she wants 
her claim paid in full.
 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the policy  document was clear that 
there was no cover  between lets unless the requirements of general condition  12 had been 
met. She said it wasnt unusual for an insurance provider to require a policy  holder to meet  
the terms in order  for a claim to be paid. The investigator thought  Legal  and Generals  
decision to decline the claim was reasonable but said the claim  hadnt  been handled fairly 
and that the repudiation  of the claim had been  unnecessarily delayed.  She said Legal and 
General should  pay compensation of £250.
Miss H didnt agree. She said the clause was unfair and not in line with the latest guidance to 
landlords and letting agents  to keep the heating  on to reduce the risk of dampness and burst  
pipes during periods of un-occupancy. She said that most  other  insurance policies required 
the water  to be turned off at the mains and the system drained or the heating to be 
maintained at 15 degrees at all times.  
Miss H also said the exclusion term was unfair because it prevented any maintenance work 
being carried out in between lets. Miss H said the clause was unreasonable because its 
effect was to require  the pipes to be drained even if there was one day between  the old 
tenant moving out and the new tenant moving in. She said there ought to be a grace  period.
Miss H disagreed with the level of suggested compensation. She said Legal  and General 
had sufficient information to decline the claim in January 2018 but because of the delay, 
Miss H hadnt been able to begin repairs until May 2018, during which time the property 
couldve been repaired and let. She didnt  think it was fair that Legal and General had 
continued to take payments to insure the property  during this time when there was no 
prospect of any future claim  being covered because the property had been unoccupied for 
more than 40 days.
Ref: DRN11925812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Hs policy exclude cover for loss or damage caused by 
escape of water in a property which isnt being lived in unless, at the time of the damage, 
either the landlord or the manging agent has carried out all of the following actions and 
continues to do so whilst  the property is unoccupied:
(a) within 14 days, inspected outside  and inside  the home, retaining a documentary  
record of the inspection
(b) turned off all gas and oil services at the mains or supply tank
(c) turned off the domestic water system at the main stopcock
(d) drained down  all equipment, tanks  and pipes containing water  between 1 
November and 31 March
(e) closed all doors and windows and put effectively into operation  all security  
devices (including  locks and alarms) fitted to the home. All keys must  have been 
removed from locks  and taken away from the home
Ive looked at the policy document.  The exclusion appears in long form at general condition  
12. Theres also a highlighted notice at the beginning of the policy drawing the policy holders 
attention to the obligations under general condition 12.
Im satisfied that Legal and General have made  the terms and conditions relating to 
unoccupied property very clear. So I think Miss H wouldve  been  aware   or ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware  of her obligations.
Theres no dispute that the property  was unoccupied at the time the water  damage occurred. 
Similarly, theres no dispute that the central  heating system had been left running and that 
tanks and pipes hadnt been drained  down.  Because of this, Im satisfied that parts  (c) and 
(d) of general condition 12 werent adhered  to and Im unable to say that Legal and General 
acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Miss H has raised a number of issues about  the fairness of the terms and conditions. Ill 
address these in turn.
Miss H has said that the exclusions  arent in line with the latest advice for landlords. I 
understand Miss Hs motives in leaving the heating  on during the winter months but I think  
the terms of the policy are clear. I havent  seen  the specific  advice to landlords that Miss H 
has referred to; however,  guidance doesnt  override the terms of the policy.
Miss H has said that other insurance  policies have different  requirements.  That may be the 
case. But Im only able to consider the terms of Miss Hs policy,  and these terms clearly set 
out her obligations  when  the property is unoccupied.
Miss H has said that the definition of unoccupied  isnt clear in the policy.  Ive looked at the 
wording. This says that Legal and General wont pay for loss or damage  occurring if the 
Ref: DRN11925813home has not been lived in for more  than 40 consecutive days  at the time of the loss or 
damage. There is also no cover prior to the commencement of the first tenancy, between 
lets, or where the landlord or the managing  agent are aware that the home  is not being lived 
in, unless the requirements of general condition  12 have been met
I think the meaning of unoccupied is clear. I appreciate that Miss H has found different 
wordings in other insurance policies but as Ive said above, Im only able to consider the 
terms of Miss Hs policy.
Miss H has explained  that the property was in between  lets at the time of the damage. She 
acknowledges that the policy says theres no cover between lets unless the obligations in 
general condition  12 are met, but says this is unfair  because maintenance work cant  be 
carried out in between lets without running  water. I understand the point Miss H makes  and I 
appreciate that maintenance  will be required from time to time. 
I can see that there have  been delays in the handling of Miss Hs claim. I understand the 
disappointment and frustration she mustve  felt when the claim was initially accepted  and 
then repudiated  a few weeks later. Looking at the information which was available to Legal 
and General in January 2018  and in particular Cs report, Im of the view that it had sufficient 
information at this stage to know  that the terms of the policy hadnt been met. So I think  
Legal and General must accept responsibility  for the delay in advising Miss H that her claim 
had been repudiated.
Miss H has made a number of points about policy cover during this time. I cant say whether 
Miss H wouldve had any claims covered.  To comment on this would be speculative  because 
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that any claims were made during this time.
Ive considered whether Miss H suffered any loss of rental income during this period. 
However, because  the property  wasnt  let at the time of the water damage, and because I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  that a new tenancy was due to start, Im not 
persuaded that Miss H has suffered an actual loss of rental income.
Taking everything into account,  Im unable to say that the terms of Miss Hs policy are 
unreasonable. I dont think Legal and General acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
However, I do think it couldve handled  the claim better. By initially  accepting the claim, 
Legal and General have  caused Miss H a loss of expectation and by delaying  its decision to 
repudiate the claim it has caused distress and inconvenience to Miss H. 
I think Legal and General  should pay compensation to Miss H. Im aware that it offered (but 
hasnt paid) compensation of £200. Miss H has said that she didnt know  about this offer 
because it was sent to the rental  property  address  where she doesnt live. I dont think £200 
is enough to reflect the distress caused by the misinformation that Miss Hs claim would  be 
paid and the subsequent  repudiation.  In my view the sum of £250  is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. However, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Legal and General Insurance Limited must pay compensation of £250 to Miss H. 
Legal and General Insurance  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss H accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Ref: DRN11925814Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1192581