K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained HSBC UK Bank  plc wont accept  his fraud claim for £51,000 which  he 
didnt take from his account.
background
On 4, 7, 8 and 29 August 2017 four large  cash withdrawals were made from Mr Fs HSBC  
account, totalling £51,000.  This was his life-savings.
Mr F says he didnt  make these transactions, and reported the matter to HSBC  as fraud. He 
said hed lost his wallet and had reported  his lost card to it at the end of July 2017.
HSBC investigated,  and declined the fraud  claim. It said that Mr Fs driving  licence was used 
to withdraw the money in branch. It also said Mr F should have realised  sooner,  when  using 
online banking, his balance  was depleting  quickly. It also said the pattern of withdrawals, 
over 25 days, didnt seem typical of fraud,  and that the person taking the cash  seemed to 
know the remaining  balance available on each occasion.
Mr F said his lost bank card was used  to make the withdrawals, and that somebody had 
stolen his identity.  He said CCTV would prove this. He also explained that he only realised 
what had happened  when he logged into his online banking service to cancel  a direct debit 
at the end of August 2017,  and that he hadnt noticed earlier because when using his mobile 
banking app he didnt  get to see his balance.
Mr F brought  his complaint to our service, and our adjudicator investigated. She concluded  
that although she couldnt say with certainty  whod made the cash withdrawals,  and whether 
or not this was Mr F, she also couldnt  say that Mr F hadnt authorised or allowed them to be 
made. On that basis, she didnt think HSBC had been wrong  to decline Mr Fs claim, and 
close his account.
Mr F didnt  think  this was right. He maintained that the CCTV footage  would prove it wasnt  
him who withdrew the money. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
During the intervening period, Mr F gave us a statutory declaration of a name change  which  
took place in March 2018. He said this was because  he continued to be a victim of ID fraud 
and was to protect  himself. HSBC would know Mr F under his previous name, Mr S.
Mr F also provided us with details of an attempted fraud on the bank account he opened 
after HSBC  closed his.
I completed a provisional decision on 29 January 2020. I did this because  of the time that 
had passed since  our adjudicator had written her view,  although  I came  to the same 
conclusion that Mr F authorised these transactions.
We received no response from Mr F. HSBC accepted our provisional decision.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
Ref: DRN12085662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did when  completing the provisional  decision. As I received no further 
evidence or comments to review, my final decision follows  the same  line as my provisional  
decision.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making on Mr Fs complaint. So when we 
look at whether a bank  has acted fairly  in rejecting  someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both HSBC  and Mr F have told us. Our investigator also got hold of evidence  from 
Mr Fs other  bank when he told us thered been  an attempt to withdraw funds from that 
account as well. I can also see that attempt was thwarted  by the bank involved.  
The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
Mr F only opened this HSBC savings account  in April 2017. He transferred £38,000 
straightaway into this account  from his bank account.
He notified  HSBC that hed lost his debit card on 31 July 2017. Even if somebody 
had located Mr Fs debit card I dont  see how theyd  know  he had a savings account.
Mr F didnt say his driving licence  had gone missing at the same  time. He has said he 
reported his missing driving  licence to DVLA around this time.
The money was taken out in two different branches.  On 4 August £3,500 was taken 
out. On 7 August £25,000.  On 8 August £20,000. On 29 August £2,500  was 
withdrawn. HSBC accept  Mr Fs driving  licence was used as identification for these 
withdrawals.
HSBC has no record of branch conversations at the time or whether  they queried 
why these withdrawals were being  made.
Mr F doesnt  dispute he logged onto his account  on 1, 12, 22 and 30 August. He says 
he didnt notice his savings account being depleted until he logged onto his account 
on 30 August. This was because  it was only then he used HSBCs online banking  
service rather  than their app and could  see the balance of his savings account on the 
same page.
Mr F did a short spell of work experience at one of the HSBC branches  where the 
withdrawals took place.
Mr F has a history  of fraud claims with HSBC. One of these cases  involved a similar 
case where someone else pretending to be Mr F had withdrawn cash  from his 
account. At that time there was evidence of transfers from Mr F to the party 
pretending to be him. 
Hed also claimed his card had been  used to withdraw cash fraudulently from cash  
machines. HSBC had not refunded the disputed £900.
Mr F told us he did report this to the police  although HSBC felt he hadnt.  He has 
confirmed he also reported this to Action Fraud.  I suspect he would know they dont 
investigate fraud  cases themselves.
Ref: DRN12085663Mr F has wondered how someone  could  have just walked into HSBC with his driving licence 
and withdraw all his savings. Ive wondered this point myself. Weve  asked for evidence from 
HSBC of their branch  procedures and also tried to probe whether any questions  were asked 
as the money  was withdrawn.  
From what  I can see someone went into the same  branch two days  running to withdraw 
£45,000 in total. Theres no evidence anybody  at HSBC raised any questions why the 
person  pretending to be Mr F  needed this money or what he was planning  to do with it. 
As it turns out, this fact has not actually had an impact on the decision Im making. But if 
HSBCs other evidence  about what had happened had not been shared, this may have 
turned out to be crucial. My decision could easily have been very different.
I appreciate that Mr F seeks  to rely on CCTV evidence to support his contention  that he 
wasnt involved in the events. But that footage would only ever prove whether he, in person, 
took out the money. What  it wouldnt prove is whether this was done with his knowledge and 
permission. And the issue I need to decide  isnt who physically took the money, but rather 
were these withdrawals authorised.
Whoever took the cash out did so with Mr Fs driving licence. Ive considered this alongside 
all the other  evidence HSBC has cited.  I believe this all points towards a fraud taking place. 
Based on the evidence  presented I believe its more  likely than not that this took place with 
Mr Fs involvement.  I havent explained  all of the evidence behind  this  as HSBC has 
requested I treat some  of the evidence theyve presented  confidentially  but Im sure Mr F 
knows why I say this.
Due to the number of cases  weve been reviewing on this and similar issues, it has taken us 
some time until an ombudsman has been  able to consider his case. Im sorry about this. 
However I find it odd  bearing  in mind Mr F felt £51,000 had been stolen from him  that 
weve not heard from him since April 2019.  In a similar position I dont think  Id have stopped 
knocking on our doors throughout this period.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint against  HSBC 
UK Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1208566