K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2006  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for unemployment only  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £300 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. The paperwork suggests it was free for the first six months 
and it cost £7.97 a month thereafter.  
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a sheet metal worker. He has told us he was entitled to 
statutory sick pay and I assume statutory redundancy pay. He didnt have any other means 
of repaying his mortgage should he be unable to work.  Mr W has said hed suffered from 
various medical conditions before the PPI was taken out. 
YBS has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account started in 2006 and was a 
regulated mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ws representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
Ref: DRN16152472The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN16152473GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so YBS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN16152474-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Ive seen a copy  of Mr and 
Mrs Ws PPI application form. On it the box opting  for unemployment  cover has a printed 
cross in it. This sale took place in a face to face meeting so I think  its likely  this selection 
came about  as a result  of a conversation where  PPI was discussed.  
Mr and Mrs W have  both signed the PPI application  so I think its likely to reflect what  they 
wanted. Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage offer. On it is a section  related  to 
insurance which says you are not obliged to take out any insurance  through  Yorkshire 
Building Society. Taking everything into account,  I think its more  likely Mr and Mrs W knew  
the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
Both YBS and Mr and Mrs W agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs W. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs W to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr W 
was unable to work  because  of unemployment) and of the costs. The PPI illustration form 
shows the monthly cost and benefit  of the policy, including the benefit  period.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN16152475In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ws. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found YBS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs W. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs W would  have still taken out the policy, had YBS done  things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they would  not have taken it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own mind  the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr W being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W have  suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs W were given about the cost and benefit was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been.  
Ref: DRN16152476Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
they wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  I note Mr W was in 
permanent employment.   And, as the PPI covered Mr W for unemployment only, he wasnt 
affected by any limitations or restrictions relating to pre-existing medical conditions. So, I still 
think they had some good reasons  to take the policy out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr W was made redundant.  In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs W found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN16152477Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude YBS should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave, in the way it did, was insufficient  
to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2006  when  
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN16152478Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1615247