K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage  by commissioning 
an inadequate survey  which  failed to highlight a problem  which  affected the propertys value. 
Mr P would like Nationwide  to write-off an appropriate amount of the mortgage  balance as 
compensation.
background
Mr P bought a flat with a Nationwide mortgage  in 2016. Nationwide  got a valuation which 
failed to indicate that this was a flat in a block where  the majority  of the apartments are 
serviced apartments. Mr P moved  to another city and has had difficulty  selling the property 
or remortgaging it for this reason. Mr P believes  that if this had been highlighted to 
Nationwide at the start by its surveyor that he would  not be in this situation.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Nationwide hadnt  done anything wrong and acted on the advice of a qualified valuer. Mr P 
says that the valuer was negligent  and Nationwide should compensate him for his loss and it 
could then sue the valuer for negligence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P wanted  to buy this apartment in 2016 for £265,000 and applied  to Nationwide.  To 
assess whether it would lend money on the security  of the property, Nationwide engaged a 
surveyor who was a member of a professionally recognised body. The valuer  provided a 
report dated 1 April 2016 and valued  the property at £265,000. There  is a Question 9 on the 
Report which invites the valuer to comment on other matters that might  materially  affect 
marketability. The valuer leaves that blank because he considers  that the property is 
readily saleable  at or about the valuation figure.
But Mr P has recently found that the flat isnt readily  saleable or mortgageable.  I have looked  
at a more recent valuation  report for Mr P prepared on 11 September 2018. The valuer in 
fact doesnt provide a valuation. The report says that there  are 68 flats in the block and the 
majority are rented as serviced  apartments which it says is likely to have a detrimental effect 
on marketability for owner occupation and indeed on the buy to let market. So the valuer  
didnt consider the property as suitable  security for mortgage purposes.  Mr P says that there 
were a lot of serviced  apartments in the block in 2016 also.
Nationwide says that if it knew in 2016  about the predominance of serviced apartments, it 
wouldnt have made a loan to Mr P. The question I have to answer is whether Nationwide did 
anything wrong  in 2016. Its not as Mr P suggests to look at whether he has done  anything 
wrong. I appreciate  that having  bought the property Mr P seems  to be in a very difficult  
situation but my role is to decide whether the business did anything  wrong and only if it did, 
whether any compensation should be paid.
The decision  to buy the property was Mr Ps. Nationwide got a valuation but that was for its 
own purposes and not for Mr Ps. I understand that indeed Mr P may not have seen it. At the 
Ref: DRN16754872bottom it says that This report  has been prepared solely for the Societys purposes and 
The Society does not guarantee  that the purchase  price is reasonable  But I also cant say 
that Nationwide has done anything wrong. It instructed a qualified  valuer to do a valuation 
and that valuer  found that the property was readily saleable at or about the valuation figure. 
Although that opinion  appears to be incorrect, its the opinion  of the independent  valuer and 
not Nationwides. Based on that opinion, it was reasonable for Nationwide  to have gone 
ahead and lent Mr P money  to assist him to buy the property.
Mr P has brought to my attention a decision of ours where the ombudsman  found against a 
lender because of an issue in a survey report.  That case involved a lender which had a 
policy against lending  on the security of a property of a Precast Reinforced Concrete 
Construction. In that complaint, although  the lender was aware  from the valuation that the 
property was of this type of construction, it went ahead in any case  and lent money. The 
seller had difficulty selling the property and our ombudsman found for the borrower, although 
not for the full amount claimed.
In that case the lender had breached its own lending guidelines after being alerted  to the 
issue in the valuation report. But in Mr Ps case the valuer  hadnt  alerted Nationwide to the 
problem and so Nationwide  didnt lend the money knowing that there  was going to be an 
issue when the property came to be sold.  Although I have great sympathy for Mr P, I cant 
fairly say that Nationwide has done  anything wrong  and so I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1675487