K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained to Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) about a loan they 
say was mis-sold to them in 2017.  
background
In 2015 Mr and Mrs H were sold a solar panel  system which  was funded  by a 10-year loan 
with a third party lender.   The system  wasnt performing as they had been led to believe, and 
so the energy savings werent covering the cost of the loan. 
In 2017 they were contacted by a company called Thermo Magic  Ltd (Thermo  Magic) that 
introduced itself as having taken over from the previous solar panel supplier.  It sent 
someone out to their home who then sold them a Multiplus Unit as an add-on to improve  
the performance of their existing system.
Mr and Mrs H have explained that Thermo Magic  arranged  a new 10-year  loan with Tesco  
which was used to repay  the existing 2015 loan and also pay for the Multiplus Unit.  When it 
became apparent to Mr and Mrs H that the additional unit hadnt improved the solar panel 
systems performance,  and that by spreading the cost over a longer term theyd be paying  
more interest, they complained to Tesco.
Tesco didnt  uphold  the complaint and explained  it had no relationship  with Thermo Magic.  It 
said the loan application was processed  online as though it had been  submitted by 
Mr and Mrs H directly, and it confirmed  the funds had been transferred directly to their bank 
account.
Unhappy with Tescos  response, Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this Service.   They 
explained that theyd already complained to the original lender about the initial solar panel 
system purchase under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75).  But  they also 
believe Tesco is responsible for the mis-sale  of the second loan, and should  have better  
systems in place to track the fact it was brokered  by Thermo Magic.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but concluded it should not be upheld.   In 
summary, she said Tesco did not know about and is not responsible for the actions of 
Thermo Magic, and explained  that s.75 did not apply in this case.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the investigators assessment.  They reiterated that a 
representative from Thermo Magic completed  the loan application completely and had 
coerced them into providing the personal  details to do so.  They explained that they would 
never have  used Tesco for a personal loan given a choice, and said Tesco had failed to 
protect them by not having systems  in place to record that the application was submitted by 
a third party.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to carry out a fresh review and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN13920822Firstly, I should acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H appear to have been let down on more  than 
one occasion.   Thermo Magic was not a financially regulated business, and no longer exists.  
It sold Mr and Mrs H the Multiplus Unit and compounded  the financial issues  they faced  by 
applying for the loan which increased their borrowing  over a longer term.
But I must be clear that in this complaint Im only able to consider the responsibilities  and 
actions of Tesco, and decide what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  Tesco  is not 
responsible for the actions of Thermo  Plus, but it does have obligations towards 
Mr and Mrs H as it customers.
The two key issues for me decide  are:
whether Tesco treated  Mr and Mrs H unfairly  by accepting the loan application and 
providing funds, and 
whether they can claim  under s.75 for any misrepresentations or breaches of 
contract made by Thermo Magic.
loan application  and acceptance
Mr and Mrs Hs loan was submitted to Tesco by Thermo Magic using an online application 
form.  This  was not a special system available to credit brokers,  but the same form that 
Mr and Mrs H could have directly completed  themselves on Tescos website.
The information necessary for Thermo Magic to complete the application was provided by 
Mr and Mrs H.  I understand they were  not aware  exactly how the application was being 
made, and may have  been misled, but I cannot hold Tesco accountable for that.
Tesco received  the application online as though it was submitted by Mr and Mrs H directly  
and so processed it on that basis.  The  documentation was sent directly  to Mr and Mrs H to 
accept the loan, and once  the loan funds were  released they were transferred  directly to 
Mr and Mrs Hs bank account.   So Ive seen nothing to suggest Tesco was aware of Thermo 
Magics involvement, and Im satisfied  it carried out usual checks and acted reasonably.
I note Mr and Mrs H have said if paper forms were used to submit the application, or if Tesco 
used different online systems it would have detected that the application was made by a 
broker.  But I disagree.
Tesco would have  only been aware of the existence of a broker  if Thermo  Magic had put 
forward those details.   But instead, it had sufficient information to complete  the application 
on behalf of Mr and Mrs H, in the same  way that anyone could have helped them fill out the 
application. Whilst it may be the case that Thermo Magic had not been transparent about the 
process, Mr and Mrs H were aware that it was apply for a loan for them, and thats not 
something I can reasonably hold Tesco  to account  for.
s.75 claim
In some circumstances,  where  a purchase is made using credit  (such as a credit card or 
loan), the lender can be responsible to the same  extent as the supplier  of the goods.  It 
seems thats the basis of the claim Mr and Mrs H have made about the sale of the original 
solar panel  system against the original  lender  of the 2015 loan.  But that isnt the case here.
Ref: DRN13920823In order for s.75 to apply, there must  be a direct  relationship between the three parties  
involved (the debtor,  the creditor and the supplier).  In this case  there  was no direct  
relationship between Tesco (creditor) and Thermo Magic (supplier).
Tesco would have  needed to make the payment directly to Thermo  Magic as the supplier of 
the goods.  But instead, the loan paperwork was accepted  by Mr and Mrs H (with no formal 
involvement by Thermo Magic), and the loan proceeds were then paid directly  into their bank 
account.  Those monies were then used to clear the existing 2015 loan, and for 
Mr and Mrs H to make a payment to Thermo Magic for the purchase of the Multiplus  Unit.  
However, technically the loan proceeds  were available  for them  to use as they wished, and 
they didnt have to use those funds  to pay Thermo Magic.
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration with what has happened,  and I realise they are likely 
to be disappointed with my decision.   But I hope  they understand that I can only uphold a 
complaint against  Tesco  where  I consider it has done something  wrong.   And whilst I can 
see they have  been let down, I dont think thats because of the actions of Tesco.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Tesco  Personal  
Finance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1392082