K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) charged him a fee without good  
reason. 
background
Mr W has a Tesco credit card. His 3 July 2018  statement showed that interest  and spending 
in the month  had taken him over his credit limit so hed been charged a £12 over-limit fee. 
He was still over the limit at the end of the statement  period. 
Mr W made a payment to his credit card on 20 July that was above  the minimum repayment  
amount given on the statement.  When his next statement was produced on 3 August, hed 
spent on the card and interest had been applied on the balance. Hed also been  charged 
another £12 over-limit  fee, so taking all these things  together his closing balance that month 
was again over his credit  limit but by less than the amount of the fee. 
Mr W didnt agree hed breached his limit and contacted  Tesco to ask why hed been 
charged again. He says Tesco gave  him three different answers  and none of them  made 
sense to him. One Tesco staff member mentioned a grace period but this was the first time 
hed heard one mentioned. He brought his complaint  to our service  for an independent view.
Tesco argue  that the applicable terms and conditions say a £12 over-limit fee will be charged 
whenever a customers  balance goes above  the limit, and each month until it comes  back  
below the limit. The terms also say that any over-limit must be repaid immediately, but Mr W 
didnt make a payment  until the 20 July. It says the fees were applied correctly.  
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ws complaint. Tesco disagreed because  it said it was entitled to 
charge the fee under  the account terms and conditions - and asked for an ombudsman  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W hasnt disputed the £12 fee he was charged in July 2018, so I havent  commented on 
this except where it affects  the following month. 
I see that the Tesco terms and conditions that apply here say that any over-limit amount 
must be repaid  immediately. Mr W went over the limit on 3 July and his payment was 
received 17 days later on 20 July, so I understand why Tesco  says it was entitled to charge  
the fee based on the terms and conditions.  
However, Ive considered  everything carefully  and in these particular circumstances I dont  
think its reasonable to charge Mr W a second over-limit fee here despite what  the terms and 
conditions say. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN14651332Mr Ws July statement said that he needed to make at least the minimum repayment  amount 
before his payment due date of 23 July 2018. And the separate letter  Tesco sent him about 
his default fee in July said the fee needed to be settled before his next payment due date. 
So although  the terms and conditions explain the need to address the over-limit immediately,  
and the July statement also said another payment might be needed for this reason, in the 
circumstances I can see why Mr W might not have realised he needed to make another  
immediate - payment  to avoid a second  fee.
I say this because  Mr W made a payment on 20 July  before his payment due date - that 
was enough to meet his minimum repayment  including the default fee. And I see that in the 
few months before and after July 2018, Mr W usually made a monthly payment that was the 
minimum repayment amount rounded up to the nearest ten pounds  or so  as he did here. 
Because Im satisfied  that Mr W generally  took efforts to keep his account  in good order, I 
think he thought  hed done what he needed  to do here  because hed been given unclear 
information by Tesco. I think  the mistake happened because the information from Tesco was 
unclear, so I uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
Because Im persuaded that Mr W intended to meet Tescos requirements when he arranged 
the payment,  but the information he received from Tesco made  it very difficult  for him to do 
so, I think in the circumstances here he shouldnt be charged the second over-limit fee on 
this occasion.  
I have considered whether Tesco also needs to compensate Mr W for trouble and upset he 
experienced. But I think that although  there was some back and forth between Mr W and 
Tesco, I dont think it acted in a manner that means an award for distress  and inconvenience  
is appropriate here. For that reason  Im not asking  it to compensate Mr W further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I order  Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
rework the account  as if the second  £12 over-limit fee hadnt been  charged,  including to 
remove any reference to it on his credit file and any other  adverse information  it may have 
registered on his credit file in relation  to this fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1465133