K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about problems hes experienced with a car he acquired  with finance from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VFS).
background
Mr F says he began experiencing  problems with the car soon after he acquired it in 
September 2017. He says he took it back to the supplying dealership  on a number of 
occasions between  October 2017  and May 2018. And he says the engine  cut out for no 
apparent reason in July 2018  and the car wasnt used again until it was serviced in 
September 2018.
So, Mr F says the car isnt of satisfactory  quality and he wants to reject it and end his finance  
agreement. Or, alternatively  to receive  a reduction  in the amount  of finance outstanding 
equivalent to one years worth  of payments under his agreement.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Fs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions.  And he gave us invoices he said proved 
the car had problems  when it was supplied to him.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
VFS supplied Mr Fs car under a finance agreement, so it was responsible for ensuring the 
car was of satisfactory quality at that time.  
I see the supplying  dealership repaired a number of issues  Mr F reported to it between 
October 2017 and May 2018,  but I also see much of this work was apparently  undertaken as 
a gesture of goodwill  to maintain a good relationship.
I also see there was an issue with an oil seal that required replacement,  but I see Mr F 
accepted the repair  of this fault,  as he also appears to have accepted the various  other 
repair work the dealership agreed  to carry out.
I havent seen  an expert  report addressing why the engine cut out in July 2018 and without 
this information  I cant  conclude it was the result of a fault that existed when Mr F acquired  
the car around  10 months  earlier. Im also not aware  of Mr F experiencing any further issues 
with it since September  2018.
So, from what Ive seen  any issues that involved unsatisfactory  quality  were  repaired by the 
supplying dealership with Mr Fs agreement when  he reported them.  And, in these  
circumstances, I dont  think  it would  be fair for me to require  VFS to take the car back and 
end the finance agreement at this stage or to make any refund of payments to Mr F.
Ref: DRN17367272So, for these reasons  I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold Mr Fs complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019. 
              
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1736727