K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains abut the recovery action  taken by The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd 
(TCFC) following problems concerning a hire purchase agreement for car. Mr P says 
TCFCs actions were  attempts  to intimidate and harass him. 
background
In August  2014  Mr P entered into a hire purchase  agreement for a car with TCFC. During  the 
agreement Mr P had some difficulties with the payments. This resulted in a notice  to 
terminate the agreement being  sent to Mr P in July 2018.
When Mr P received the notice he contacted TCFC  by phone  and he was advised  he 
needed to pay the full balance to keep the car. Mr P said that he wouldnt be willing to 
surrender the car voluntarily and the company would need  to take him to court. The account  
was duly terminated.
A few days  later a recovery  agent  acting on the instructions of TCFC visited Mr Ps home 
address. Mr P complained to TCFC about  the agents attendance.
TCFC didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.  Mr P complained to this service. He said hed been 
clear he wouldnt voluntarily surrender the car and that the agents intention  had been to 
harass him into surrendering the car and save TCFC the expense and trouble of taking him 
to court.
Our adjudicator said that TCFC hadnt sent the recovery agent to Mr Ps house  to repossess 
the car but to investigate whether the car was still at Mr Ps address and to see if an 
amicable resolution could be reached. Our adjudicator said he didnt think  this was 
unreasonable of TCFC as court proceedings could incur costs for both parties. And although 
he appreciated Mr P had said not to send  recovery agents to his home TCFC hadnt acted 
unfairly in doing  so.
Mr P disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said TCFC hadnt needed to come to his 
home to sight the car as that could have  been  achieved driving down the road. He said he 
had told the company not to send  recovery agents which it had ignored  and this could 
amount to harassment  and civil trespass.
Mr P also said that hed been  regularly dealing with TCFC so it shouldve  been clear he 
wouldnt negotiate with an unsolicited third party. He said the recovery  agent had only 
attended for one reason and that was to recover the vehicle.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr P was in contact with TCFC regarding the agreement.  And Ive seen that 
he was clear when  speaking on the phone  to TCFC that he wouldnt agree  to hand the car 
over and that court action would be necessary if TCFC wanted  to repossess the car.
Ref: DRN17099222Ive also seen that under the agreement, as Mr P had paid more than one third due under 
the agreement, that TCFC  couldnt take the court back without  Mr Ps agreement  unless it 
got a court  order.
So to allow it take back the car TCFC needed to apply for a Return of Goods Order. Ive 
seen that a recovery agent was sent out a few days after the agreement  was terminated. 
TCFC says that the agent went for two reasons, to see if the car was there and to see if 
contact could be made with Mr P as to whether he would agree to voluntarily sign over the 
car. I understand there  was no contact between the recovery agent  and Mr P.
While I can appreciate Mr P strongly feels that these were intimidatory tactics by TCFC  I 
dont agree. Court proceedings  inevitably incur  costs for the parties involved. So I think  its 
reasonable for TCFC  to see if an amicable solution  could be reached despite Mr P giving a 
contrary view over the phone. I dont  think  its unreasonable to take account  of the fact that 
parties involved in potential litigation can and do change their minds.  Ive seen that after Mr 
P complained about the agents visit no further  visits have been arranged  or undertaken. I 
dont think this visit by the recovery agent  was excessive in the circumstances.
Its also reasonable for TCFC to investigate where the car was and one way was to see if the 
car was at Mr Ps home by doing a sighting visit. And although it may be possible to do this 
by driving past this isnt always going  to be possible  depending where  the car is kept. So a 
visit to the property would be required.  I also think that to combine this sighting visit with a 
visit to discuss whether Mr P would  voluntarily surrender the car is a reasonable action to 
take. 
Ive no evidence that the recovery  agent  took any action to repossess the car or acted 
illegally during  their visit to Mr P. TCFC says the agent called once and left. The agent didnt 
see the car or Mr P.  So looking at the evidence in this case Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1709922