K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Mrs and Mr Ms comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mrs and Mr M have  said they werent aware  the PPI was optional. However it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  they werent given  a choice about the PPI, unless there was 
reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong,  fairness  requires that the person making the 
allegation should present  evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone  to prove they didnt do something  wrong, especially when it was such  a 
long time ago. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say Mrs and Mr M werent given a 
choice.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs and Mr M, and this means it had a higher standard 
to reach  during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Ms particular  circumstances. But it looks to me as though  any recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what evidence I have of Mrs and Mr Ms likely  
situation at the time. Its likely Mrs and Mr M were eligible for the policy. And finding yourself 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same  time as Mrs and Mr M received  any employer sick pay, and potentially  
for longer. It would have paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. And 
it would  have put off the time when  they would need  to fall back  on any savings or other 
means they may have had for paying the mortgage. This all would have put Mrs and Mr M in 
a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness  or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out. So I think the PPI would  have been  potentially useful, and so a 
recommendation was suitable. 
 
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about  the costs  would  have affected  whether 
Mrs and Mr M took the PPI.
Ref: DRN13944022Its possible Santander didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr M would  have  been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying  for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1394402