K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr S says Northern  Bank Limited  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make Mr S aware  the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. Mr S has told us he was led to believe his credit card application 
wouldnt be agreed unless  he took the PPI. I dont know  for certain  what  was said at the time 
Mr S applied for his card and PPI but Northern Bank has provided a copy of the available  
paperwork. The application form Mr S completed  when  he applied for his credit card had a 
separate section  for PPI that has been  ticked to take the policy. The form has also been 
signed by Mr S in agreement with the selections  that were  made.  The option to take PPI 
read yes I wish to take advantage of payment protection plan and didnt have to be selected 
to continue with the application.  With his in mind I think Northern Bank made it clear that 
Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr S has told us he was entitled  to generous sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mr Ss sick pay and for longer than he would have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because Northern  Bank didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN15544912Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about being  pressured 
into taking the policy. But pressure can be subjective, so I would need to see sufficient 
evidence of this to uphold Mr Ss complaint  for this reason,  which I havent seen. So these 
points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back  to Mr S any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr S the difference 
between what Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Mr S 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1554491