K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about Southern Rock Insurance Companys handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Southern  Rock includes their agents.
background
On 19 September  2018, Mr Ts car suffered  damage  during  a minor accident. He claimed  on 
his policy  with Southern Rock and they arranged for it to be repaired by one of their 
approved repairers  (AR).
Mr T gave  his car to the AR on 8 October  and collected it on 16 October once  he was told it 
had been repaired. Mr T said he later noticed  that the repair  hadnt  been done to a good 
standard and that there were two scratches, one to the rear bumper  and one to the front left 
wing, that happened after he gave his car to the AR. Southern Rock said the two scratches 
were pre-existing  and present when  Mr T brought his car to the ARs garage.
Southern Rock asked an independent engineer to assess  the car. The engineer agreed that 
the accident related damage  hadnt  been done to the expected standard. He therefore 
recommended remedial work. As for the two scratches, he confirmed they were indeed  
scratches but said he couldnt  comment  on when  or by whom  they were  caused.
On Mr Ts request  the remedial work was done  by another one of Southern Rocks ARs. 
Although Southern Rock said the scratch to the front left wing was pre-existing,  that too was 
repaired. But the scratch to the rear bumper wasnt repaired. Mr T complained  but Southern 
Rock didnt uphold  it. Mr T brought his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators 
looked into it. She felt that Southern Rock had dealt with Mr T fairly. As Mr T didnt agree 
with our adjudicator,  the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 15 May 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
The only outstanding issue is the scratch to the rear left hand side bumper so I will 
only focus on that. In deciding  the scratch was pre-existing Southern Rock relied 
heavily on the car check  in form. I know Mr T objects to it being called that as he 
doesnt feel it should be valid as it has a number  of defects, most  importantly that he 
was never  shown it nor was he asked to sign it. But I will refer to it as that as both 
parties know what it is. The check in form recorded:  scratchs [sic] to rear bumper  + 
N/S/F wing N/S/F  means near side front.  At the bottom of that form are two boxes 
headed Checked by. Both boxes have a hand written signature  and the date is 
hand written as 8 October 2018,  the date Mr T dropped the car off at the AR.
In their final response letter to Mr T dated 5 December 2018,  Southern  Rock  said he 
had signed the check in form thereby acknowledging the scratches were pre-existing. 
And in an email to our service dated 1 May 2019, in which Southern Rock 
summarised the history  of the complaint, they told us that Mr T had signed the check 
in form thereby confirming  the scratches were  pre-existing. But Mr T has said all 
Ref: DRN18816782along that he didnt sign that form. He said he wasnt shown  around  the car when he 
dropped it off; the AR didnt  identify  any pre-existing damage;  he wasnt  shown the 
check in form; and he wasnt asked  to sign it. Mr T said that form only materialised 
after he complained  about the scratches  and after the independent  engineers 
assessment report dated 25 October 2018.  Mr T said its possible the form was 
completed after the AR was made  aware  of his complaint that they had caused the 
scratches.
I have seen Mr Ts signature on the separate collection note dated 16 October 2018  
when he collected  his car and also on the complaint form he submitted  to our service.  
His signature bears no resemblance to the signature on the check  in form. And I note 
that despite Southern  Rock saying he signed  it, there has been no evidence from the 
AR to say that he did. I therefore accept on balance  that he didnt sign the check  in 
form.
Mr T said that two days after the accident, on 21 September 2018, he took some 
photos of his car. There is one photo of the rear of the car. Mr T said there  is no 
scratch visible on the bumper in that photo.  I have seen that photo and agree that no 
scratch is visible. He said the car remained parked on a drive until he took it to the 
AR on 8 October. He therefore says the rear bumper wasnt  scratched when  he 
dropped it off at the AR sometime in the morning just before 9am. Southern  Rock  
have also provided  me with a number of photos taken by the AR when they received 
the car on 8 October.  The relevant photo  showing the rear of the car is timed at 
16.35, over seven hours after Mr T dropped off the car. In the ARs photo  the scratch 
to the rear bumper can clearly  be seen. Mr T feels this is proof that the scratch  
happened while his car was with the AR.
I agree  with Mr T that it is possible that his car was scratched  after he gave it to the 
AR. But I think theres also a possibility  that the scratch happened sometime after Mr 
T took the photo on 21 September and before he dropped it off at the AR. Although  I 
note Mr T is adamant that didnt happen.
But in considering what I think was likely to have happened Ive considered all the 
circumstances and evidence available to me. Mr T said that his car did have pre-
existing damage  on a number of areas on his car. But those  werent noted on the 
check in form. He has said that if the AR completed the check in form with the 
intention of recording all the pre-existing  damage then he would have expected them  
to record the other damage, but they didnt they only recorded  the scratches Mr T 
later complained about. I also think that a car of that age is likely  to have some wear  
in the form of minor  dents, scuffs and scratches.  And - while  Im not minimalizing the 
damage, the scratch Mr T has complained  about  is minor. Yet he has taken issue  
with that and not any other pre-existing damage he accepts  was present.
But turning  back  to the check in form. Both the AR and Southern  Rock  have relied on 
that form as important evidence to show the scratch was pre-existing. That suggests 
that form was meant to be used to record important information, including  all pre-
existing damage  to the car. And I think its intention was to avoid the exact situation 
Mr T and Southern Rock  have found  themselves in. But Im convinced  on the 
evidence available  to me that the check in form wasnt completed with Mr T when he 
dropped off the car. Because  if it was it would have been signed by him but it wasnt.  
And the photo  taken by the AR was over seven hours after the car was dropped off. 
And it was possible the scratch  happened  while it was there.  Given  the check in 
Ref: DRN18816783process wasnt dealt with reasonably I think the benefit of the doubt should be given 
to Mr T. I therefore intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to require Southern Rock 
to do one of the following:  (1) arrange for the scratch to the rear bumper to be 
repaired by one of their approved repairers;  or (2) pay Mr T the cost of having the 
scratch repaired by his own garage. Southern Rock can ask Mr T to provide one or 
more estimates and Southern Rock will only be expected  to pay what  they consider 
to be reasonable.  Often Southern Rock will ask one of their own engineers  to 
consider the estimate(s) provided by Mr T to consider whether its reasonable. And 
as this matter has been  ongoing for almost  a year and a half and Mr T has spent a 
considerable amount of time dealing with it I think its been a source  of distress and 
inconvenience to him. To address that I intend to require Southern Rock to pay him 
£200 compensation.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr T accepted my provisional decision. 
Southern Rock didnt comment.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given Mr T accepted  
my provisional decision and Southern Rock didnt comment, my decision remains  the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Southern  Rock  Insurance 
Company to pay:
EITHER (1) arrange for the scratch to the rear bumper to be repaired by one of their 
approved repairers; OR (2) pay Mr T the reasonable cost of having the scratch  
repaired by his own garage.
Pay Mr T £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr T has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Southern  Rock consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr T how much  they have taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1881678