K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1995 on 
both a Visa card and a MasterCard. Mr P says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, mis-sold  him PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain  why.
Mr P says he wasnt aware PPI was optional and it was added  without his knowledge or 
consent. But based on the evidence  Ive seen I think Barclays made it clear that Mr P didnt  
have to take out PPI and he chose to take out this cover  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this. I say this because Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ps credit card application 
form. This included a section for PPI with both a yes and no option for the cover. The yes 
option has been ticked and Mr P signed  the form, agreeing for PPI to be added  to both his 
Visa card and MasterCard.  So I think this reflected what he wanted at the time. 
Mr P says Barclays  didnt recommend PPI to him. Barclays says it thinks that it did. As 
things stand, there isnt enough information to determine  this point. But being  able to do so 
isnt crucial to the outcome because, had Barclays recommended  the cover, I think  it 
wouldve been a suitable recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. As 
a result,  Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as Barclays.
As a recommended  sale Barclays had to check that PPI was right for Mr P  and based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the cover.  Ive also considered what Mr P 
has said about not having any sick pay or savings at the time.  So I think the cover  was 
suitable and I think it wouldve  been useful for him had he needed  to make a claim.  
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about  PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. So I dont think  better 
information about PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mr P. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Mr P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN19655742PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the cover  to Mr P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1965574