K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Nationwide Building  Society  wont refund a cash withdrawal from her 
account that she says she didnt make.
background
Miss W was abroad and went into a shop  to buy a bottle of water on 25 April 2018. She 
couldnt pay with her card so she says tried to take out 10 Euros from a cash machine in the 
shop. Her card got stuck in the machine and she asked shop staff to help her. She says that 
they fiddled  with the buttons on the machine and managed to get her card back.  She left 
without buying  anything.  But she later saw that 300 Euros  had been debited to her account 
as a cash withdrawal  and disputed this.
Nationwide originally credited this money  to her account while it investigated what 
happened. But it then said that it received  information from the cash machine owner showing 
the entries from that day. And that 300 Euros had been dispensed when Miss Ws card had 
been used in the machine  and the correct PIN entered. In addition,  she hadnt  reported what 
happened to police. So it re-debited her account and said it had told her this would happen  
within seven days of the date of its letter. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:-
-Shed  seen the journal roll for this machine which showed that the correct  PIN for the 
card had been entered, a withdrawal of 300 Euros been requested and the cash 
dispensed. There was no request  for 10 Euros recorded.
-There were  no errors showing with the machine  so she didnt think she could say that 
Miss W had requested 10 Euros and then either  no money came out or that the 
higher amount of 300 Euros was dispensed and kept by staff.
-She also didnt think  it likely  that staff were  able to re-insert  her card having  found out 
the PIN, and taken  money out - all without Miss W noticing.
-Nationwide had provided sufficient notice before it re-debited  the account and Miss 
W had confirmed shed  received  its letter three days before the money was taken 
back.
Miss W didnt agree  and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she didnt take 
the Euros and if she had would not have gone  to these  lengths to complain. She was 
unhappy to be considered  a thief when she thought someone abroad  had taken  her money.  
She didnt  think wed looked at this independently.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised  
Miss W wouldnt generally be responsible  for it
Ref: DRN11490502Our investigator set out for Miss W the key entries relating to this transaction  shown on the 
journal roll for the cash machine. There is no evidence that 10 Euros was ever requested by 
her. The correct PIN for Miss Ws card was input. Theres  no explanation for how someone 
else would  have found that out. And also for how that person would then have  been  able to 
use her card to take out money  from the machine without her knowing during a different 
transaction. And if as Miss W says it was a member of shop staff that had done this then I 
think there would  have been  a particular risk that Miss W would  identify them to the 
authorities. I note Miss W says she received her card back and there  were  no other 
transactions she disputed from the time she was abroad.
The journal  roll records her correct PIN being entered into the machine at 08:54:21 (hours: 
minutes: seconds).  And the request  for 300 Euros came as part of the same  series of entries 
at 08:55:44. There  is a short gap between these times and I note thats consistent with    
Miss W having  difficulty using the machine as she says. But beyond that theres no evidence 
to support what she says about someone  else using  her card without her authority, or even 
helping her with the machine. She was present for the rest of the transaction and was 
reasonably responsible for what was entered  into the machine - even if she allowed 
someone else to do so on her behalf. She waited  for her card to come back. And the cash  
was dispensed  within 10 seconds of that. To the extent she had been expecting say 10 
Euros, as she says, then I think shed have been  waiting for this to come  out of the machine. 
And she wouldnt likely have left that quickly without checking.
Ive considered what Miss W has said. And Ive noted, for example,  that she did take out 
smaller amounts of cash with her card abroad  in the days before and after this transaction. I 
also know that she says she didnt notice this transaction until she got home  and so didnt 
report it to local police.  But, even  accepting all that, I still cant see any reasonable basis for 
her not being  responsible for the withdrawal.  It was authenticated  with her card details. And 
taking into account  what Ive already said, I think its most likely she consented to the 
withdrawal at the time. I dont rule out the possibility  that she was in some way distracted  
when the cash  was dispensed  by the machine. But thats not her account of what  happened 
and in any event  would  not Im afraid  mean that Nationwide was responsible for any loss to 
her. That would be down to the unknown person who distracted her at that time.
So Im not in a position to require Nationwide to do anything further. And I agree  with our 
investigator that it gave  her reasonable notice about  when her account was going to be re-
debited with this money  even  when unfortunately this contributed to an overdraft balance  on 
her account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1149050