K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that his mobile phone insurance might only provide him with a refurbished 
phone rather than a new phone in the event of a claim. The mobile  phone  insurance policy  is 
provided by Telefonica  Insurance  S.A.
background
Once Mr S became aware that if he needed  to claim under this policy he might not get a new 
phone he complained to Telefonica. He asked for a full refund of his premiums  as he said he 
never wouldve taken  out the policy in the first place. Mr S felt the mobile phone insurance  
had been mis-sold to him. Telefonica didnt say that Mr S would definitely get a refurbished  
phone rather than a new one. But it did say whatever Mr S was given would be of a high 
standard. Mr S didnt  accept this and brought  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the terms and conditions  of the policy  
were clear. It said any replacement might be remanufactured, refurbished, repackaged or 
new. Based  on this being the only evidence presented she didnt  think  Telefonica had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Mr S didnt  accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed  to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator pointed  out that the evidence is limited. Mr S has sent in further details and 
said his latest  written testimony  is evidence. Mr S has now said the salesperson discussed 
the insurance option and told him hed get a new replacement phone.  Mr S said that he 
wasnt told he could get a used phone that might no longer be on general sale. He said if 
hed known this he would  never  have  taken out the insurance. He said the crux of his 
complaint was that he never wouldve continued  paying  for insurance in such circumstances.
Ive taken this into account but I also have to note that during  the initial call to set up Mr S 
complaint he said that he wanted this service to get a copy  of the sales  call from when he 
bought the insurance. I think thats different to what  Mr S said at the start of his complaint. 
From the information Ive seen there  was no sales call. The details Ive been  provided with 
are from a sale that took place in a shop.
Telefonica confirmed  the phone  and insurance  were  bought  in store  by Mr S. The policy 
wording sets out that in the event  of a claim Telefonica has several options in relation  to the 
loss or damage of the phone:
(a) Repair your equipment; or
(b) Replace your equipment with a product  of the same or a similar specification, as 
determined by us. Replacement Equipment  might be a different colour or model from a 
different manufacturer. It may be new, re-furbished, re-manufactured or re-packaged by a 
repair centre approved  by us.
Firstly, I think the wording  is clear. I dont think theres any guarantee given that Mr S would 
definitely get a new phone. But theres also no certainty that he wouldnt. I think this is a 
Ref: DRN11315392fairly standard wording across the mobile  phone  insurance industry so this is the sort of 
cover Mr S wouldve got wherever he bought phone insurance from.
In the final response  letter  Telefonica  sent to Mr S it said:
our engineers are dedicated to ensuring  that the quality of our remanufactured stock is to 
the highest standard and will always provide  the same experience  as a brand-new  handset.  I 
hope you can understand the reason I am unable to uphold this aspect of your complaint or 
refund your premiums.
I think this was a reasonable answer  from Telefonica. Here it has addressed  Mr S specific 
point about him not wanting  a second hand phone if he claimed. So although I understand 
the points Mr S makes  I think  Telefonica  acted reasonably with the sale and the insurance 
policy. I think it acted fairly when it declined to refund Mr S premiums.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Telefonica Insurance S.A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1131539