K820x#14complaint
Mrs V complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) have  accepted  responsibility for the sale and by extension  this complaint.
So Ive only referred to FICL during  this decision.
background
Mrs V was sold PPI in connection with a store card in December 1996.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs V no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs V 
was off work  sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs V didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Vs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Vs complaint. I will go on to explain why.
Im satisfied Mrs V was eligible for the PPI based  on her age and circumstances at the time 
of the sale. 
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs V that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs Vs consent  
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs V says she wasnt aware PPI had been  added 
to her account. Of course  I cant know for sure what took place during the sale so Ive 
thought about what FICL  and Mrs V have  told us and have looked to the documents  from the 
time of the sale in order to help me decide  what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement.  This shows that PPI wouldnt have 
been applied  to Mrs Vs account unless she had specifically chosen  to take it out by ticking a 
box to take it. And the box to take PPI has been ticked  on the credit agreement.  Mrs V 
questions how we know that she is the one who ticked the box. As mentioned above, I cant 
know for sure what took place during  the sale. But I think its more likely that Mrs V did 
choose to take PPI, although I appreciate she can now no longer remember  this given the 
length of time since the sale. This is because  Mrs V also signed  the credit  agreement and I 
would have thought that if she didnt choose to take PPI by ticking  the box, or by authorising 
the representative to do so on her behalf, she would have questioned it at the point of 
signing the credit agreement particularly given other parts of the form have been crossed out 
and Mrs V hadnt selected other  available options.
Ref: DRN18870392So while I appreciate what Mrs V has told us, I think FICL made it clear to Mrs V that PPI 
was optional and it was only applied to her account because she agreed to take it out. 
From the information available  to me and what I know  of their sales  practice at the time, I 
dont think FICL advised Mrs V to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs V. So for example, they didnt have to ask 
about or take into account Mrs Vs existing  repayment provisions or consider whether Mrs V 
had any pre-existing medical conditions which could have made it difficult for her make a 
successful claim  under  the policy.
But FICL did have  to give Mrs V clear  information  so that she could make a proper choice  
about whether  or not to take the policy out. I cant say that FICL gave Mrs V all the 
information as they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy  or the main exclusions 
and restrictions. 
So I have  to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs V off taking the 
policy out. I dont  think it wouldve.  I say this because:
-Mrs V has told us she wasnt entitled  to sick pay from her employer. So the PPI 
would have provided a useful benefit  because it would have covered her repayments 
until she returned to work or her outstanding balance had been paid off. It would 
have provided  a similar  benefit  if Mrs V lost her job. Even  if Mrs V had been entitled 
to some employee benefits, the PPI would  have paid out in addition to these and 
likely for a longer  period of time.
-Mrs V didnt  appear to have  been  affected  by the more restrictive  terms in the policy  
which could have  made it difficult for her to make  a successful claim under the policy.  
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
-Mrs V couldve cancelled  the policy at any time without losing out financially if she 
thought she could no longer afford  it or no longer wanted it.
-I havent seen  any evidence to conclude that the PPI was unaffordable to Mrs V at 
the time of the sale.
Ive considered all the points  Mrs V has raised including  about the extent of PPI mis-selling. 
However, each case is decided on its own merits and in the particular  circumstances of this 
case I dont think FICL  mis-sold PPI to Mrs V.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Vs complaint against  Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs V to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Ref: DRN18870393Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1887039