K820x#14complaint
Ms H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when she applied  
for a Marks & Spencers card in 1990.
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  is now responsible for these sales  so Ill be referring to it 
throughout my decision. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  and said the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ms H 
disagreed with this and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs mis-sale complaint.
Ms H says she doesnt remember anything about the sale and was surprised to learn she 
even had PPI. Ive got no doubt she now honestly  and genuinely feels the PPI was mis-sold. 
But these  events are from over 29 years ago, so its obviously possible that Ms H just 
doesnt remember all the details of the sale. 
I say this because  Ive been sent a copy of the credit agreement Ms H signed when she 
made her application for the card.  I can see there was a section about PPI which was 
headed Payment  Protection. And within this section there was an option for Ms H to choose 
whether or not she wanted any PPI. 
The box to have the PPI was ticked and so I think this shows Ms H wanted to have the 
cover. If she didnt want the PPI she would have been able to leave the box empty.  She went  
on to also sign the application form so I think this shows Ms H would have been aware at the 
time that she had asked  for PPI and didnt need to buy it if she didnt want  to.
I also note from her monthly statements that Ms H was being  charged regularly for Payment 
Protection Insurance Premium. I think if shed  never  wanted the cover or had made a 
mistake in the application she would  have wanted to know what these payments were for.
Finally, I was sent an example copy of a letter that was sent out to policy-holders like Ms H 
in 2003. It contained information  about changes to the PPI terms and conditions.
So Im afraid  all this represents strong evidence that Ms H actually asked for the PPI and 
would have been able to see it had been set up on her account and was being charged.  I 
accept she probably  cant  remember  all this now after such  a long time.
I think her consent for the PPI was properly obtained.
From the documents Ive seen  I dont think this was an advised sale. I think the application 
form was filled out and sent off to be processed  without  Ms H being  given specific financial 
Ref: DRN11750192advice. This means  Allianzs duty was limited to providing her with enough information for 
her to decide for herself  whether or not she wanted  this type of cover.
Overall I think  Ms H had enough  information  on which to make an informed decision. The 
monthly cost of the policy was 64p per £100  of the outstanding card balance  and this was 
shown directly beside where Ms H was asked to make her choice. The form also referred to 
other information about the PPI cover  which was attached. 
I can see some ways  in which the form could  have been set out in a better way. But I dont 
think this would have  changed what Ms H went on to do. This is because I think  the 
evidence shows she wanted  this type of protection. She was also eligible for the PPI and not 
caught by any of the exclusions  we tend to see in these policies. 
Ms H told us about her family circumstances and that she already  enjoyed sickness 
protection with her job, implying she didnt really  need the PPI. I understand the points being 
made but Im afraid they dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use to her. In the event of 
a successful claim for example, the PPI could have paid off 15% of her outstanding card 
balance for up to 12 months.  In my experience this compares favourably to other PPI 
policies available  at the time. 
As a non-advised sale the decision about having PPI was for her to make.  I cant say why 
Ms H chose to buy the policy but I do think the evidence very strongly shows she was given 
a choice about buying the cover and would have known of its existence. 
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. And I dont direct Allianz 
Insurance Plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1175019