K820x#14complaint
Ms L feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation to some  
cosmetic goods and services she purchased from a salon.
background
In August  2018  Ms L entered  into a contract for some cosmetic  goods and services. These 
goods and services were  supplied  by a salon and paid for through  credit  provided by Etika. 
In October  2018 she entered  a similar arrangement but this time only for products all of 
which she received.  Both credit agreements were fixed sum loan agreements  to paid for 
over 25 monthly instalments. She signed  the agreements electronically through the salon. 
The August  agreement was for a total cost of £2800 (£2520 under the credit agreement  and 
£280 paid as a deposit) and the October  agreement  was for a total cost of £1950 (all on 
credit). 
The salon then unexpectedly closed, leaving Ms L without a number of the treatments shed 
paid for but Etika are still asking her to pay it back the money it loaned her. Ms L says shes  
disabled, a carer  and on benefits from the state.  She says she didnt get all the treatments 
she paid for and doesnt think  the salon treated her fairly.  She wants  to pay nothing more.
So she spoke to Etika who acknowledged  there  had been a breach of contract and originally 
offered her replacement treatments with another salon. It also offered her a refund on the 
August contract  but said she got all the products under the October contract, so shes  liable  
for the full amount  under  that credit agreement. Ms L doesnt  think  she should pay any more, 
so she complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and having  used a different redress calculation  came 
to a broadly similar  position to Etika  on the August contract. Etika has confirmed it will 
honour the position it originally offered Ms L. The Investigator also considered  Etikas  
position on the October contract and thought that was fair also.  Ms L contested this. So, this 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms L raised  her complaint  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  The general 
effect of Section 75 is that if Ms L has a claim for material misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim against  the 
credit provider (Etika here) provided  certain conditions are met. 
However it must be remembered that although this legislation places obligations  on Etika, it 
still is a different entity to the salon.  This is not a decision about  what the salon did or didnt 
do, as I cannot  decide on that as the salon isnt in existence anymore (or within  my remit). It 
is a decision regarding Etika and how it has acted.  I hope this key issue  is clear.
Ref: DRN19601732To gain protection under Section 75 there  are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there  has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think this transaction  falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There  also needs to 
be the required three-party contractual relationship-between debtor, creditor and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. This is made out here also.  
Bearing in mind Etika has acknowledged  that the course of treatments paid for by the August 
agreement hasnt been completed and thus a breach of contract has occurred, I need  to 
consider how this matter  should be resolved fairly  between the parties.
It is important  that this service not only tries to fulfil its duty to be fast, fair and impartial but 
also that it applies a consistent approach. In this instance  the Investigator has chosen to see 
the August  contract as being for sixteen  items  (which includes treatments, diagnostics and 
kits) and to treat them  equally. The investigator came  to this approach based on what  Ms L 
has told us and what we know  of the salons  working  practices. I consider this methodology 
to be fair and Etika accepted this approach. And broadly I think  it fair that Ms L pays for the 
goods and services she did receive and doesnt  pay for those that she didnt receive.
In this case the Investigators calculations with regarding  to how much of a price reduction 
Ms L should receive was broadly in line with Etikas  position  as it described in its Final  
Response Letter to Ms L, albeit Etikas method was slightly more favourable to Ms L. Etika 
has confirmed it is willing to honour  its position that Ms Ls total liability under the August 
contract was £315. I think this is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Etikas position regarding the October  agreement was that there were only products 
provided under the agreement (no services  or treatments) and Ms L took possession of all 
them at the time of entering the contract. As Ms L got everything she paid for then she was 
and is liable for the full amount under the credit agreement.
Ive considered what was agreed in the October agreement and also Ms Ls acceptance that 
she got all the products  sold in that agreement. I do not agree with Ms L that shes been 
treated unfairly  here. Accordingly she should  repay Etika what she owes under this 
agreement.
In short  Im not persuaded any part of this complaint  should  be successful. I think Etika has 
treated Ms L fairly with regard to these contracts  and accordingly it can seek  what  it is owed 
by Ms L under  the agreement.
Ms L has since said that she doesnt want  to pay and cannot pay. Etika has contacted  her 
with a view to agreeing  a repayment plan. Etika says Ms L made it a monthly  repayment  
offer which it feels it cannot accept  as it is significantly less than the monthly repayments 
under the agreement. Etika also say that Ms L refused to explain her income  and 
expenditure and to fully explore a reasonable repayment plan.
I appreciate that Ms L has described her disability, carers duties and change in 
circumstances. And these are all important considerations. But they dont mean that Etika 
shouldnt get back the money it loaned to Ms L to make these purchases.  Accordingly I 
suggest Ms L speaks  to Etika  in order to agree a way forward on this issue.  Otherwise Etika  
is entitled to pursue the debt. Etika has said it is mindful of its obligations with customers 
with such financial considerations. As such Ms L should describe in full her situation, 
challenges and income and expenditure to Etika so that she and Etika  can reach  a mutually 
agreeable solution.
Ref: DRN19601733Summary
In short,  Ive considered everything that Ms L has said. I appreciate how Ms L feels  about 
the whole  situation. I think Etikas  position with regard to these two contracts is fair and 
reasonable in these  particular circumstances. So I wont be asking it to do anything  more.
Once it has done what it has said it would be sensible to write to Ms L explaining  the 
situation and what Ms L has to repay.  Both Ms L and Etika should try to come to a mutually 
acceptable agreement  on repayment to bring finality to this matter.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Etika  Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1960173