K820x#14complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1994.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed  with the
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why. 
Mr M says he wasnt told anything  about PPI and it was added without his knowledge. FICL 
say it would have  made  it clear to Mr M that he didnt have to buy a PPI policy   and it would 
have got his consent before adding the cover to his account. Where theres a dispute about  
what happened, I have to base my decision on what I think  is most likely to have happened  
taking into account  all the evidence thats  available.
Because this policy was sold more than 20 years ago, neither party has been  able to give 
me any of the original  documents from when this policy was sold. But this isnt surprising or 
unusual  and I wouldnt expect FICL  to have kept this information for all that time.  
But because there isnt any point of sale information  available, Ive thought about what  I 
know of how FICL  normally presented PPI to its customers in these types of sales. And from 
what Ive seen previously,  it would have  normally made it clear that there was a choice in 
buying PPI and it would have normally got the customers consent before adding  the cover  
to their account. And I havent seen anything  to make me think FICL didnt follow  its normal  
process on this occasion.
Because this policy is likely to have been sold when Mr M took the card out in store;  I dont 
know what was said to Mr M about the PPI or how it was presented to him. But for me to be 
able to agree with what Mr M has said, I have to think it more  likely that someone at the 
store added the cover without Mr M knowing about  it  or it didnt give him a choice in taking 
it out. And although  I agree this is possible, I dont think  it more  likely.
So having  taken into account everything  Ive read and been told, I think its more  likely FICL 
made it clear  to Mr M he had a choice in taking PPI  and I think  he chose to take it.
Ref: DRN11634002I dont think FICL advised Mr M to take out the PPI. So it didnt have to check it was suitable 
for him. But it did need to make sure it gave Mr M enough information about the cover so he 
could decide for himself  if he wanted  to buy it.
I dont know exactly what information  Mr M received about the policy at the time of sale. But 
even if I accept he wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont  think this 
would have affected his decision to take out the PPI for the reasons Ive explained below.
Mr M was eligible for the policy and doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things which  may have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim  such  as a pre-
existing medical condition. He told us he was employed and in good health. Mr M says he 
would have got good sick pay if he was away from work due to illness.  But the policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to Mr Ms employment  benefits, so could have proved useful to him 
if he had an accident,  became  ill or lost his job. Mr M has also said he could have relied 
upon his parents financially. No doubt  this offer was kindly meant, but others  financial 
circumstances can change so this couldnt have  been guaranteed. 
As I dont know what was said to Mr M I cant know if FICL made the cost of the policy  clear  
enough for Mr M to understand  what the real cost of the policy  was for him. But taking  
everything into account, I think if Mr M had properly  understood  the cost and benefit 
provided he would have thought the policy potentially useful.
Overall, I cant be satisfied that FICL did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to 
Mr M. But I think he would have been aware he had a choice  about  taking the PPI and for 
the reasons given above, I think he would still have taken out the cover if hed been  properly 
informed about  it.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, but because of what  Ive said, these points dont 
change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019..
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1163400