K821x#15complaint
Mr G and Mrs A complain  that Santander  UK Plc recorded information  about them  on a fraud 
prevention database when they applied for a mortgage. They say it was wrong  to have  done  
so, and they want the information removed.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision, a copy of which is attached, and forms part of, this final decision. I also 
asked Mr G and Mrs A and Santander to let me have any final submissions they wanted  me 
to consider before making my final decision.
Mr G and Mrs A accepted my provisional decision,  but Santander did not. As well as 
repeating some of its earlier arguments, it made  some other comments  in confidence.  It still 
thought it was right to have recorded the entry against Mr G on the fraud prevention 
database.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision.
Santander has made some additional comments following my provisional  decision, but it 
hasnt provided  any evidence to support what it has said. I explained in my provisional 
decision that it had to have evidence which met a certain standard of proof in order to make 
the entries it did against Mr Gs and Mrs As names. Circumstantial evidence  or suspicions 
are not enough   and Santander has had the opportunity to ask Mr G and Mrs A to clarify 
anything it didnt understand  or had concerns about,  rather  than making assumptions, as 
well as to provide information  to this service. 
Ive given careful consideration to what Santander  has said and, in all the circumstances, I 
remain of the view that the fair outcome is for it to remove the entries it made against both 
Mr G and Mrs A, and pay them  compensation as set out below. 
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to:
-remove any entries it has made  against both Mr Gs and Mrs As names on fraud  
prevention databases  in respect  of their 2018  mortgage application;  and
-pay Mr G and Mrs A £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10872992copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr G and Mrs A complain  that Santander UK plc recorded information about them on a fraud 
prevention database when they applied  for a mortgage. They say it was wrong  to have done so, and 
they want  the information removed.
background 
In early 2018, Mr G and Mrs A applied  for a mortgage with Santander, through  a broker.  Santander 
turned down  their application. Mr G and Mrs A say they have since been  unable to open new 
accounts anywhere. They  then found out that Santander had recorded entries  about both of them  with 
a fraud prevention agency, saying  they had provided forged / invalid documents for their mortgage 
application.
 
Mr G and Mrs A thought there must have been a mistake, so they complained. Santander  said it 
hadnt been able to validate  the documents they had provided, and it wouldnt remove the entries.
Following our involvement, Santander agreed to remove the entry it had made  against Mrs As name. 
But it said the entry against Mr Gs name should stay in place.
Our investigator concluded that this was fair. She said Santander  had provided  information about the 
checks it had carried out before making  the entry, and this showed  it had reasonable grounds to make 
the entry.
Mr G and Mrs A asked for their case to be reviewed. They said another lender had removed similar 
entries after they found  Mr Gs employer had made a mistake with the information they had sent to 
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC). They  could see no reason  why Santander wouldnt do 
the same.  They also offered to provide any evidence  Santander might  want if it would fix the problem, 
and pointed  out that the entry against Mrs As name was still showing some months after Santander 
had said it would arrange  for it to be deleted.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
It was for Santander to decide for itself whether  or not it was prepared to agree to Mr Gs and Mrs As 
mortgage application, and it didnt  have  to give reasons for its decision.  However,  besides rejecting 
the application,  Santander  recorded entries about Mr G and Mrs A with a fraud prevention agency on 
the basis  that they provided  forged and/or invalid documents.
Lenders should have a very good reason to record this type of entry  on fraud prevention databases. 
The database Santander  used sets standards for its members. It requires a standard of proof to be 
met in order for an entry  to be made; that standard includes a requirement that the evidence  relied on 
be clear and rigorous, such that the member could  confidently report  the subjects  conduct to the 
police. 
Santander, in common with all mortgage lenders, will carry out standard underwriting checks  in 
considering an application.  Having considered its records, I can see thats what  Santander did in Mr 
Gs and Mrs As case and why it recorded the entries on the database. Santander then looked again 
at this matter following Mr Gs and Mrs As complaint, in the light of the extra information they 
provided. I think that was the right thing to do. Its review led it to say it would remove the entry  against 
Mrs As name.
Ref: DRN10872993However, I dont think that goes far enough. I think Santander should  remove the entry  against Mr Gs 
name as well. I dont find the evidence it had was strong  enough  bearing  in mind the standard  it was 
required to meet  to leave the entry in place. Circumstantial evidence  and/or suspicions are not 
enough.
In particular, I think its clear  from the documents Mr G and Mrs A provided when they made their 
complaint that there  was a mistake on the mortgage application with the start date of Mr Gs job. Two 
digits of the date were transposed, which  meant the month was wrong.  The correct date is confirmed 
in letters to Mr G from HMRC, which he provided  to Santander. This discrepancy  will have meant Mr 
Gs actual  income  for the year was different  from what  Santander expected.  But it doesnt mean  that 
the documents Mr G provided when he made the mortgage application were  either forged or invalid.
I also note that Santander  looked at the 2018/19 tax year in its latest  review of this matter. Mr G and 
Mrs A made their mortgage  application near the beginning of that year. So any change in their 
circumstances in 2018/19 isnt relevant to an assessment  of whether the entries  should  remain in 
place.  
In all the circumstances, while I think its understandable  that Santander had some concerns when it 
initially considered the mortgage application in 2018, I dont think  it has good enough  grounds now to 
refuse to remove the entries it made on the fraud prevention database.  
Ive noted what Mr G and Mrs A have said about the impact the entries and this whole matter has had 
on them. However, the entries alone shouldnt  have prevented them  from getting credit. The fraud 
prevention agency in question is clear with its members that applications  shouldnt automatically be 
refused just because an entry has been made with it. Lenders  should  carry out their own checks  and 
make their own decisions.
Nevertheless, I can see that Mr G and Mrs A have been put to some inconvenience and upset 
because the entries have remained in place for longer than necessary, and they have felt unable to 
move on with their lives. I think they should fairly  receive  £200 by way of compensation in recognition 
of that.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any more evidence or arguments I receive from the parties  by 3 
July  2020  is that I uphold this complaint.  I propose to require Santander UK plc to:
-remove any entries it has made against both Mr Gs and Mrs As names  on fraud prevention 
databases in respect of their 2018  mortgage application; and
-pay Mr G and Mrs A £200 compensation.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1087299