K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited  wrongly allowed a motor  
insurance policy for one of their cars to lapse, leaving them uninsured  for several days.
background
Mr and Mrs G insured  two cars through  Hastings. Policy A, for their first car, was due to 
renew on 19 September 2018. Mr G called Hastings and said hed insured the car 
elsewhere. Hastings  said it would send an email confirming that policy  A would lapse  at 
renewal. Hastings said it sent that email on 4 September  2018. Mr and Mrs G said they 
didnt get it, but they got a renewal reminder for policy  A dated 5 September  2018. Hastings 
said that was generated automatically, and policy As lapse had been actioned  as requested. 
In reply to the renewal  reminder, Mr G sent Hastings an email (without a policy  number on it) 
saying he didnt want the policy to be renewed. In his email, he said hed spent 25 minutes  
on the phone to Hastings previously to arrange  that. Hastings asked him for more  details, 
such as the cars registration or the policy number. Mr G didnt provide any more details. 
Hastings advisor searched its system and noted it had already confirmed that policy  A 
wouldnt be renewed. So the advisor assumed Mr G was referring to policy  B.  
Hastings emailed Mr G again on 7 September 2018, citing  policy  Bs reference  number and 
asking if any changes  were needed to it before the renewal date. Mr G replied to say the 
policy wasnt to be renewed. Hastings sent another  email  on 9 September 2018, again using 
the reference number for policy B. It said policy B would lapse at renewal in October 2018. 
Mr and Mrs G say they didnt get the email. But they did then receive  a renewal invitation for 
policy B (generated automatically) so they thought  all was in order.  Mr G only found policy B 
had lapsed when he called Hastings on 10 October 2018 to chase the policy documents.
Our investigator thought the confusion  that caused policy B to lapse could have been 
avoided if Mr G had given  Hastings  the details it asked for. She noted that Hastings had 
used policy  Bs reference number  in its emails to Mr and Mrs G. So she thought both parties  
could have done more to prevent policy Bs lapse. She said the outcome of driving with no 
insurance could  have been  serious, but in fact nothing had happened.  And she thought the 
£30 Hastings had offered  for its poor service around some  calls was fair.  
Mr and Mrs G asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Hastings has shown  that its system produced  the email it says it sent to Mr and Mrs G on 
4 September 2018 to confirm that policy A would lapse. So I think its more likely  than not 
that the email  was sent. But if Mr and Mrs G didnt see that email, I can see why - when they 
got Hastings renewal invitation for policy A - they thought Hastings had made  an error. They 
had no way of knowing that the reminder  was produced by Hastings system automatically 
and that their previous request had been  carried out. So Mr G emailed Hastings  about  it.
Hastings replied to Mr Gs email by asking for details of the policy  or the cars registration. I 
think its fair to say that if hed provided  them, its unlikely there  would have been any 
Ref: DRN10605702confusion later on. But I think it was reasonable for Mr G to respond by saying those details 
were in the email  Hastings had just sent to him. I dont think Mr G could have been expected 
to know that Hastings advisors apparently  couldnt access the earlier email its system had 
produced. 
If Hastings system didnt show the details of its previous email, the advisor  would have had 
to search the system for policies held by Mr and Mrs G. It seems  the advisor was able to see 
policy A was going to lapse and that Hastings had already confirmed it by email.  It appears 
thats why the advisor thought Mr Gs email  was about policy  B. 
Im not sure how reasonable it was for the advisor  to reach  that conclusion.  Mr Gs email  
referred to his having spent 25 minutes on the phone to Hastings the previous  day about the 
lapse. Those  calls were recorded.  I would  have thought it more likely than not that there  
would be some reference to the matter on the file. If so, Id have expected  the advisor to 
realise that Mr Gs email was about policy A  or at least query it with him. Its hard to see 
why the system would have prevented the advisor seeing details about  the recent activity on 
policy A, which was still live at the time.   
Hastings emailed Mrs G on 7 September 2018, citing policy Bs reference number, to ask if 
any changes to the policy were needed  prior to the renewal date. Mr and Mrs G didnt pick 
up on the fact that Hastings thought  it was dealing with a query about policy  B. Mr G replied 
to say no changes  were needed. Hastings  thinks Mr and Mrs G should  have  noted  it had 
used a different  policy number. Whilst that may be right, I think  it would have been easy to 
miss it, especially  when  the entire focus so far had been on policy A.
Hastings emailed Mrs G again on 9 September 2018 to say policy  B would not be renewed. 
The reference number  for policy B was shown again. Mr and Mrs G say they didnt get the 
second email. Hastings has provided a screenshot to show  it was produced on the correct  
date, so again, I think its more likely than not that it was sent. I think it was reasonable for 
Hastings to assume it had been received and that there was no issue with policy Bs lapse. 
I dont think its suspicious that two emails Mr and Mrs G are sure they didnt receive are 
recorded on Hastings  system. Mr G thinks it doesnt seem  right.  But theres  nothing  to show  
that Hastings  created  these records after the event  or that it would  have been  possible to 
do that on its system. Unfortunately, emails sometimes go astray  inexplicably.   
Looking at the situation as a whole, I think the confusion started because Mr G made  what  
was arguably a reasonable decision not to give Hastings  details  it had just sent to him in an 
email. If Hastings  advisor couldnt see those details  or any details  of Mr Gs recent calls 
about policy A  then I think  its fair to say that Hastings system was at fault. If the details 
were shown on the system, then I think its reasonable to say that Hastings advisor was at 
fault for not querying the situation. 
I think Mr and Mrs G could still have prevented policy Bs lapse had they noticed  that 
Hastings subsequent emails had the reference  for policy B. But as Ive already  said, I think  
that would  have been easy  to miss, so I think the greater error was on Hastings part.   
Mr and Mrs G thought  the problem arose because different teams  within Hastings dealt  with 
different aspects of the policies. As the investigator has already pointed out, it isnt unusual  
for insurers to work in that way. We cant instruct  them  how to organise their business 
operations or their systems.  But if a process or system means a particular consumer has lost 
out, we can address the outcome for that consumer.     
Ref: DRN10605703Mr and Mrs G said their major aim in making  a complaint was to get an explanation about 
how they ended up driving without insurance. I think the details Hastings has provided show 
how the confusion  that caused  it to happen arose. But Mr and Mrs G also said they wanted 
compensation for being given the false impression that they were legally insured. 
We award compensation if there  are consequences for a consumer  of not having been 
insured. As Mr and Mrs G thought they were insured, naturally they were appalled when they 
thought about what might have happened during the few days  they werent insured. But 
even if I thought Hastings was wholly to blame  for policy Bs lapse, I couldnt award 
compensation for something that didnt happen. 
In trying to arrange the lapse of policy A, Mr and Mrs G were frustrated at having to provide 
the same  details more  than once to Hastings advisors. I think  their frustration was 
understandable. But in my opinion Hastings recognised its poor service  on that issue and 
offered an adequate sum in compensation for it. 
Taking everything into account,  I can see why Mr and Mrs G werent happy with the overall 
level of service they got from Hastings. But for the reasons set out above, on balance I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to uphold their complaint,  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject it before 21 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1060570