K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB), mis-sold  him a packaged bank account, 
called a Silver account in 2013.
Mr T paid a monthly fee for the Silver account  and received  several potential  benefits in 
return. He thinks  that TSB should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt think that TSB 
had mis-sold the Silver account to him. 
Mr T didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Ts complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr T and TSB have told us or sent us about  the case  and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr T and TSB have agreed that TSB sold the Silver  account to him over the internet. TSB 
has also told us that before  this, Mr T had held several different types of account and that 
immediately before changing to the Silver account,  he had held one of its fee-free accounts, 
although only very briefly.  I think TSBs records on this are probably reliable, Mr T has not 
disagreed with them, and I have taken  them to be correct. 
Mr T has told us that TSB recommended  the Silver account to him, but as it sold the account  
over the internet, I think  its unlikely that it made a personal recommendation or gave him 
any individual advice.  I doubt that any of its staff were directly  involved. However, TSB still 
had to inform  Mr T clearly and fairly about  the Silver accounts benefits and costs, and give 
him a choice about buying it. TSB was allowed to do this through  online software.
Mr T has told us that when  (he) took out the account (he) was led to believe a free account 
was not available. I havent seen the full online screens which Mr T would have seen in 
2013, but I think its highly unlikely that they told Mr T his fee-free account was not available;  
and as I dont  think that any of TSBs  staff were  involved, I doubt  that it misled  him. Fee-free 
accounts were widely  available  in the UK in 2013  and have continued to be so. I dont think 
TSB denied  Mr T a choice  to have a fee-free account. 
I also think its highly likely that TSBs online screens told Mr T about the potential benefits of 
the account. After  all, TSB was trying  to sell the account to its customers  through  its 
software, and it would have been  in its own interests to show them what they could gain from 
buying it. 
In 2013, the benefits of the account included mobile phone  insurance, travel insurance and 
cheaper overdrafts than TSB usually offered to its customers with fee-free accounts. TSB 
has sent us evidence that Mr T registered  a phone  for this insurance, and Mr T has also said 
Ref: DRN13884522that he made a claim. So TSB must  have told him about this insurance benefit. I also 
understand that Mr T travelled to Europe from time-to-time and overdrew his account  
occasionally. So he may well have  also have found  the travel insurance  and cheaper 
overdrafts attractive. 
Similarly, as the fees for the Silver  account would appear on Mr Ts bank statements, and in 
other information that TSB sent him, I doubt that TSB tried to hide them  from him when he 
bought the account  online. I think TSBs system  would  have told Mr T how much the Silver 
account would cost him. 
Mr T has told us that he no longer thinks the fees for the Silver account were worthwhile. 
This is, of course, entirely up to Mr T, but as Im satisfied that TSB meet  its obligations to him 
when it sold him the account, this doesnt mean  it treated him unfairly or mis-sold the 
account to him. 
Mr T has also told us that he tried to cancel  the account but was advised he was unable  to. 
However, he hasnt given us any information about  how or when he tied to do this, and TSB 
has told us it has no record of any such request. So it seems unlikely to me that Mr T let TSB 
know about his wishes. If he still has the account  and wants to close  it, Id suggest  he 
contacts TSB directly.
In summary,  although I cant tell if TSB got everything right in the way it sold the Silver  
account to Mr T, I doubt that it denied him a choice to have a fee-free account  and I think  
that it probably told him about the fees he would have to pay for the account  and the benefits  
he could get in return. So, I dont  think that TSB mis-sold the Silver account to Mr T; 
and nor have I seen sufficiently strong evidence for me to think  that TSB stopped Mr T from 
closing the account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint about  TSB Bank 
plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1388452