K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  about  the way Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited dealt with a 
claim he made on his motor insurance  policy which he says left him in a very difficult  
financial situation.
All references to Southern Rock include its agents. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint  last month.  An extract from that 
decision follows: 
Mr L was involved in an accident which resulted in his car being a total loss. Mr L had got his 
car on finance and he still owed  the finance  company  £16,910.53.
Southern Rock inspected the car and said it was uneconomical to repair.  It initially  said the 
car was worth  £12,345 and it would cost just over £10,000 to repair.  It said it was a category 
D total loss which meant  it was repairable but couldn't  make  financial sense to do this. 
As the finance  outstanding was more than the value of the car, Southern Rock  made all the 
payments to the finance company after deducting the £425 excess. This meant  that there 
was still around £5,000  for Mr L to pay under the finance agreement. 
Mr L complained to us and we referred  the matter to Southern  Rock.  He said his car was 
since purchased  by someone  else who got in touch with him and mentioned hed paid £200 
to repair  the car. Mr L said he was never  given the option to buy back the salvage and that 
this left him in a worse position  than he wouldve been had he been  given the opportunity to 
repair the car privately. 
Southern Rock rejected the complaint. It said because the car was on finance it was obliged  
to firstly  pay back  the finance company.  It also said it wouldnt offer to sell a customer  back 
the salvage unless they asked to buy it back. It said if Mr L had bought back the salvage  he 
wouldve been even  worse off. This is because the salvage was worth around £4,000 and 
this wouldve  meant that it wouldve only paid the finance company back  around £7,000; and 
this wouldve  left Mr L owing £9,558.18  to the finance company in addition to being  
responsible for the cost of the repairs. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld for the reasons Southern  Rock  
gave. Mr L wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
We asked Southern Rock to explain  why it had decided the car was a category D write off 
and queried why Mr L had only been offered £12,345, when its engineer  had valued  the car 
at £13,140. It has now accepted that the settlement  should have  been  calculated on the 
basis of the market value the engineer gave the vehicle. It said the car was a total loss 
probably based on an assessment of the cost of repair.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN10028382The policy includes  a term which says the most  Southern Rock will pay in the event the car 
is a total loss is the market value. It says the market value will be calculated  using  a 
particular motor trade guide (G) but if thats  not possible it will use two other  guides  (C and 
P).  
The policy also says that if the car is subject to a leasing agreement  or hire purchase,  
Southern Rock will pay the owner named in that agreement and it will pay any balance of the 
agreed settlement  to its insured.  Under  the policy, Southern Rock  will retain the rights to the 
salvage of the car for disposal.
The policy doesnt  define what constitutes  a total loss. My understanding  is that a car may 
be a total loss if it is uneconomical to repair. Our approach when it comes to a car being 
declared a total loss is that insurers may proceed  on that basis even if the cost of repairs  is 
less than the value of the car. This is because if the cost of repairs  is high there  may be a 
risk that the car may be liable to subsequent break  downs. 
In this case the engineers report says it would cost £10,189.66 to repair  the car. Southern 
Rock valued the car at £12,345  at the time. So this means the repairs wouldve been around 
83% of the market  value. Southern Rock now says it shouldve valued  the car at £13,140 
instead as was recorded by the engineer, using guide G. This wouldve still meant the 
repairs would be around 78% of the value of the car. Based on these figures  I dont think 
Southern Rocks decision to scrap the car was unreasonable.
Our approach when  it comes to determining whether an insurer made a fair offer towards  the 
market value of a car is to look at four motor-trade guides which provide valuations based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. The guides  we use include the guides 
mentioned in Southern Rocks  policy. Guide  G showed the value as £13,140. Two of the 
other guides valued the car at £11,550  and £12,927 and one guide didnt return  any results.  
Looking at these  valuations it seems Southern Rocks original valuation wasnt  unreasonable 
as it is within  the range  provided by the guides.  But as it has since  said it shouldve offered 
£13,140 instead, I think this would be fair and that it should pay the difference to Mr L. And 
this is also in accordance  with its policy  terms which say that it will primarily rely on guide G. 
I dont think it has to pay it to the finance company as its no longer the owner of the car.
Mr L complained that he wasnt  told he could keep  the salvage. Southern Rock said it 
wouldnt offer him the option of keeping the salvage  and from what I can see this is in line 
with the policy.  So I dont think Southern Rock treated Mr L unfairly  in relation to this. In any 
event the owner  of the car at the time was the finance company not Mr L. So it wouldve 
been up to the finance  company  whether  he got to keep the salvage or not.
I note that Southern Rock deducted  the £425  excess from the payment it made  to the 
finance company.  I think Southern Rock shouldve paid the finance company the market 
value and asked  Mr L to pay the excess directly  to it rather than deduct it from that amount. 
This meant that Mr L owed the finance  company more than he should  and this may have 
affected the repayments he has to make to it. I think this added  to Mr Ls inconvenience 
which Ill deal with below.  
I can see that Mr L found the whole situation distressing. I appreciate he was unhappy to find 
out that a new buyer repaired his car for such a low amount however I dont think  this was 
down to Southern Rock.  But I appreciate that there  was a delay  in making the payment to 
the finance company and that one of Southern Rocks agents lost Mr Ls V5C (vehicle  
registration document) which also caused some  delay. And I understand that the finance 
Ref: DRN10028383company was threatening to substantially  increase  Mr Ls instalments due to the delays. 
Also Southern Rock  didnt  follow  its own policy by failing to offer the market value indicated 
by guide G until after we became involved.  So I think  Southern Rock couldve  handled  some  
aspects of the claim better including the issue of the excess as I explained above. For these 
reasons I think it should pay Mr L £200  for the unnecessary distress and convenience  it 
caused him. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above Im considering upholding the complaint and requiring Southern Rock 
Insurance Company Limited  to:
Pay Mr L £795 which is the difference between the original and subsequent  valuation 
for his car and add simple interest  of 8% per year from the date it made the total loss 
payment to the date it pays him;
Pay Mr L £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
developments
Southern Rock agreed with my provisional  decision. It asked whether the 8% interest would 
be added  to the £795 or on the entire  £13,140.
Mr L didnt agree with my provisional decision.  He made the following  points:
Hes unhappy he couldnt  keep the car. He says he wouldve paid £250 to move  it to 
the dealer who sold him the car who wouldve repaired  it for him. 
The engineer  overestimated  the cost of repairs. The new owner  told him he paid 
under £1,000  to repair the car. 
He wasnt offered guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance.  
The recovery agent lost the log book.
Because he couldnt afford to repay the finance company his mother  in law had to 
take out a loan to pay it which he is paying back to her. He still has £3,800 to pay 
back. He thinks  it would be fair for Southern Rock  to pay him the £3,800 he still 
owes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
change any of the findings  I made in my provisional  decision. 
In relation to Southern Rocks query,  the 8% interest should be added to the £795.  This is 
because this is the amount outstanding in relation to the market  value. 
As Mr L is aware he will need to complain  to those who sold him the policy  about  the lack of 
GAP insurance. As far as Im aware the policy wasnt  sold by Southern Rock.
Mr L has made it clear he wouldve liked to have kept the car. But as I said in my provisional 
decision Southern  Rocks  policy says it will retain the right to the salvage.  Also,  as there  was 
finance outstanding on the car, it still belonged to the finance company so it wouldnt have 
been Mr Ls to keep in any event. 
In relation to the repairs, the only expert evidence Ive seen is that of Southern  Rocks  
engineers who said the repairs would cost around  £10,000. I havent seen any expert 
Ref: DRN10028384evidence to contradict  this. I appreciate  Mr L says the new owner told him he paid a lot less 
but I havent seen any evidence of that, other than what Mr L has said.  But even  if I had, this 
wouldve still had to be supported but expert  evidence to say, for example, that the repairs 
were done  to a standard that didnt mean the car was unsafe  and that all the repairs were 
carried out etc.
I addressed the issue of the log book in my provisional decision so I dont think I need to 
repeat my findings  here.  
I appreciate that Mr L has been left out of pocket but for the reasons I gave above, I dont 
think Southern  Rock has to pay him anything further to what  I awarded in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above Im upholding the complaint and requiring Southern  Rock  Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Pay Mr L £795 which is the difference between the original and subsequent  valuation 
for his car and add simple interest  at a rate of 8% per year from the date it made  the 
total loss payment  to the date it pays him*;
Pay Mr L £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited  must pay the above within  28 days from the 
date we tell it Mr L has accepted my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
*If Southern  Rock Insurance  Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1002838