K820x#14complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance  SE (Great Lakes) has only paid a 
proportionate settlement  towards her travel  insurance claim.
background
In December 2017 Ms R took out a travel insurance  policy through  Post Office  Money  for her 
upcoming holiday in January  2018. Great Lakes are the underwriter for the policy she took 
out. Unfortunately in January 2018 Ms R wasnt able to go on the holiday as her son had a 
medical appointment he needed to attend,  so she put in a claim under her travel  insurance.
In September  2017 Ms Rs son visited his GP as he had chest pains and palpitations. He 
was then seen  in hospital for the same issues in October 2017 and was referred to another 
hospital to see a specialist. The specialist appointment was the one that was initially  
arranged for when Ms R and her son wouldve been  away. Her GP advised that it wouldnt 
be appropriate for them to defer the appointment, so the family didnt go on holiday.
Great Lakes reviewed her claim for cancelling  the holiday, but it didnt agree to cover  Ms R 
and her family for the full amount. It said that Ms R hadnt disclosed her sons  existing 
conditions, so she hadnt paid the correct premium for her cover. It worked out that she had 
paid 30% of the premium it wouldve charged, so agreed to cover  30% of her cancellation 
costs. 
Ms R was unhappy with this as she considered she should get the full amount she paid. 
Great Lakes didnt change its position, so she brought  her complaint to our service.
When Great  Lakes provided its file it changed  its stance on this case. It referred  to the terms 
of the policy  that say it wont provide  cover  for cancellation of a trip if an insured party has an 
undiagnosed medical condition and this is what leads to the cancellation.  So it said it had 
incorrectly paid Ms R 30%, as she wasnt due any money. But it wasnt  seeking  to recover  
these costs.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2020. I set out that Id seen a 
sample copy of the application form Ms R completed.  And that the first page  of this was 
about medical issues, with Section 1 being  titled important health questions.  The form set 
out that if you answered Yes to any of the questions you should  speak to Post Office  Money 
to discuss cover. One of the questions  relates  to receiving  medical  advice or treatment for 
heart conditions  which based  on her sons history at the time, Ms R needed to have said 
Yes to. However her policy schedule  indicated that she didnt declare any existing 
conditions.
Ref: DRN12819292Directly below the health  questions, the application form stated: 
You will not be covered  for anything that arises from, is related to, or has been 
caused by ANY Pre-existing Medical Conditions unless You have told us about 
the condition(s) and We have agreed to cover it/them in writing.
If anyone has an undiagnosed Medical Condition  (for example, if waiting for tests,  
investigations or treatment)  this policy will not cover any related claim against 
Section A  Cancellation or Curtailment and Section B  Emergency Medical and 
Additional Expenses.
As Ms Rs son was suffering from an undiagnosed condition,  this meant the policy didnt 
provide cover if their holiday had to be cancelled (due to his condition).  I considered  this was 
clearly and prominently set out on the application  form. And was repeated in Ms Rs policy 
documentation. Considering her son had been to hospital and was waiting to see a 
specialist, I thought she shouldve known she wasnt going  to be covered.
I was satisfied that Great Lakes made it clear on the application  form that cancellation cover 
wouldnt be provided if it was due to an undiagnosed  condition. And the evidence  showed 
that Ms R did have to cancel the holiday due to an appointment  for her sons undiagnosed  
condition. So I thought Great Lakes would have been acting fairly in declining Ms Rs claim 
outright. As it had already  settled the claim at 30% and said it wouldnt ask for this back, 
I didnt consider it needed to do anything further.
Ms R disagreed with my provisional decision. She said she felt the insurance was a scam 
and if she had known  she wouldnt  have bought  insurance.  Great Lakes didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate how Ms R feels, I cant agree that her insurance  policy  was a scam. As 
I set out in my provisional decision, I think the application has clear  questions and set out the 
cover it provided if someone in the party had an undiagnosed medical  condition.  As she 
chose to go-ahead with cover, she accepted  these  terms  which  meant her policy didnt pay 
out when she claimed  due to her sons undiagnosed  condition. 
So for the reasons summarised  above  and set out in my provisional decision, my decision is 
that Great Lakes  doesnt need  to do anything further  in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1281929