K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt ensure that full repairs  
were done  to her car after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. She also 
complains about  poor service from Admiral and its approved repairer. 
background 
Mrs Ms car was hit by another car in June 2018 whilst parked. One of Admirals  approved  
repairers (garage  M) carried out the repairs.  But when the car was returned to Mrs M she 
said it was pulling to the left. And there  were  other  issues  with it. The car went back to 
garage M at the start of August  2018. There was a long delay until parts  were delivered.  
The car was returned to Mrs M again  on 25 September 2018. She said it was still pulling to 
the left, the bumper was the wrong  colour  and there  were still other issues. 
Admiral instructed a firm of independent  engineers (firm I). Its report of 5 October 2018 
said the bumper  needed repainting and a geometry  and steering check should be done. 
The engineer said other issues raised  by Mrs M (such as scratches to the doors)  would be 
supplementary expenses  if Admiral agreed to them. Admiral later agreed  to pay for the 
paintwork and for a missing mudguard, plus the rectification work. As Mrs M didnt want  to 
go back to garage M, Admiral said she should get an estimate from a main  dealership.  
Firm I didnt  think  the dealerships estimate for repairs was acceptable at £10,000. Its 
engineer said the car should  be checked again  at the premises of an approved  repairer. 
As Mrs M wouldnt  allow to car to go back to garage  M, it went into garage R in January 
2019. A geometry check was done  and the steering rack was replaced. Firm Is engineer told 
Mrs Ms husband that two worn  tyres  were  causing  the car to pull to the left. After the 
mechanical work was done and the tyres  were  replaced, the independent engineer  said the 
car drove normally. He noted that the paintwork still needed doing  and that Admiral  had 
made a cash in lieu offer of £1,500 for that.  
Shortly after the car was taken back  to Mrs M, she said it was still pulling to the left. And she 
said the estimate she got for the paintwork was much more than the sum Admiral had 
offered her for it. Admiral had also offered Mrs M £200 compensation plus a further £50 for 
not dealing with her complaint promptly. She thought it should pay her more.
When our investigator reviewed the complaint,  she said £500 compensation was fair.  
She also thought  Admiral  should have the car repainted or pay Mrs M the full cost of having 
it done. She queried the opinion of firm Is engineer that no more  work needed to be done  on 
the cars  suspension.  She said Admiral should  either  arrange  for further  work  to be carried 
out or pay Mrs M the sum quoted by the dealership garage.  
Mrs M accepted the investigators view. Admiral agreed to pay £500 compensation. But it 
said it wanted firm I to comment  on the other proposals. Firm Is engineer  didnt think  any 
further mechanical repair work was needed. He noted that Admiral  had paid Mrs M to have 
the paintwork  done  although not for the £3,660 set out in her estimate.  
Admiral also gave us comments from its own engineer. He said the estimates Mrs M got for 
mechanical repairs and for the paintwork were inflated. He said all the geometry tests 
showed the car was within the manufacturers specifications.  In his view no more mechanical 
work was required.  He pointed out that firm Is engineer thought some of the paintwork could 
Ref: DRN15238932have been scratched whilst the car was driven  over 1,800 miles after the first repairs were 
done. He thought Admirals offer of £1,500 for the work was fair. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows: 
We usually give great  weight to the views  of independent engineers. In this case firm Is 
engineers have reviewed  the car twice.  Theyve  provided two reports  and commented  on the 
estimates Mrs M provided. I think the evidence from firm I is persuasive. 
In the first report,  firm Is engineer agreed that the car was pulling to the left and said it 
needed geometry  and steering checks.  He also thought the rear bumper needed repainting.  
Admiral agreed to that, plus some extra work he thought  was supplemental. I think  that was 
reasonable. Admiral  also agreed to allow Mrs M to get an estimate from a dealership garage 
- and if approved,  have  the work done  there. I think that was also reasonable. 
As the dealership garages estimate  was so high, I think  it was fair for Admiral  to ask firm I to 
review it. The engineer noted it didnt reflect the findings hed reported to Admiral and 
included replacing  manufacturers parts that had just been  fitted  by garage M. He saw no 
need to replace the complete front suspension and the sub-frame. He said the repairs listed 
meant the car wasnt  roadworthy. So a payment for repairs wasnt  appropriate.  And he said 
the car should  be checked again to ensure there  was no new damage to it. I think it was 
reasonable for Admiral to note the engineers concerns and have the car re-inspected.  
After the second  inspection,  firm Is engineer said the car had been  driven  1,859  miles since  
the first inspection - despite the dealerships estimate showing it wasnt roadworthy. With a 
minor tweak, the geometry tests fell within  the manufacturers limits. The steering rack was 
replaced, but it seems  the main problem was with two worn  tyres. Mrs Ms husband provided 
new ones, as this issue was unconnected to the accident. The engineer said the car then 
drove as expected. Admirals shown us evidence  of the geometry checks  and the work done 
by garage R. Two of its engineers road tested the car and found no issues  with it.
Although Mrs M said the car was still pulling to the left after this, I think  it was reasonable for 
Admiral to rely on the checks  that had been  done and the independent engineers opinion. 
Admirals engineer made more comments than those set out above.  He said the impact  to 
the car wouldnt have  caused the level of damage reflected in the dealerships estimate.  He 
also said there was no reason to replace the new parts that had been fitted by garage M. He 
said Admiral had agreed to replace the steering rack  despite no sign of any damage to it  
because such damage couldnt be completely ruled  out. Given  the lack of any visible  
damage and the geometry checks,  he was sure Admiral had done all the work needed. He 
said the paintwork  had been costed by garage M and that Admirals  payment of £1,500 was 
reasonable to repair  it. 
Based on the details  Ive seen so far, and taking into account  all the checks  that were carried 
out on the car, I think Admiral has acted reasonably. It paid around £8,000 for the repairs   
not including  the paintwork. I dont think Mrs M has shown that there are still mechanical 
faults with the car, let alone  that around  £10,000  more should be spent  on it. 
The firm Mrs M consulted about  the paintwork wanted to charge £3,660  for the work.  But I 
think the estimate supplied by garage M  and approved by an independent  engineer - 
seems fair, subject to any further evidence to the contrary.  
Ref: DRN15238933As I dont think Admiral has acted unreasonably  in relation to the repairs or the sum offered 
for the paintwork, I cant uphold those parts of Mrs Ms complaint. Admiral  has agreed to pay 
her £500  in total for distress  and inconvenience,  which I think  is fair.        
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Admiral didnt comment. Mrs M 
was disappointed that my findings were different to those of the investigator.  In her opinion,  
Id relied on biased engineering evidence. She said shed  provided evidence that the 
paintwork would cost £3,600 to put right, whereas Admiral had provided none to show that it 
would only cost £1,500. Mrs M disputed that the car was driven over 1,800  miles between 
inspections. She didnt follow why Admiral had claimed over £18,000 from the other  insurer,  
given the much lesser  sum she thought it had paid on repairs. And she said it still hadnt paid 
her for the missing mudguard, as promised in its final response letter of 31 October  2018.      
 
I issued a further provisional decision  in which I said as follows:
I dont agree that the two independent  engineers who reviewed  the suspension and 
the paintwork  issues were  biased. The duty of independent engineers is to the court, 
should legal  proceedings later take place. They have  no such duty to Admiral.
Admirals offer for the paintwork repairs was based on the independent engineers 
review of the estimate from garage  M (a manufacturer-approved garage). In garage 
Ms report, each element of the work  was set out. The second independent engineer  
noted the cars much higher mileage at the time he inspected  it. Theres nothing  to 
show he got that wrong. But in any event, both independent engineers concluded  
that some of the paintwork  damage  was supplementary (not due to the accident). 
The other insurer wouldnt have  paid Admiral £18,000 had Admiral not been able to 
show that it incurred  costs of that amount. The costs included not only repairs  but 
also a very substantial sum on car hire for Mrs M. 
As Mrs M hadnt  mentioned the mudguard issue previously - and Admiral had said in 
its final response letter  that it would replace it - we assumed that had been done. 
After Mrs Ms comment we contacted  Admiral  several times,  but got no response.  
Had Admiral told us it would replace the mudguard (as it had promised to do in 
October 2018) there would have been  no need  for a second provisional decision.  
As Admiral hasnt explained why it hasnt dealt with the issue, I think it should  pay for 
the item.  Mrs M says it will cost £350. Unless Admiral can show  that the sum Mrs M 
has quoted isnt correct  and provide evidence of the items cost - I think  it should 
pay her that sum. It should also pay her the £500  compensation proposed in my 
previous provisional  decision.   
In response, Admiral  agreed to pay the £500  compensation, plus £380 for the mudguard. 
Mrs M didnt  comment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Mrs M didnt make any further comment, and Admiral agreed to the remedies I set out, 
theres no reason  to depart  from the findings  set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN15238934my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs M £350 to replace the mudguard - plus interest, at the simple yearly  rate of 
8%, from the date of claim to the date of settlement 
Pay Mrs M £500 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1523893