K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Vitality Life Limiteds refusal  to pay out a Critical Illness  Insurance 
policy claim. 
background
In 2017, Mr W was in the process of purchasing a property, and arranging  a mortgage and 
cover through his Independent Financial  Adviser (IFA). 
On 26 October 2016, an initial application  for the policy was submitted  and accepted by 
Vitality  valid until 30 January 2018.   Although the application was due to be finalised, the 
house purchase didnt go through until the end of April 2018. 
Thats why the IFA submitted  another application on 6 March 2018, which was accepted on 
the basis of a declaration made  on 28 February 2018 by Mr W. In due course The IFA 
confirmed the plan should start on 1 May 2018.   
Sadly in April 2018 Mr W began experiencing symptoms  attributed to cancer. After seeing  
his doctor  he was referred for a biopsy on 24 April 2018. A formal diagnosis  of cancer was 
made on 23 May 2018. 
Mr W subsequently made  a claim on the policy and Vitality requested his medical records in 
order to assess the claim.  Having  done  so, it refused the claim saying his symptoms were  
present prior to the policy commencing. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Vitality hasnt done anything wrong  by declining Mr Ws CIC claim. 
Insurers generally accept policies in good faith, which  means underwriters will base 
their decision  to provide cover, adjust any terms and conditions, apply restrictions  or 
refuse cover based on information provided  by the consumer  at the point of sale.  An 
underwriter wont cross-reference  the details until a claim is made on the policy.  
At the application  stage, an insurer is under a duty to make clear  to the consumer 
their ongoing duty to notify it of any changes  that occur between  application  and 
commencement of a cover.  This is important because it could determine whether or 
not cover  is provided, and if it is, the terms under which  it is provided,  including the 
cost of premiums. This is standard industry  practice and not unique to Vitality.  
Although Mr W correctly answered  No to a number of important questions  about his 
health  in a declaration signed  and dated  28 February 2018  prior to being 
accepted, he didnt notify the insurer of changes to his health (including referrals to a 
specialist) between  that time, and when his application went  live on 1 May 2018. 
Mr W didnt  meet his ongoing duty of disclosure which  was made  reasonably clear in 
the acceptance letter and Plan Schedule  dated  16 April 2018. 
Although Mr W feels his claim should be paid because there  was no formal  diagnosis 
by 1 May 2018, thats not what  the questions were asking.
Had Mr W answered the questions differently, the insurer  would have deferred  
offering the terms of cover until answers  to the investigations had been  provided. Its 
unlikely it would  have  offered CIC on the same terms as it did, if at all. 
If the underwriters were able to provide  cover, its likely to have been done  so 
excluding cancer, which  means  he wouldnt have been covered.    
Ref: DRN16241282Although Mr W feels his cover should  have  started from the date of his declaration 
dated 28 February 2018, Vitality  wouldnt commence the policy  without the express 
consent of the policy  holder. Mr Ws IFA chose to start the policy from 1 May 2018,  
this deferment  wasnt  due to Vitalitys  error.   
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators conclusions and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. 
In summary,  he said:
The application was originally due to commence in February 2018 alongside his 
mortgage but the completion of his property was delayed, resulting in a delay in 
cover.
Mr W had signed a declaration of health on 28 February 2018 and sent it to the 
insurer the following  day. The questions were answered correctly at this point.
There was no formal  diagnosis of cancer  until May 2018 (when the policy  was on 
risk) and as a result, there is a payable claim.
Mr W disagrees with Vitalitys interpretation of the histology of his condition.
Theres normally an ongoing  duty to disclose up to the policy start date and thats what  
insurers tell consumers. In this case I note it also says the following under the duty of 
disclosure declaration:
I/We will inform you immediately of any changes  that occur  and that would affect my 
answers before the application  is accepted (an application is accepted when we have 
provided a final underwriting decision).
The above  quote refers to an ongoing duty up to the point when it provides a final 
underwriting decision - which in this case seems to be 6 March 2018  when the final 
underwriting decision was given  rather than the start date of 1 May 2018.   
At my request the business provided  the following response:
we originally accepted  the application on 30 October 2017.  However, we did not get 
confirmation that we should  go ahead with starting  the cover  within  the 90 days following 
this.
On 1 March 2018 we received an email  from the (IFA) with a Declaration confirming no 
change to Mr Ws health. We sent updated Acceptance  on 6 and 7 March  2018. On 13 April 
2018, (the IFA) emailed us to request  that we start the policies from 30 April 2018. However, 
we cant start any policies between the 29th and the 31st of each month as this would  cause 
issues with the policy months every  February. Our Broker Consultant, (Ms P) has confirmed 
that this was discussed with the IFA and a decision made to start the policies from 1 May 
2018.
At my request the investigator sought  clarification  and the business provided the following 
clarification:
we did not decline the claim based  on non-disclosure.  We declined the claim because 
the condition started  before the start of the policy and based  on the following from the Plan 
Provisions (Appendix H of our submission, page  55, attached):
We will only accept  a claim if the condition  you are claiming for occurred after the start date 
of your plan, or you disclosed  it to us when you applied for cover.
Ref: DRN16241283This is confirmed on page 5 of our submission document  (attached).  Additionally, our 
response to the complaint (page 13 of the submission document) confirmed:
The Plan Provisions make it clear  that we will not pay a claim for Serious Illness  Cover if the 
condition being  claimed for started  before the cover started.
We do not consider  this an underwriting issue or related  to any form of non-disclosure  as we 
are satisfied that there is no evidence to show that the condition started before our 
Acceptance Letters  of 6 and 7 March  2018 (Appendices D and E). Our decision is, however, 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policies.
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mr W says, Im not persuaded  that Vitality  has done anything  wrong by declining  his 
CIC claim. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling about  this matter. I can see he is suffering from severe  
health issues and I have nothing but sympathy  for the position  he finds himself in. I realise 
hes been going through a very difficult time.
 
Mr W has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint,  which  Ive read and 
considered very carefully. However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
Its also important to understand  that the ombudsman  service isnt the industry regulator. 
That means we dont set the rules for financial businesses  or police the industry to make  
sure those rules are followed. And we dont have the power  to fine or punish  businesses. 
These are all issues dealt with by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr W and Vitality,  and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Im satisfied in the declaration dated  28 February 2018, Mr W correctly  answered No to the 
following questions:
Your Health
Have you ever had or do you currently have any of the following:
Ref: DRN16241284Cancer, Leukaemia,  Hodgkin's disease, Lymphoma, brain or spinal tumour?
Your health in the last 5 years
Apart from any condition  you have already told us about, have you had any of the
following in the last 5 years:
Lump, cyst, growth or skin lesion of any kind?
Recent and Current Health
For the remaining  questions please  see the list of minor conditions  and treatments  that can 
be ignored.
Apart from anything  you have already told us about in this form,  within the last 2 years  have 
you undergone  any investigation such as blood tests, scans or biopsies?  If so, for what 
condition (or suspected condition)? 
Apart from anything  you have already told us about in this form,  do you have  any impairment 
or medical  complaints that you intend  seeking medical  advice for, or are you currently  
awaiting the results of any investigations? 
Vitality sent Mr W an acceptance letter dated  6 March 2018. It explained:
It's important that you tell us about any changes you've had to your health (including any 
referrals to a specialist or hospital),  your occupation,  pastimes or residency, between  the 
time your application was submitted and the date of this acceptance letter . If you do not, it 
may result in the non-payment  of a claim. (my emphasis). 
Im satisfied that within this period  between  the time Mr Ws application was submitted and 
the date of the acceptance letter  he had no changes to report. In other words between  the 
date of the relevant application and the date of the letter there were no changes to Mr Ws 
health or circumstances.  
In response to the letter from Vitality dated 6 March 2018, Mr Ws IFA  on 16 April 2018  
confirmed the policy should start from 1 May 2018  when the first premium would be taken,  
and thereafter  premiums would be taken on the 1st of every month. 
I cant say that this deferral was down to any negligence by Vitality  or Mr Ws IFA who was 
authorised to act on his behalf, and was given the option to choose a date between  the 1st 
and 28th of the month,  and he chose the 1st. 
The policy schedule dated 16 April 2018  was sent out the same  day, which made clear that it 
formed part of the agreement between Mr W and Vitality. It repeated  the questions from 
February 2018, in case there was any change to Mr Ws health  and circumstances,  and 
reminded him of his ongoing duty to disclose. It said:     
Duty of Disclosure Declaration
I/We the applicant(s) declare that, to the best of my/our knowledge and belief, the 
information on this form is true and complete and agree that the terms of this application and 
declaration and any statements made  by the life or lives to be assured  to VitalityLife's (or 
Ref: DRN16241285specialist third party provider's) nurse  or medical  examiner together with VitalityLife's letter of 
acceptance will be deemed  to form part of any resultant contracts. (My emphasis). 
I/We will inform  you immediately of any changes that occur and that would  affect my 
answers before the application  is accepted (an application is accepted when we have 
provided a final underwriting decision).
I/We understand that failure to do so may result  in the contract being declared void,  and that 
a claim for the proceeds may not be paid.
I/We authorise my/our financial adviser  to act on my/our behalf in relation to the matters 
indicated in this form and to provide information to VitalityLife. I/We request VitalityLife to act 
on any such information and, where  appropriate, confirm  that my/our  financial adviser  is able 
to act on my/our instructions to provide the information on this form, to apply for a plan and 
to agree the commencement date of the plan with VitalityLife.
So, whilst Mr Ws answers  to the questions  dated  28 February 2018 were correct  and up to 
date at the time, and there were no changes to report by the time he received the 
acceptance letter. 
The answers to the questions  werent  necessarily correct or up to date by the time of the 
deceleration of 16 April 2018,  which had to be taken together  with the letter of acceptance. 
But Vitality  has made  clear that its not rejecting the claim  on this basis.   
More importantly by the time the policy went live on 1 May 2018 - despite Mr W having an 
ongoing duty to notify Vitality of any changes, and reminded to do so, Mr W failed to notify 
Vitality of any changes to his health.  
I note Vitality says:
We declined the claim because the condition started before the start of the policy and based 
on the following  from the Plan Provisions (Appendix H of our submission, page 55, 
attached):We will only accept a claim if the condition you are claiming for occurred after the 
start date of your plan,  or you disclosed it to us when you applied  for cover,
 
I also note it said:
The Plan Provisions make it clear  that we will not pay a claim for Serious Illness  Cover if the 
condition being  claimed for started  before the cover started.
I note Mr W first experienced symptoms on 11 April 2018, and the biopsy was carried  out on 
24 April 2018. He was formally diagnosed on 23 May 2018, when it was confirmed his 
tumour was cancerous.   
I note the point Mr W makes about  his diagnosis, but the questions from Vitality didnt ask if 
hed been formally diagnosed but simply whether  Apart from anything you have already told 
us about in this form, do you have any impairment  or medical  complaints that you intend 
seeking medical advice for, or are you currently awaiting  the results  of any investigations? 
to which  the correct answer  would have been yes. 
Ref: DRN16241286So, despite  the letter from Mr Ws doctor  his Consultant in Medical  Oncology   confirming 
that Mr W wasnt informed of the results of the histology until he saw the surgeon  on 23 May, 
this doesnt change my conclusion.  
I also note in a letter dated 19 September 2018, Vitality confirmed:
Whilst we accept that you did not receive  confirmation of your diagnosis  until your 
appointment on 23 May 2018, the diagnosis was based on surgery performed on 24 April 
2018 with histological confirmation  of a diagnosis of cancer done on tissue sampling taken 
during the surgery  on 23 May 2018. In other  words,  a medical  diagnosis  was made on 24 
April 2018.
So it seems  all that Vitality is saying is that it didnt need a formal  diagnosis for a condition to 
be pre-existing. I know Mr W disagrees with this, but I dont think  its an unreasonable  
conclusion. I also dont  think  Vitality  is changing  the goal posts as Mr W suggests.   
Once Vitality became  aware of the correct information, Im satisfied it was entitled to review  
its decision to offer cover. Its important to understand  insurers  are entitled to make  
decisions about whether or not to cover somebody based on their medical history. 
I note under its terms and conditions Vitality made  clear that it would only accept a claim if 
the condition Mr W was claiming for occurred after the start date of his plan, or he disclosed 
it to Vitality when he applied for cover. Im not persuaded that either of the two conditions are 
met. 
I also note the terms and conditions say:
We will not pay if:
We are not satisfied that the serious illness that has led to your claim occurred either
while we were providing you with Serious Illness Cover or was disclosed to us when
you applied.
The medical information Vitality received shows that in addition to Mr W first experiencing 
symptoms on 11 April 2018, he had a procedure related to his condition carried  out on 24 
April 2018. So, regardless of when the condition was diagnosed, because it started before 
his cover started, it cant  consider a claim for his condition.  
So I dont  think Vitality  is under an obligation  to pay the claim or has done anything  wrong  by 
refusing it. 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he was hoping to hear. 
I appreciate Mr Ws frustration, I can see hes been  through a difficult  time and Im 
sympathetic to his position. But this doesnt  change the fact that I dont think  Vitality has 
done anything  wrong by refusing his claim.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr W 
what he wants. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN16241287For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1624128