K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his bank account and credit card account 
without any reason why. 
background
Mr R has been banking  with HSBC for around 25 years. He had a current  account and credit  
card account. On 27 July 2018 HSBC wrote to him to give notice of its intention  to close both 
accounts. Mr R had previously reported a customer service incident in February.  He thought  
this may have had something to do with HSBC  wanting to close his accounts. In 2018  
another bank  had closed  his account and he also thought this had something to do with it. 
He complained to the bank. 
In its final response HSBC did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it had given Mr R the 
required 60 days notice of closure and the decision to close the accounts  remained. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator concluded that HSBC had acted 
in line with its terms and conditions and it need  not do anything further. Mr R wasnt  satisfied 
with this and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  He said he didnt think HSBC  
had acted fairly or legally  by closing his account without a reason.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr R but having done  so I wont  be asking HSBC to do anything further. 
In this decision I will respond to Mr Rs complaint as it relates to the closure of his bank and 
credit card accounts with HSBC. Mr R had other  complaint points which  are being dealt with 
as separate complaints.
Unfortunately for Mr R, while this may feel unfair, HSBC can withdraw  its banking  services 
provided it does so according  to the terms and conditions. Ive looked  at the terms and 
conditions relating to Mr Rs accounts. I can see HSBC sent Mr R a letter  notifying  him of its 
intention to close his accounts on 27 July 2018.  It said it would close them on 25 September 
2018. So Im satisfied it provided  appropriate  notice of closure.  
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC hasnt provided  a reason for the closure. As the investigator has 
explained HSBC  are not obliged to provide an explanation as to why the accounts would be 
closed. HSBC sent a final response letter to Mr R dated 31 August 2019  and it provided a 
copy to this service. It said:
The bank was, and remains, unhappy with the operation of your accounts during  the 
period of their existence.
I realise this is not a full explanation and unfortunately  I am unable to provide any further 
detail. HSBC has made a commercial decision  to close the accounts as is its right. While I 
do appreciate this situation has been  frustrating and inconvenient  for Mr R Im satisfied the 
bank hasnt done anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN17213712my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1721371