K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about his investment of £10,000  in a split capital Investment Trust 
Company (ITC). He says he made this investment in 2005  and that it was an unsuitable 
investment. He also says he was induced to make the investment and in this respect  he has 
made separate complaints  about  Elson Associates  Plc (Elson)  and about a third party  firm 
that managed  the ITC. The present complaint is about Elson
background
Elson mainly says:
Mr B invested in the ITC in 1999  on a direct offer/execution only basis.  It is an 
execution only broker that offers discounts and commission rebates to clients who 
are prepared  to make  their own investment decisions, so it does not give advice on 
suitability and it gave  no such advice to Mr B.
Mr B was sent its terms of business  when he contacted them  in 1999  and later that 
year it sent him a direct offer mailing pack, including its covering letter and a 
brochure for the ITC offer. Its terms and its covering  letter  confirmed that it did not 
give advice and did not recommend suitability of the ITC to Mr B. Copies of the 
former and (a template  version of) the latter have been provided to this service.
Mr B made his own decision to invest in the ITC based  on the direct offer mailing  
pack. It no longer  has record  of his investment application documents  and it has no 
record of any investment transaction for Mr B in 2005, but if such  a transaction took 
place in relation  to the ITC it would have been  within its execution only model.
It disputes the complaint because it did not recommend the ITC to Mr B.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and broadly agreed with Elson.  She 
concluded that the complaint should  not be upheld for the same  reasons it gave.  She too 
referred to the terms and covering letter. Mr B disagreed with this outcome;  he referred to 
media reports about funds  that had been challenged by investors  and looked into by the 
regulator; he considered them comparable to his case and asserted  that responsibility  for his 
ITC investment rests between Elson and the third party firm that managed the ITC. The 
matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr Bs complaint about the third party firm 
that managed  the ITC has been  addressed separately. This decision is only for his complaint 
about Elson.
Elsons terms of business document appears to be from around 1999 and the same applies 
to the template version of its covering  letter  other  documents  from 1999  about Elsons 
service have also been shared with us. Being a template,  the covering letter is not 
addressed to Mr B but given the passage of time  since 1999 and 2005  I do not consider 
it unreasonable that Elson no longer holds records of its communications with him. Overall  
and on balance, I consider the available documentation to be a reliable reflection of the type 
of communications  that happened between  the parties.
Mr Bs claim expressly refers to 2005,  whilst Elson  refers to 1999. There  is no documentary  
evidence of Elson recommending the ITC to him in either year.
Ref: DRN11038382Elsons terms of business document says it was authorised to give independent advice but it 
operated on an execution only and direct offer model. The terms explain that it was able to 
reduce investment purchasing costs  (through  commission rebates) for investors in this 
context and that investors should  obtain  independent advice about  investment suitability. In 
the other documents (about its service) the same  message is repeated. Elsons covering 
letter refers  to the ITC investment offer and concludes with a standard paragraph that also 
includes the same message. 
It appears more likely (than not) that these documents would have been issued to Mr B at 
the time of his investment  and that he would have  been informed about this recurring 
message  that is, that the ITC investment was being offered to him without advice from 
Elson and without Elsons responsibility  to give advice. I have not seen evidence of a 
contrary message given, by Elson to Mr B, either  in 1999 or 2005. There  is wider evidence,  
from the firm that managed the ITC, which proposes that Elson  received a form of 
fee/commission for Mr Bs investment but I have not seen  evidence that any such  
fee/commission related  to more than the direct offer/execution only service.
Elson appears to have  played a role in Mr Bs ITC investment but evidence says that role did 
not extend to providing advice. Responsibility for suitability of an investment arises where a 
firm performs the regulated activity  of advising on investments. Elson  does not appear to 
have performed that activity, so it was not responsible for suitability of the ITC for Mr B. 
Present regulations can require a firm to assess the appropriateness of promoting an 
investment offer to investors,  but those regulations were not in place prior to 2007. In either 
1999 or 2005 Elson did not have this regulatory duty to assess  appropriateness of 
promotions.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that there  is a basis  to hold Elson responsible  for 
the unsuitability  (of the ITC investment) that Mr B has alleged.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 19 March 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1103838