K820x#14complaint
Mr W says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card.  HSBC  no longer has a record of 
how Mr W applied  for the credit card and PPI. But Mr W says he applied for the credit card at 
a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
 Mr Ws told us that he had no idea he had PPI on his account,  and wasnt told about  it 
when he applied for the card.  Due to the time thats passed, HSBC no longer has 
copies of the paperwork Mr W signed when he applied for the credit  card and PPI. 
I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable. But it does mean that theres  not enough 
evidence for me to say that HSBC added the PPI without Mr Ws knowledge or 
consent.
 Ive also borne in mind that the premiums for the PPI would have been shown on 
Mr Ws credit card statements. If he didnt want PPI, or didnt know  what  the payments 
were for, I think its likely hed have queried this with HSBC. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that he did so. Overall,  I think its more likely  than not that HSBC made Mr W 
aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it  although I can 
understand why he may no longer remember this, so many years  later.
 In the absence of any record of how Mr W applied for the credit  card,  Ive assumed that 
the sale took place in branch,  as Mr W says it did. And Ive assumed, for the purposes 
of this decision, that HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr W. This is to Mr Ws 
advantage, as it means  that it had a responsibility to check  that the policy  was suitable 
for Mr W. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN10807222 Mr Ws told us hed have been entitled  to some  sick pay from his employer at the time. 
But if hed made a successful claim on the policy,  it would have helped with his monthly 
credit card repayments  for up to 12 months.  Thats significantly longer than Mr Ws told 
us hed have been  entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same  benefit 
if Mr W had been  made redundant. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to 
any payments Mr W received  from his employer.  So he could have used those to meet 
other day-to-day  expenses.
 Ive borne in mind  that Mr Ws told us that he had equity in property, which he could 
have used if necessary. But Im not convinced, on balance, that Mr W would have 
wanted to go to the trouble of releasing equity in his property  so that he could make his 
credit card repayments. I acknowledge that hes also told us that his partner  could 
have helped him financially if need be. But circumstances can change, and I cant be 
sure that Mr Ws partner would have been  in a position to help him if the need  had 
arisen. So taking  everything into account, I think the policy  could have been useful for 
Mr W.
 Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But I think its likely that Mr W chose  to take out the policy. So 
I think he probably wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably  forgotten that 
now, so many years later. He wasnt affected by any of the main  things  the policy didnt 
cover. The policy  was competitively priced, and I havent  seen anything to make me 
think Mr W couldnt afford  it. So I think  it unlikely hed have  made a different decision 
even if better information had been provided. On balance  I think hed still have taken 
out the policy.
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN10807223my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1080722