K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the sale of a private  medical insurance policy by Health-on-line 
Company UK Limited (HOL).
background
Mrs R had private medical insurance cover with an insurer. After speaking  with an adviser  at 
HOL, she transferred her cover to a new policy, though still with the same insurer.  
Mrs R had been seeing a consultant for the past 20 years  for treatment, and then annual  
check ups. That consultants fees were covered in full under her previous policy, and so she 
thought theyd be covered in full under the new policy.  However,  when she wanted to see 
the consultant a few years  after the new policy  started, she found out the insurer would only 
cover 60% of his fees, and she would be liable  for the shortfall. Unhappy about  this, she 
made a complaint. 
HOL didnt uphold  the complaint, so Mrs R brought the matter to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought HOL had given 
Mrs R sufficient information about the new policy, and she noted Mrs R hadnt specifically 
asked whether her particular consultants fees would be covered. She didnt  think  HOL had 
done anything  wrong. 
Mrs R didnt accept the adjudicators findings, so the matters been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs R says HOL didnt  tell her the terms and conditions of her new policy would be different 
in any way to her previous policy. She thinks HOL should have made it clear that she would  
have to pay 40% of her particular consultants fees. 
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis. That means HOL wasnt able to give Mrs R any 
advice about the suitability of the policy. However, it was obliged  to give her sufficient 
information about the cover to enable her to make an informed decision as to whether to 
take it out. 
Ive therefore  listened  to the calls that took place between Mrs R and HOL when she took 
out the policy. 
Mrs R initially  called  HOL to explain that her current policy was becoming  unaffordable, and 
so she wanted  to transfer to a new policy. She explained  shed  previously had breast cancer 
and skin cancer, and although shed been given  the all clear for both conditions, she still had 
annual check ups. Mrs R went on to explain that she did this because under her existing 
policy, the insurer covered the annual check ups. She said she didnt need them, she just 
went to them  because  they were covered and for peace of mind. 
Ref: DRN18476812After speaking with the underwriters, HOL confirmed  it could arrange the transfer and there  
would be no exclusion for breast cancer,  but there would be an exclusion for skin cancer.  
Mrs R accepted this and also confirmed her understanding that there wouldnt be cover for 
annual check ups under the new policy.  
The HOL adviser  went through  the various options  available under the new policy, such as 
outpatient benefit etc. Once Mrs R had made  the relevant selections, the adviser confirmed 
what cover  she would have under the new policy. At no point did the adviser indicate that 
Mrs R would have the same cover as she had under her previous policy. The adviser also 
explained that if she needed to make a claim, she should call the insurers  claims team first 
to make sure her specialist  and hospital  were covered. 
Im therefore  satisfied that HOL gave Mrs R sufficient information  about the new policy for 
her to make an informed decision as to whether  or not to take it out. 
Mrs R has made reference to some email  correspondence between  her and HOL, where 
HOL said it was able to transfer  her underwriting, but with an exclusion for skin cancer. Mrs 
R says she thought this meant that she would  retain  the cover she had. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs R thought this, but I dont think the email indicated  she would retain 
the same  cover as she held under  her previous policy. As Ive said,  I think it was made clear 
to Mrs R during her calls with HOL what cover  she had under her new policy.  The reference 
to the transfer  of underwriting  meant  the same exclusions  would apply to her new policy that 
applied to her previous  one (with  the addition of an exclusion  for skin cancer)  so she would 
still have cover for breast  cancer provided the particular treatment was eligible in other 
respects under the new policy. I think this was fully explained to Mrs R by HOL during their 
phone calls. 
The policy explains  the insurer  covers  Health For You specialists fees in full. If the 
specialist isnt a Health For You specialist but is recognised,  then the insurer  would cover 
60% of their fees and the member would be responsible for the remaining 40%. And if the 
specialist was neither  a Health For You specialist  nor recognised,  then the member would 
be responsible  for paying all that specialists fees.
Mrs R thinks HOL should have told her that the policy wouldnt  cover her consultants  fees in 
full. I disagree. Although  she had told HOL shed been seeing a consultant, she wasnt  
seeing him for any ongoing treatment. She explained she was only seeing him for annual  
check ups, which werent actually needed  she was only having them because they were 
covered under her old policy. And she understood those  checks  wouldnt be covered under 
the new policy. 
Therefore, the HOL adviser had no reason to think Mrs R would need to see that particular 
consultant going forward. And HOL did make Mrs R aware that she would need to call the 
insurer if she needed to make a claim to see if her specialist was covered. If Mrs R had 
wanted to know  if that particular  consultant was covered under her new policy,  HOL could 
have told her that the policy  would only cover 60% of his fees. But she didnt ask about this, 
and I dont think HOL had any reason to check whether his fees would be covered in full.  
I therefore dont  find that the policy was mis-sold.
Mrs R makes the point that the insurer told her it would cover  her consultants fees in full in 
certain circumstances.  
Ref: DRN18476813Although this complaint isnt against  the insurer, I see HOL has addressed this point in its 
final response letter. Its confirmed the insurer would cover  the consultants  fees in full if a 
network exemption were  applied. That would only take place if it wasnt able to offer her 
treatment within a 20 mile radius of her home.  But that hasnt been the case  - the insurer 
was able to offer her two consultants within 20 miles of her home, whose fees would  be 
covered in full. I think this explains  why the insurer wouldnt cover  her consultants fees in full 
under a network exemption.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1847681