K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him several packaged  bank 
accounts between  2001 and 2010. 
Mr W paid monthly  fees for the packaged  accounts  and received  several  potential  benefits in 
return. He thinks  that Lloyds  should  refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
Mr W has banked  with Lloyds for quite a long time and has held three different packaged 
bank accounts.  Both parties seem agree that his account history  is as follows  
in or before  2001, Lloyds sold him a Gold account,
in October 2003 it sold him a Platinum account,
in August 2010, it sold him a Premier account, 
in October 2018, he switched to a fee-free account.
I have taken this history to be accurate. 
When Mr W complained directly to Lloyds, it accepted that it had mis-sold the Gold account 
to him, and I understand that it paid him appropriate compensation. 
During our own investigation  into Mr Ws case, there has been some  dispute about which of 
the remaining  aspects  of the complaint we have authority to consider. Another ombudsman 
looked into this and decided that we have authority to look into the way Lloyds sold the 
Platinum account  to Mr W, but not the Premier account.
One of our adjudicators then looked into Mr Ws complaint about the Platinum account and 
didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold it to him. Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make  a 
final decision.
Due to the other ombudsmans  decision  about our authority,  and the way the dispute about  
the Gold account seems  to have been  settled,  I am only considering Mr Ws complaint about 
the Platinum account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Ws case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Mr W and Lloyds have told us or sent us about it, and Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2003, Lloyds, and other  banks, were allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two ways. 
They could do so on an information only basis or as an advised (or recommended) sale.  In 
both situations,  they had to tell customers about  an accounts costs and benefits  clearly and 
fairly and give them  a choice about  buying it, and in an advised sale they also had to check if 
an account was appropriate for a customers needs.  Lloyds has told us that it advised  Mr W 
Ref: DRN10688492to buy the Platinum account during a meeting  at one of its branches. Mr W seems to have 
accepted this and I have  assessed his complaint as an advised  sale. 
Mr W has raised several points where he thinks Lloyds failed to meet its obligations and 
didnt treat him fairly.  Amongst other  things, hes told us that Lloyds 
didnt tell him about other options  and other  products,  
didnt consider his specific  needs or requirements when it made its 
recommendation, 
misled him that buying the Platinum  account  would benefit (him) in terms of 
mortgages, loans  and overdrafts . 
He has also pointed out that he applied  to Lloyds for a mortgage in 2008 but it declined his 
application. In short, he believes  that Lloyds benefited from its recommendation, but it was to 
his detriment.  Lloyds  disagrees. It thinks that it gave reasonable advice and that its 
recommendation was fair. 
Obviously, I wasnt present at the meeting and so I cant tell for sure what happened, 
(Indeed, Mr W has pointed out to us that unless a person is actually present at such  
business meetings,  they are unable to ascertain  or conclude what actually happened ). So, 
in order to make a decision, Ive looked at the evidence that is available,  including Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time, to work out what is most likely to have taken  place. Ive taken Mr 
Ws main points  in turn. 
Lloyds didnt tell Mr W about  other  options  
With respect to other bank accounts, before Lloyds sold Mr W the Gold  account, I 
understand that he had a fee-free account.  In 2003, such accounts were widely available in 
the UK, both from Lloyds  itself and from its competitors, and have remained so since.  I 
accept that Lloyds probably  didnt discuss them at length with Mr W during the meeting, but I 
havent seen anything to make me think it said it was withdrawing this option  or that Mr W 
couldnt keep  his Gold account.  I dont  think Lloyds denied Mr W a choice about  which  
account to take.  
Similarly, I think its highly likely that Lloyds  told Mr W how much  the Platinum account  would 
cost, particularly as the monthly fees would  appear on his statements. 
Turning to other products, Mr W has pointed  out that at times he had a large overdraft and 
has suggested that Lloyds should have recommended  that he apply for a loan rather than 
use the overdraft,  as this would  probably have been cheaper. He has sent us some 
calculations to illustrate his point. 
Lloyds had previously  arranged loans for Mr W and so it seems to me that it must have told 
him about their availability. Indeed, in 2003, one of the benefits of the Platinum account  was 
that Lloyds usually charged customers with such accounts lower  interest  rates on some 
types of loan (and overdrafts) than it would  apply to customers with fee-free accounts, and it 
seems likely to me that Lloyds would have told Mr W about this benefit. After all it was trying 
to sell the Platinum  account to Mr W, and it would have been in its own interests to let him 
know what he could get in return from his money. 
Ref: DRN10688493I accept that Lloyds may not have recommended a loan Mr W, but Im satisfied that it let him 
know they were available, and I dont think the absence of such  a recommendation meant  
that it mis-sold the Platinum account to him.
Lloyds didnt consider Mr Ws specific needs or requirements
Mr W has made this point  quite strongly.  Hes also told us that when  Lloyds investigated his 
complaint during 2018, it asked him about his circumstance then, rather  than in 2003. He 
thinks this was incorrect as it was his situation at the time of the sale that mattered. I dont 
know much  about the conversation in 2018, but I agree with Mr W that its his financial 
situation in 2003 thats relevant  to his complaint, not his circumstances in 2018. 
As I cant  tell what Lloyds asked or didnt ask Mr W during the meeting in 2003,  I have  
compared the benefits of the Platinum account  at that time with what I know  about Mr Ws 
situation back then to see if Lloyds recommendation was reasonable.
In 2003, as well as the cheaper loans and overdrafts  I have already mentioned, the main  
benefits of the Platinum  account included worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown  cover, 
discounts on some types of holiday  and a commission-free  foreign  exchange service.
Its already clear that Mr W had a potential need  for an overdraft or a loan, and I understand 
that he drove a car and travelled abroad  from time-to-time. So, it seems to me that some  of 
the benefits of the account  matched some of Mr Ws potential  needs.
In correspondence,  Mr W has mentioned that at times he had (and used) alternative forms of 
travel insurance and car breakdown  cover.  I accept  Mr W had these. However,  I dont know  
the extent to which they duplicated the benefits of the account, exactly  when Mr W held 
them, or how much they were discussed during the meeting; and I dont think they meant 
that it was unreasonable of Lloyds to recommend  the Platinum account to Mr W. The 
account provided a package  of benefits and could  still have been appropriate for Mr W even 
if he didnt need  all of its potential benefits. 
Lloyds misled Mr W that buying the Platinum account would benefit  him in terms of 
mortgages, loans  and overdrafts
As mentioned already,  the account could provide  Mr W with cheaper  loans and overdrafts, 
so I dont think Lloyds  said anything misleading about this. However, I think  that Mr Ws main 
concern here is that he thinks Lloyds told him that buying the Platinum account would allow  
him to get a mortgage, but it then refused to grant him one.
I dont have a great  deal of evidence about this point, but decisions on granting  mortgages 
are usually based on a persons income and expenditure and credit worthiness rather  than 
the type of bank account a person holds. And as Mr W did not apply for a mortgage  for a 
further five years or so, I dont see any reason for Lloyds to have given him false  information. 
I doubt that it did. 
 
Mr W has also mentioned that by using an aspirational term like Platinum Lloyds was 
seeking to attract customers  to the account. I accept this may well be true, but I dont think  it 
amounts to mis-selling. He has also mentioned that Lloyds  has, on occasion, been fined by 
the financial services  regulator.  Again, this may well be true, but I dont think it shows  that 
Lloyds mis-sold the Platinum account to Mr W. 
Ref: DRN10688494So, in summary,  I cant tell if Lloyds did everything  right when it sold the Platinum account to 
Mr W, but Im satisfied  that it gave him a choice  and told him about  the accounts  cost and 
benefits. I think it made a reasonable recommendation and I dont think  that it misled him 
that buying the account would increase his chances  of getting a mortgage.
I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Platinum account to Mr W. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC, I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1068849