K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) and its authorised 
repairers dealt with a leak at his property when he called on BGI for assistance under his 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr S had a property which was let to tenants. He took out a home emergency policy with 
BGI which covered,  amongst other things, repairs to plumbing  and drains at the property.
In February 2018  Mr S noticed a damp patch in his ceiling which he thought indicated a leak.  
He called on BGI who asked one of its authorised repairers, whom Ill call R, to attend.  Rs 
plumber thought it was a damp issue rather than a leak and advised against opening up the 
plaster to investigate further.
In June the issue worsened,  with water dripping  from the ceiling. R sent a plumber who 
opened up the ceiling. He said the timber work was damp, and the structure was dangerous 
and would have  to be repaired before R could do anything. Mr S claimed  on his house 
insurance who arranged  for the structure to be secured. Mr S had to pay a £200 excess  on 
this house insurance  claim.
R then said the leak was caused  by a deteriorated waste pipe, which would have to be 
replaced. But as this was a steel  pipe,  the repair was excluded  under the terms of Mr Ss 
policy with BGI. R said it would carryout the repair  separately and outside  the policy. Mr S 
agreed to pay R separately  for this work, which it carried out.
Two weeks later, the leak started again.  R returned  and resealed everything, but the leak 
persisted. Mr S arranged  for another plumber to come  and investigate. He repaired a join in 
two pipes which he said R had failed properly to secure. Mr S had to pay him for attending. 
Mr S complained to BGI. He thought R should have identified  and dealt with the problem on 
its first visit in February 2018. If it had, most of he other costs wouldnt have been necessary. 
He also thought the term in BGIs  policy excluding the repair of steel pipes was 
unreasonable as he had no way of knowing when he took out the policy that there were steel  
pipes in the property.
BGI didnt  accept his complaint and thought it hadnt done anything  wrong. So Mr S 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said one of the 
exclusions listed in the BGI policy was that BGI wouldnt  repair  or replace steel or iron pipes.  
She understood that Mr S thought  R should have found the cause of the leak on its first visit 
in February 2018.  But even if it had, she said BGI wouldnt have covered the repair  because  
of the policy  exclusion, and Mr S would always have to have claimed on his household 
insurance policy and pay the excess on that claim.
Mr S also thought it was unreasonable for BGI to rely on the policy  exclusion.  The exclusion 
was on page 30 of a 35 page policy booklet. He wasnt a property expert and didnt know 
what the pipes  in his house were made of. So even if he had seen the policy exclusion, it 
wouldnt have meant anything to him. He thought BGI with its greater experience of 
Ref: DRN11652072properties would have been  more  likely  to know  that an older property such  as his would 
contain steel or iron pipes.
The investigator said the exclusion was set out in the policy  booklet. Mr S had the 
opportunity to read this and cancel his policy if he didnt think it was suitable for his needs. 
So she thought BGI was entitled to rely on the policy exclusion.
Once Mr S decided to employ R to work on the property outside the ambit of the BGI policy, 
Rs work was outside the terms of reference of this service. So she couldnt  consider any 
issues relating to the way R carried out this work,  or ask BGI to reimburse the costs  of the 
independent plumber. Mr S had now claimed  for his ancillary expenses under his household 
policy. So it wasnt appropriate  for us to recommend that BGI compensate Mr S for costs 
covered by that claim.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that he still thought it was unreasonable for BGI to rely 
on the policy exclusion. As he had no means in practice of knowing he had steel  pipes in his 
property, he couldnt  make an informed decision when taking out the policy.  BGI knew  the 
age of his property. So he thought it was in a better position to know  the likelihood  of it 
having steel pipes  because of its property experience, and to warn  him of the risk of this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the problems Mr S had with the leak at his property, and the time it has 
taken for this to be resolved. However the issue I have to consider is whether I can 
reasonably require BGI to compensate him for anything that happened.
BGI sets out in its policy  booklet under the heading General exclusions a number of 
circumstances which wont be covered by the policy. Amongst these, listed  under  a separate 
heading Steel and iron pipes, is that it wont repair steel or iron pipes. I think  BGI was 
entitled to set out the risks it was prepared to insure, and those it wouldnt cover,  and that 
the policy booklet did this sufficiently clearly.
Mr S says BGI was in a better position,  because of its experience, to know that his property 
might contain steel pipes, and so should  have drawn his attention to this risk. I dont agree. 
Properties during their life undergo various changes and without detailed  and costly 
investigations I dont  think BGI was in a position  to assess  this risk any more  than Mr S. I 
dont think BGI had any obligation to draw this exclusion to Mr Ss attention.
For the reasons  the investigator explained,  which Ive set out above, I agree that:
the repair of the leak fell outside  the cover  provided by the BGI policy;
the work  R did, and any consequential expense flowing from it, fell outside our terms 
of reference and so I cant  comment on it; and
Mr S has claimed for the work involved under  his household insurance policy. He has 
suffered a £200 excess under  this, which would always have been  the case. It 
wouldnt be appropriate, in any event, for me to ask BGI to compensate  Mr S for 
anything covered by that claim,  which would  allow Mr S a double recovery.
I dont think its reasonable for me to require BGI to do anything more.
Ref: DRN11652073my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1165207