K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream)  irresponsibly gave him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Lending Stream gave  Mr M 4 loans between September 2016 and April 2017. There  was a 
break in the lending of about six months  between repaying loan 1 and taking out loan 2. 
A summary  of Mr Ms lending is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 21/09/2016 04/10/2016 6 £250.00 £106.00
2 01/04/2017 06/04/2017 6 £240.00 £101.76
3 08/04/2017 13/04/2017 6 £300.00 £127.20
4 14/14/2017 Written off
01/11/20186 £570.00 £241.68
Mr M says that proportionate  checks werent carried out before the loans were provided. He 
says if these had taken place Lending  Stream  would have realised he was reliant on short 
term loans and gambling heavily and the loans werent affordable.
Lending Stream says that before the loans were provided it carried out through  affordability  
and credit checks. It verified  the information  provided by Mr M and on the basis  of the 
information it gathered  the lending was affordable. 
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that the loans shouldnt  have been 
provided given  the amounts involved and Mr Ms borrowing  and repayment  history. 
Mr M didnt  accept our adjudicators view and said it was clear that his borrowing pattern and 
credit report  showed he was reliant  on other  payday lending  to repay the borrowing. He said 
he had been in a debt management plan and accounts with other payday lenders  were in 
arrears. Another adjudicator reviewed this information but still did not conclude that there 
was a reason  to uphold any of the loans.
Mr M asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN11226682the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could sustainably repay  his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I have looked  at the information gathered, including income and expenditure information 
from the time. Mr M said he was earning £820 for loan 1 and £1147 for loans 2 to 4. He said 
his outgoings  were between £150 and £250.  There was nothing  in the information gathered 
to suggest that Mr M was struggling to manage his money or that he couldnt  afford  to repay 
what he had borrowed.  All the loans looked  affordable on the figures Mr M gave.
There was a six month gap between loans 1 and 2 which  suggested that Mr M wasnt 
dependent on this credit. Loan 1 was repaid in full and on time and there was no repayment 
difficulty. Loans 2, 3 and 4 were all taken out and repaid within a very short period of time 
over 2 weeks. This is unusual and increasing his loans in this way suggests  Mr M wasnt  
responsibly managing  his money. But this on its own isnt enough for me to say that the 
loans were unaffordable. Mr M was borrowing relatively small amounts and there were no 
difficulties with his repayments. If Mr M had continued to borrow  in this way then I would 
have expected further checking later in the loan chain but not at this stage.
I dont doubt that Mr M was in financial difficulty and was borrowing out of necessity. I 
sympathise with his situation. But on the basis of the evidence  I have seen I cant say that 
Ref: DRN11226683Lending Stream should have been alerted to his difficulties and not provided the loans. I 
understand that loans Mr M took out with other lenders have been entered  into a debt 
management plan.  I can see from the emails that Mr M sent Lending  Stream that this 
happened in April 2017 at the time he fell into difficulty  repaying  loan 4.
I dont doubt that Mr M had loans with other short term lenders but these  werent declared to 
Lending Stream as part of Mr Ms outgoings. I cant say that it was reasonable and 
proportionate to undertake the level of checking that would have revealed these loans given  
the information Lending Stream  had. 
When Mr M fell into difficulty  he told Lending Stream that he had an unexpected  debt.  He 
then explained  that he was entering  into a debt management plan. Mr M did not repay  any 
interest and charges in relation to loan 5 and a proportion of the capital  of around £88 was 
also written off. Mr M paid around £48 in interest  and charges on loans 1 to 3. In these  
circumstances I think that Lending Stream has acted fairly and reasonably and I cant ask it 
to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1122668