K820x#14complaint
Mr C was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. He instructed Accident Exchange  
Limited to manage  the repairs to his car, which included a respray.  Mr C is unhappy with the 
quality of the respray.
background
Following a non-fault road traffic accident, Accident Exchange  managed the repairs to Mr 
Cs car. This included  respraying the repaired areas.  Mr C was unhappy with the respray as 
the colour didnt  match  the unrepaired  parts of his car. Accident Exchange obtained  an 
independent engineers report which said the colour  match was commercially  acceptable.  
Mr C got his own report that said it wasnt acceptable and hes now had the whole of his car 
resprayed at a cost of £5,325.73.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. While the Legal 
Ombudsman would consider complaints about  accident management companies (AMCs) 
such as Accident Exchange, they would  only look at the service  provided directly by the 
AMC. They wouldnt look at the service provided by third parties such as repairers.
The investigation was completed by a Claims Management Ombudsman  investigator who 
found Accident  Exchange had provided a reasonable service.  He felt that theyd done what 
would be expected of an AMC when the quality of repairs  was disputed.  Because  of this he 
didnt think Accident Exchange needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He doesnt feel Accident Exchange did everything  
they couldve when  faced with conflicting reports. He also feels  that his independent report, 
an email from a main dealer and photographic evidence showing the paint was wrong is 
worth more than the report Accident Exchange obtained, as their engineer was known to the 
repairers. So the complaint has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen that Accident Exchange took Mr Cs concerns seriously. They  arranged  for an 
independent engineer to inspect Mr Cs car. This report said there  were  some issues with 
the paintwork,  but also said the colour match was acceptable. While the repairers  were  
prepared to rectify the issues identified on this report, Mr C didnt want  them to do. Accident 
Exchange then advised him he could obtain  his own report  if he remained dissatisfied. 
Ive not seen anything to show  Accident Exchange told Mr C that, if his report  said there 
wasnt an acceptable colour match (which was what it said),  then the repairers would 
definitely respray the car. While a second  report could be used in any action against the 
repairers, Accident  Exchange couldnt  force the repairers to respray  the car. Because of this, 
I cant say Accident Exchange acted unreasonably.  
Ref: DRN16913182I appreciate Mr C is frustrated by the situation,  and that hes paid to have his car resprayed,  
but it was his choice to do this. Mr Cs dissatisfaction  with the initial  respray relates to the 
service provided by the repairers, not Accident Exchange. Under  the Legal  Ombudsmans  
rules Im unable to look at the service provided by the repairers.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I agree that Accident Exchange  Ltd provided Mr C with a 
reasonable service  by obtaining an independent  engineers report and advising Mr C of his 
options if he remained dissatisfied.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1691318