K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) unfairly  charged him an 
additional premium  when he changed  the car on his motor  insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
background
Mr B changed the car on his policy mid-term. RSA charged Mr B an additional premium of 
roughly £85 (before  admin charges). Mr B said that was equivalent to an increase of around 
£100. Mr B didn't  think that was fair as his new car was a lower insurance  grouping  than his 
old car. He brought his complaint about that to us.
Our adjudicator didn't think  RSA had done anything wrong. Mr B didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr Bs new car was a lower insurance grouping than his previous car. So it seems he hadn't  
expected his premium  to increase when  he changed the car on the policy.  Mr B told us that 
hed previously negotiated a discounted premium at renewal, which  reduced  it by roughly 
£54. So he suspected that RSA was attempting to clawback  that discount when he 
changed his car.  
Its important that I make  clear that were not the industry regulator.  So its not my role to say 
how much  an insurer  should charge, what  factors  it should assess,  or how much risk to 
attach to each  of those  factors when deciding  on a premium. Insurance  is essentially an 
assessment of risk. And we generally  take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  When  deciding  how much to charge 
for their policies insurers will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders  
will make a claim and how much  they might have  to pay out for those. And each insurer will 
go about that in its own way. So, when  deciding if an insurer  has dealt with a consumer 
fairly, I look to see if its treated them the same  as it would  other consumers with similar 
circumstances.
RSAs provided us with some information about what caused Mr Bs premium to increase  
when he changed  his car. That information  is commercially sensitive so I cant  share  it with 
him. I can understand  Mr B might find that frustrating. And it would  certainly be easier  for me 
to explain how Ive come  to my conclusions  if I could show him how some  specific risk 
ratings (what RSA bases  the premium on) have changed. But it may help if I explain that 
insurers wont usually explain exactly how theyve worked out a premium to their customers. 
Thats because,  if they did, that information  could give a commercial  advantage to their 
competitors. So we dont  include such  information  in our decisions,  which  are published.   
Ref: DRN16080042Its up to RSA to decide for itself the risk a specific car will present. Insurers dont generally  
assess a cars risk based on widely published insurance groupings. In my experience 
insurers will generally gather their own data and make  their own calculations  about the levels  
of risk they believe various  models  of cars present. And as each insurer will do that in its 
own way we wont generally interfere with that assessment. So its not a simple matter of 
saying that a car in a lower insurance  grouping will be cheaper  to insure than cars in higher 
groupings. And insurers will look at other factors including the likelihood of cars being stolen 
or involved in accidents  and the amounts theyve had to pay out for those. So its not the 
case that changing car to a lower grouping, or that a less powerful or less expensive  car will 
automatically result in a cheaper premium, as many consumers tend to think.  
As Ive said above,  its not for me to tell RSA how it should assess risks. But Ive looked at 
the information its shared with us and I think its treated Mr B in the same  way that it would 
other customers in similar  circumstances. And I've seen no convincing evidence  that its 
deliberately inflated his premium in order to clawback an earlier  negotiated  discount. So I 
think its treated Mr B reasonably.
For completeness, since our adjudicator issued his view, Mr Bs added  that when RSA 
invited renewal it said that his premium  for the year before was equivalent to £658. But Mr B 
said it was equivalent  to £712.  But the premium RSA quoted for the previous year was the 
amount Mr B would have  actually paid after deducting the £54 discount  from it. So that 
discount would reduce  the £712  figure  Mr B calculated to £658. And as thats the figure RSA 
quoted I don't think this is evidence of it recouping that discount.
Mr Bs also referred to finding  a cheaper  quote  online. I haven't  examined how RSA 
calculated that quote. But its fairly common for insurers  to offer policies for online customers  
through comparison websites that attract new business discounts  that aren't available to 
their renewal customers. Im also aware that most  insurers  will review  their risk assessment 
with great  regularity. That means the quotes they provide might change  on a daily basis. And 
those assessments of risk are reflected in the premium and can go up or down.  So it's not 
unusual for consumers to find policies available  online for more or less than theyre  already  
paying. But thats a matter  of insurers commercial judgement and I don't find it unfair.  
It follows that Im not upholding  Mr Bs complaint. I realise my decision is likely to disappoint  
Mr B, especially  as Im aware  that he feels hard done by. But I hope  he can take some  
comfort form my finding that I haven't seen any convincing evidence  that RSA manipulated 
his premium in order to clawback a discount it had previously offered to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1608004