K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains about two secured loans she holds with Blemain Finance Limited. 
background
Mrs R borrowed  £25,500 (plus fees) in February  2006, and then borrowed a further £17,000  
(plus fees) in December  2007.
Unfortunately, Mrs R got into difficulties with her payments and so the loans went into 
arrears.
In 2018 Mrs R complained about her loans. She said the original sales  had been 
irresponsible, and shed  not been treated  fairly.
Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She said that we had no 
power to consider a complaint about anything that happened with the 2006  loan account 
before 1 April 2014 as its an unregulated  loan and so wasnt in our jurisdiction before that 
date. She also said we couldnt  consider anything that happened  with the 2007 loan account 
before 2 October 2012 (six years before the date the complaint was made to Blemain). 
Our adjudicator then considered how Blemain  had conducted both accounts  since  the 
relevant dates. She didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint, but did recommend 
Blemain reverse one £46 fee from 2013 and pay £150 compensation as she thought  
Blemain could have  been clearer with its information. 
Mrs R didnt agree and so earlier this month I issued a decision setting out what we could  
and couldnt  consider. In that I agreed with our adjudicator that our power to consider this 
complaint is limited to events since 1 April 2014 for the 2006 loan and since 2 October 2012 
for the 2007 loan. I said a decision would follow on the merits of the part of the complaint  we 
could consider. I now issue that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mrs R. But although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep  my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having reviewed the transactions on the two accounts for the periods Im able to consider, I 
can only see one fee of £46 has been charged. As Blemain has already agreed  to reverse 
that fee (as if it hadnt been charged)  then I dont  need to make a finding on that.
I appreciate Mrs Rs concern that shes been told shes not on track to repay  the loans by the 
end of the terms. The figures on the loan agreements are based on a person paying  all of 
the contractual monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. 
Clearly that didnt happen here as Mrs R has been in arrears on both accounts.  
As interest  is constantly  being charged  this means  its not as simple as making  up the 
missed payment, theres  also the extra interest  incurred  for every day that payment is 
overdue. This interest  can add up significantly  as Mrs R has found. Thats not to say Blemain 
Ref: DRN19347662was charging interest on interest, its just a simple fact that for each delayed payment extra 
interest will be charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is late.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction histories and theres nothing  on there that appears  unusual or 
incorrect. Of course, its open to Mrs R to instruct an independent and suitably-qualified  
professional to audit  her accounts. But that would have  to be at her expense  though  if 
errors were found to her financial detriment, she could complain about them  and her costs in 
discovering them could  be taken into account in putting matters  right.  But as things stand, 
Im not persuaded that Blemain has mis-managed her accounts.
Mrs R has said she was told her accounts  were arrears-free, but then received a letter  
saying £3,000 was unpaid. I can understand her confusion, as the letter  says that there are 
outstanding amounts on her account  which arent being covered by the existing monthly 
payments. To explain, the amount  being  referred  to is the unpaid  fees balance, so whilst the 
monthly payments  are up to date Mrs R hasnt made enough extra  payments to cover the 
additional interest and fees as Ive explained  above. I understand Mrs R briefly  increased her 
monthly payment  in 2015 to work towards  paying the accumulated  fees, but within  a couple 
of months she said the higher sum was unaffordable and changed  back  to what  shed 
previously been  paying.
As it explained, Blemain  wont  automatically  ask for a higher amount to cover the unpaid  
fees, but if Mrs R doesnt find a way of paying that sum (either  monthly  or as a lump  sum) 
then there  will be a balance outstanding  at the end of the loan term. Blemain agreed to pay 
£150 compensation in recognition of the confusion  caused by the letters and I consider that 
is fair in the circumstances.
Mrs R has said Blemain hasnt supported her when shes said shes  struggling with the 
payments, and that she needs to do some  essential work to her property. Ive considered 
this point very carefully but I dont agree. Blemain  asked  Mrs R to provide information about 
her circumstances. Once it received information  about Mrs Rs income and expenditure 
Blemain pointed out that Mrs R was paying £313  a month towards unsecured debts, and that 
the Blemain loans (as secured debts) should take priority over those. It recommended she 
sought independent debt advice and provided details of various organisations that offered 
free debt advice.
Mrs R asked Blemain to write off the remaining balances  of the loans, or asked if she could 
pay just £5 a month. Blemain responded to remind Mrs R what  it had said about her 
unsecured debts, and again said if she needed  guidance then she should contact one of the 
free organisations. Having looked  at everything  it would seem  sensible for Mrs R to arrange 
for one of those organisations  to look at her overall  circumstances and they can then put 
together a plan for Mrs R. 
Blemain doesnt  have to write-off the debts, or accept such  a reduced  monthly  payment 
when the information Mrs R has provided  shows she has the ability  to meet her payments 
(as the secured debt should take priority over the unsecured debt).  If Mrs R works with one 
of the free debt advice organisations and she then still feels  Blemain isnt treating  her fairly 
then thats a new complaint she can make at the time, but until the process is undertaken I 
cant say Blemain has done anything wrong.
Finally, Mrs R said Blemain continued to phone her after she asked it to not do so due to 
issues with her hearing. Our adjudicator said she couldnt see any calls were made by 
Ref: DRN19347663Blemain after Mrs R made that request, but said if Mrs R had evidence  of any calls then she 
should provide  that and wed look into it. As Mrs R hasnt provided any evidence of any calls 
after that date then I agree with our adjudicator and dont uphold  this part of her complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but only insofar as I consider  the offer to reverse  the £46 fee and pay 
£150 compensation is fair and reasonable. I order Blemain Finance Limited  to carry out this 
award in full and final settlement of this complaint  (if its not already done  so).
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1934766