K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about a personal loan that was granted to her by Barclays Bank  UK PLC. 
She said she didnt  realise  the loan was in her sole name, and that Barclays didnt take 
appropriate steps to check whether she could afford the loan when she took it out. She 
wants Barclays to write  off the outstanding  balance  and remove  the entry from her credit  file.
background
Barclays arranged an unsecured loan for Mrs S in September 2014. The loan was for 
£33,000 and was due to be repaid over 60 monthly  repayments of around £668.  The 
repayments were due to be taken  from Mrs S, and her then husbands, joint account.  
The monthly repayments had been  made  on time throughout the agreement,  but in 
November 2018,  Mrs Ss relationship with her husband broke down, and she said that in 
March 2019, he told her he would no longer be taking responsibility  for the repayments. At 
this point the account began to fall into arrears.  
Mrs S called Barclays to complain. She explained that she had been  in an abusive  
relationship and she thought the loan was in her husbands name. She thought  she was only 
signing to agree that repayments would be taken from their joint account. She said had she 
realised the loan was in her sole name  she would  have never agreed to it, as she could not 
afford the repayments  alone. So, she asked Barclays  to clear the remaining balance. 
Barclays responded and said that Mrs Ss loan was agreed considering the joint income of 
her and her husband. It also said that it shouldve been clear to Mrs S the loan was in her 
sole name, as she had taken out previous loans this way and it was being used to repay the 
outstanding debt on a previous one. Barclays didnt think it was wrong to approve the 
application and as a result it didnt agree to clear the outstanding balance.  
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mrs S bought her complaint to this service.  An 
investigator considered  it and in summary  thought it was more  likely than not that Mrs S was 
aware the loan was in her sole name. He also thought that Barclays had undertaken 
sufficient affordability checks and because the loan repayments were coming from a joint 
account, he thought it was affordable to Mrs S. As a result, he didnt think Barclays  had done 
anything wrong. 
Mrs S remained unhappy.  She re-stated  that the loan was not affordable  for her and that 
Barclays hadnt done enough to make her aware  the loan was in her sole name.  So, she 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The case  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Barclays agree to a loan that Mrs S did not know  about?
Mrs S took a loan out with Barclays in September 2014. Barclays  has provided a copy of the 
loan agreement that she signed. Mrs S hasnt disputed signing the agreement,  but shes said 
Ref: DRN10240342she thought she was simply signing to agree for the direct debits to be taken from a joint 
account.
A considerable amount  of time has now passed since  the loan was taken  out, and I 
acknowledge Mrs Ss recollections of what she thought she was signing for at the time. But 
Ive looked at the loan agreement from Barclays and I think  its clear that Mrs S was signing 
for a loan in her sole name, rather than a direct debit mandate.  
The signed  loan agreement says that Barclays  agree to provide Mrs S with a Barclays  loan 
on the terms and conditions set out in the agreement.  It then sets out Mrs Ss rights in 
relation to that agreement, including  her right to cancel; and asks her to sign below - only if 
she wants to be legally  bound by the terms of that agreement. It doesnt seem  to mention 
direct debits or contain any bank details that would lead me to believe that she thought she 
was purely signing  a direct debit  mandate. 
The purpose of the loan was to consolidate  debt,  including  a previous Barclays loan,  in 
Mrs Ss name. So, while I appreciate Mrs S feels strongly about the above point, Im satisfied 
the loan agreement made it clear that by signing she was taking sole responsibility for the 
loan. And I think its likely Mrs S signed,  knowing what she was agreeing  to at the time.
Mrs S has made some further comments about the loan application. She says shes  never 
been to the Barclays branch where  the application was made,  and she said the staff member  
was friendly with her ex-husband, so that could have  been why the loan was granted.
Mrs Ss testimony and recollections  havent always been consistent throughout her 
complaint and she isnt disputing  that she signed the paperwork. On balance,  I think  its most 
likely she did attend the branch. I havent  seen anything to support Mrs Ss accusations 
about the staff member  acting inappropriately so these dont change view that its most likely 
she knew she was taking  out a loan in her sole name. 
Was the loan affordable?
While Mrs S may have accepted responsibility for the loan, Barclays  still had an obligation  to 
carry out sufficient checks  to ensure the loan was affordable. 
Theres no set list of checks  that Barclays was required to complete before lending  to Mrs S. 
But it needed to complete  affordability checks that were  proportionate. Deciding what checks  
would be proportionate include considerations about the amount borrowed, the associated 
cost and risk to Mrs S, her borrowing history including any indications that she might be 
experiencing (or had experienced)  financial difficulty, and so on.
The loan Mrs S took out was for £33,000, with monthly repayments of over £600. At the time 
Mrs Ss loan was approved, the Barclays account she held jointly  with her husband received 
regular transfers  in of around  £3,700 a month.  Because of the time thats passed Barclays  
no longer has records  of the affordability checks it completed. But it has said it would have 
completed an income and expenditure report on the joint account to check affordability. I can 
see the repayments of the loan were less than 20% of the income into that account, and 
Mrs S had a strong repayment history on her previous loans. 
So, on balance, Im persuaded  that Barclays did enough to check affordability and that the 
loan was affordable.  This is further supported by repayments being made in full and on time 
Ref: DRN10240343for several  years. It was, in my opinion, a change  of circumstances, which made the 
payments unaffordable and this isnt something  Barclays could reasonably  have foreseen.
I know Mrs S thinks Barclays  was wrong  to agree to the loan when she couldnt  afford  the 
repayments in her own right. But given Mrs S and her husbands history  with Barclays,  and 
what Barclays could reasonably have known about  them at the time of the application,  I dont 
think it was unreasonable for them to take their joint income into account.  
Change of circumstances
I understand Mrs Ss circumstances  have now changed and she is no longer able to afford 
the repayments on the loan. Shes  asked  if Barclays  will write off the remainder of the 
money owed.
I sympathise with the situation Mrs S has now found  herself  in. But, given what Ive said 
above, I dont  think it would be fair for me to ask Barclays to clear  the balance  on the loan. 
However, it does need to treat Mrs S fairly  and reasonably in regard to her financial 
difficulties. 
I can see it has currently paused debt collection action on the account and it has provided 
details of its financial difficulties team  who may be able to offer further assistance  to Mrs S. 
Id urge Mrs S to contact this team so it can explore options to support her with the 
outstanding debt. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1024034