K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage  with Halifax  in 2000 and bought  a PPI policy at the 
same time, which covered Mr G.
Mr and Mrs G say they had no idea theyd taken out PPI. And they say theyd have declined 
it if Halifax had given  them the choice because Mr G had good  employee benefits.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Gs complaint didnt  uphold  it. Mr and Mrs G 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs G they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Looking  at the mortgage  application  form Mr and Mrs G completed,  I can 
see theres a section about  PPI and Mr G has signed and dated  it separately  to say he wants 
to take out accident, sickness and unemployment  cover. His signature is in addition  to his 
and Mrs Gs signatures at the end of the form applying for the mortgage. I can also see      
Mr and Mrs G both signed a separate PPI application form. This sets out Mr Gs personal 
details and includes answers to questions about  his eligibility for the PPI. 
Looking this information, I think its likely Halifax discussed  their insurance needs with         
Mr and Mrs G and the documents they signed reflect this. So I think  its likely they agreed to 
the PPI knowing  they had a choice. Mr and Mrs G say had the PPI not been bundled into a 
myriad of information about the mortgage they wouldnt have signed anything. But I wouldve 
expected Mr and Mrs G to read all the documents they were signing with reasonable care 
and to have questioned anything that wasnt right. Ive seen no evidence  they did this in 
relation to the PPI. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it needed to make sure it was right 
for them. Based on what they say of their circumstances  at the time and the policy details 
Ive seen, I think that it was. For example, it doesnt seem Mr G was affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI  so there was nothing to stop him from claiming  the full 
policy benefit if hed needed to. 
Mr G says hed have  got good sick pay and so didnt need  the cover. But the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 24 months for each successful accident, sickness  or unemployment claim 
Mr G made. So this was potentially longer than his full sick pay lasted for. And it wouldve 
paid out in addition to his sick pay  and also if he lost his job. So, especially bearing in mind  
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage was a significant  and long-term financial commitment secured on 
Ref: DRN14937202their home  which was at risk if they fell behind with their mortgage repayments  I think  the 
PPI still gave Mr and Mrs G a useful benefit.
Mr and Mrs G have also said they couldve relied  on Mrs Gs income  and savings if need be. 
But from information Halifax  has given us from the time of the sale,  it looks  as if Mrs G 
wasnt working at the time and theres no evidence of her savings.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr and Mrs G agreed to the 
cover knowing  they didnt have to. And I think it wouldve  been  useful for them  if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  clearer information about the 
PPI wouldve  put them off taking out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs G say they phoned to cancel the cover shortly after taking it out but Mr G was 
told they were outside the cooling off period for the cover and couldnt. Its clear from the 
policy terms, which I think Mr and Mrs G couldve seen,  that the cover could be cancelled 
after 30 days  without penalty.  And, after so long,  its understandable that neither Halifax nor 
Mr G have any detailed information  about the call. What this means is that I dont have 
enough evidence  to make  me think its likely  Halifax  did anything wrong here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1493720