K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complained about a PPI policy we now know her late husband had with a personal 
loan. Although the complaint is from Mrs E and the estate  of the late Mr E, Ill mainly refer to 
Mr E alone,  as he was the only person named on the PPI policy.  Mrs E wasnt  covered by 
the PPI. 
Mrs E says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  this payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
I can see Mr E was sold the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking  out a £2,500  personal 
loan, repayable over 36 months. However,  because of the passage  of time, HSBC  hasnt  
been able to supply the original loan sales documentation. Consequently, Ive had to make 
some assumptions to help work out what  is most  likely to have happened. Mrs E doesnt 
have much information either but her recollection  is that her late husband applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in a bank branch. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium which weve calculated to be around £399 was paid in 
advance by being added to the loan (a single premium) where  it then attracted interest over 
the term of the loan.  The loan was repayable over a 36-month term and the PPI policy term 
matched that of the loan.  The monthly loan repayment was around £102. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr E for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay the late Mr Es monthly loan repayment 
for up to 12 months in the event  of a successful disability claim and for the remainder  of the 
loan in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr E was employed in engineering and wasnt entitled  to any sick pay. We were  
told he didnt have  any other means  of repaying  his loan should he be unable to work.  Ive 
made an assumption he may have been  entitled  to some redundancy pay. We were told 
there were no relevant  ill-health issues at the time of the sale.
Mrs E and the estate  of Mr Es representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial 
representations on his behalf.  I will not restate  them all here, but I have read and considered 
them all carefully. In summary, the representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr E wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Es representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr E about the poor value;
Ref: DRN17472372The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr E and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr E received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint
This sale took place  in August 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs)  overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in September 2004. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN17472373The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering this complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  the late Mr E with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his 
needs and circumstances.
-Whether HSBC gave sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of the late 
Mr E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent he suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs E and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN17472374did Mr E know he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. We no longer have access  to 
the original sales  material but as the sale was in 2001, that isnt unusual;  businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. Nevertheless,  we do know quite a bit about  how these 
sales usually happened because weve seen a lot of similar  cases. Weve  also looked 
carefully at the processes we think took place and the forms used at that time. 
In my experience, there would have been  a choice open to the late Mr E about  either  having  
 or not having - PPI with his loan. I think there would have been  a discussion about the PPI 
and he would have  ticked a yes box, or something  similar,  to confirm he wanted the PPI to 
be added  to his personal loan. So, taking  everything  into account, I think its more likely that 
Mr E knew  the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC concedes this was an advised sale. This means it had to advise Mr E with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr E. I cant say clearly  what happened and there is no record available 
of what the adviser  discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in respect  of a 
sale during a meeting in 2001.  But I think the adviser likely had some  limited information 
about Mrs Es and the late Mr Es financial circumstances, although there  is no specific 
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr E would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations. This might  have  meant the policy  did not fully 
meet his needs.  For example, theres nothing to suggest HSBC considered whether Mr E 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr E given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr E, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr E appears to have  met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr E had a need for the policy   he would not have received any sick pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness and he didnt have any savings he could fall back on. 
The policy would have helped Mr E manage  the consequences was he unable  to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr E.
Ref: DRN17472375-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr E. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Es employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he didnt have  any pre-existing  medical  conditions that could affect 
his ability  to claim. 
-The policy mainly provided  for a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy 
provided flexibility if Mr E decided to repay the loan early  and cancel the policy.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave the late Mr E sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what HSBC  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr E was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr E was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  he would have been given a policy document which explained  the 
rules. I also think  its unlikely  Mr E would have taken  out the policy without any sense of what  
the policy was. And I think Mr E could see that the single premium  was being added  to the 
loan and the total cost was also shown. 
But the lack of direct evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether HSBC gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr E agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr E Im not persuaded HSBC did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr E. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr E all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Es representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like this one. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Es representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr E about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them. 
Ref: DRN17472376Im not persuaded by the representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that HSBC ought  to have done either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Mr E? To what extent  did Mr E suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr E. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr E suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr E would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr E, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. In those circumstances it seems  to me that, whether or not Mr E has 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if HSBC  had explained 
things properly, Mr E would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mrs E says her late husband wouldnt have  taken it out and believes I should  presume  this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr E had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Es circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr E was given about the cost was probably 
clear enough. But the information  about other aspects  of the policy,  such as the limitations  
and exclusions probably wasnt  as clear as it should have been.  Overall, Im not persuaded 
Mr E found  the cost unacceptable.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr E would  get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Es expectations about 
Ref: DRN17472377what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr E thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr E knew  about 12 
months before the start date of the policy and which re-occurred  within the first 12 
months of the cover; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr E be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr E pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him at the time to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr E from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mr E didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and he was in 
permanent employment.  And theres no evidence to suggest he intended to repay the loan 
early. So, I still think  he had some  good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr E would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr E had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr E was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr E would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr E made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr E 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN17472378Mr Es representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr E would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr E 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs E believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that her late husband would 
not have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs E and the estate of Mr E in the position it would have 
been in if Mr E had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay compensation, as that would put Mrs E and 
the estate of Mr E in a better position  than it would have been in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs E thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr E, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach the representative says a court might take if it were to 
find HSBC negligently  misrepresented  the contract  to Mr E and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
Ref: DRN17472379But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs E and the estate of Mr E in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E and the 
estate of Mr E to accept  or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1747237