K820x#14complaint
Mr O says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr O bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr O applied for his credit  card by post.  NatWest  has been able to give me a copy of the 
signed credit  agreement from the time of the sale. In this, there was a separate section for 
PPI that gave a brief description of the product and said for cover,  tick this box. I can see 
Mr O ticked the box and in my opinion I think it was clear he couldve left it blank if he didnt 
want to cover. 
Mr Os representative has mentioned that he wasnt asked to sign separately for the PPI, so 
it wasnt clear  it was a separate product. Looking at the credit agreement, the PPI was set 
out under  a separate  heading, apart from where Mr O signed  to take out the credit  card.  And 
I think it was clear that by ticking the box, Mr O was agreeing to take out a separate product 
to the credit  card. As mentioned above, I think it was clear he couldve declined the PPI if he 
didnt want it. On balance,  I think NatWest made Mr O aware that he had a choice  about  
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to give him enough information for him to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr O doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful  to him. 
Mr O says he wouldve received 6 months  of full pay followed by 6 months  of half pay if he 
was sick. The policy couldve covered him for up to 12 months per claim if he was too ill to 
work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve  been in addition  to his sick 
pay. As it gave him additional protection,  and he received half pay from his employer for a 
period of time, I think  he couldve  found the PPI useful. So I dont think  better information 
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ref: DRN13031532my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1303153