K821x#15complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with how Accidents Happen Assistance Limited (AHA) dealt  with her claim 
following a non-fault road traffic  accident.
background
On 31 May 2018 Mrs G was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident.  She contacted her 
insurance company,  who put her in touch  with AHA, an Accident Management Company 
(AMC). Mrs G instructed  AHA to deal with the damage done  to her car.
Mrs Gs car was repaired, but she was unhappy that:
AHA failed to keep her updated;
There were  long delays in getting  her car repaired;
The first garage AHA instructed to do the repairs breached data protection  
regulations;
She was charged  fuel costs for the hire car she was provided;
There was rubbish left in her car when it was returned from the second  garage 
instructed to do the repairs, and there  was less fuel in the car than when it went in for 
repair; and
He car wasnt repaired correctly by the second garage and was returned  to her with 
more faults.
Mrs G complained to AHA, but she wasnt happy with their response.  So she brought her 
complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  service) for 
investigation. Mrs G has since sold the car, with the additional faults unrepaired,  and she 
said she received  a lower  price as a result.
Our investigator said that, despite AHA being  instructed in 1 June 2018,  Mrs Gs car wasnt  
collected for repair until 6 November  2018. And she didnt think AHA had done enough to try 
and reduce this delay  or kept Mrs G properly  updated about  what  was happening.
Mrs G was asked to provide images of the car to the first garage and was provided with what 
she understood to be an employees private number  to send these to. But the investigator  
said this wasnt the case - Mrs G had been provided  with a business number. So she didnt 
think thered been  a data protection breach and didnt think AHA needed to take any action.
When she returned the hire car, Mrs G received an invoice  for fuel costs.  She raised this 
with AHA who, after speaking to the hire car company, told Mrs G the fuel costs  werent  
payable. But the hire car company sent Mrs G another invoice in error.  The investigator said 
AHA had done what shed expect, and she didnt think they were  responsible  for the error 
made by the hire car company.
The investigator also said that, while Mrs G has received an apology for the rubbish in her 
car, and the fact there  was less fuel, when  it was returned to her; AHA arent responsible  for 
the actions of the second garage. So she didnt think they needed  to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN16017582Finally, the investigator  said the car had been returned to Mrs G without the repairs  being  
completed and with additional  damage.  The second  garage agreed to repair all of this 
damage, with the exception of the peeling paint to the roof rails. However, Mrs G didnt  
agree to this as she thought the actions of the garage had caused the roof rail paint to peel. 
The investigator said AHA raised  this issue  with the garage but, as they arent responsible 
for the garages  actions, they cant make  the garage  repair  the roof rails if the garage doesnt  
take responsibility for the damage to the paintwork.
Given the above, and that Mrs G had sold the car before the additional damage had been 
repaired; the investigator recommended that AHA should pay Mrs G £350  for the trouble and 
upset shed been caused by the lack of updates  and delays. She also said that AHA should  
cover the costs of the faults  with the car, as theyd agreed to do this, other than the issue 
with the roof rails paint.
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator. She said that AHA havent  provided all of the 
information and, without this, it is impossible for you to gain a full understanding of the 
stress this caused me, or the sheer amount of time I spent trying to resolve  the situation. 
Shes also unhappy that this complaint is being  considered under the rules of the Legal  
Ombudsman, which means that AHA arent  being  held responsible for the actions of either of 
the garages of the hire car company.
Mrs G is also unhappy that the investigator  initially told her that AHA would cover the cost of 
the repair to the roof rails,  but they said they wouldnt.
With regards to the compensation, Mrs G doesnt think  that £350 is sufficient for the time it 
took her to deal with the complaint, including her £47 call costs.  And it also doesnt cover the 
additional £200 she spent on fuel over the six weeks she had the hire car, because it wasnt  
provided with a charging lead. So this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused  my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service operates according to a set of rules  made  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). The rules about complaining  to the ombudsman  set out 
when we can, and cant, look into complaints.  These  rules  are set out in a section of the 
FCAs Handbook called Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP). These rules determine, 
amongst other things,  who can bring  a complaint to us and what types of activities we can 
consider complaints about. 
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the FCA, and complaints moved to the Claims Management  
Ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN16017583DISP 2.3.1R says we can only consider a complaint if it relates  to an act or omission  of a 
firm in carrying on regulated activities or certain  other activities (including ancillary 
activities) that are listed. The activities carried out by an AMC - arranging a hire car and 
organising repairs  - arent regulated activities as defined  by DISP, so they arent something 
that can be considered  under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  (of which the 
Claims Management Ombudsman is part).
Because the events Mrs G is complaining  about  took place before the change in regulation,  
we can consider her complaint, but only under the previous rules. So my decision is based  
on the approach  the Claims Management  Regulator  and Legal  Ombudsman wouldve taken. 
Which means Ill only be considering the actions of AHA. And I wont be holding them 
responsible for the actions of the hire car company or the garages.
data protection  issues with the first garage
Due to the distance between Mrs Gs home and the first garage,  she was asked to send 
photographs of the damage  to her car. And they supplied her with a mobile phone  number  
so she could send  these through a messaging  app. Which she did. But the garage indicated  
to Mrs G that this number belonged to an employee of the garage,  and not the garage itself.
Mrs G was rightfully concerned that shed sent personal details to an unknown persons 
private mobile, and she complained to AHA about  this. AHA investigated this with the garage  
and confirmed that the mobile number belonged to the garage, not an employee. They also 
confirmed that the garage had now deleted her personal data. And they arranged  for a 
second garage to repair  the car. 
AHA arent  responsible for the actions of the garage, and the Legal Ombudsman would only 
expect them to pass the complaint on to the garage. Which  they did. They  also arranged for 
Mrs Gs data to be removed  and for a second garage to deal with the repair. So Im satisfied 
with the actions AHA took, and I wouldnt expect them  to do anything  more.
hire car issues
While her car was being repaired  by the second  garage, Mrs G was supplied  with a hybrid 
car by a hire car company. But she wasnt supplied with a charging lead. Which  meant  the 
hire car ran on petrol only and couldnt take advantage of the electric option. And because it 
was a larger and heavier  car than Mrs G had, the fuel costs were  much more  Mrs G has 
said the car cost her an additional £200  in fuel for the six weeks she had it.
The hire car was supplied to Mrs G with half a tank of fuel. And Mrs G says she was told she 
needed to return  the car with the same amount of fuel. Which  she did. But, after the car was 
returned to the hire car company, they invoiced her for half a tank of fuel  they said they 
expected the car to be returned  with a full tank  and then threatened her with legal action if 
she didnt pay this.
AHA arent  responsible for the actions of the hire car company. But the Legal  Ombudsman 
wouldve expected  AHA to pass on Mrs Gs complaints to them.  Ive not seen anything to 
show me that Mrs G complained to AHA about  the missing charging lead while  she had the 
hire car. Given this, AHA werent given the opportunity to try and get the hire car company to 
resolve this issue while  Mrs G had the car. Whats more, Im not aware that Mrs Gs home 
was fitted with the correct charging point  for the car, had she been supplied  with the lead, so 
she couldve  made use of the electric  option.  
Ref: DRN16017584But AHA did contact the hire car company about the post-rental fuel charges. And this 
resulted in these  charges being  waived. So Im satisfied they acted  as expected  by the Legal 
Ombudsman, and I wouldnt expect them to do anything more.
delays and failure to keep  Mrs G updated
Mrs Gs car accident took place on 31 May 2018, and the car didnt go in for repair  until 6 
November 2018.  Having listened  to the calls between Mrs G and AHA,  its clear that Mrs G 
was unhappy  about this. And I agree with the investigator that AHA shouldve done  more to 
try and get the car repaired  sooner.
The calls Ive listened to also show  Mrs G was getting very frustrated with the delays, and 
that AHA didnt call her back on multiple times  when she asked them  to, and when they said 
they would. This was not only in connection  with her claim,  but also in connection with the 
complaints she raised. And the Legal Ombudsman  considered complaint handling as part of 
the overall service  provided by a regulated business, so I can also consider this as part of 
my overall decision.
Mrs G said it cost her £47 in calls to AHA, and Ive seen that she wasnt initially provided  
with AHAs freephone number which wouldve meant these charges wouldnt have occurred. 
The investigator recommended  AHA pay Mrs G £350 compensation for the delays and 
failure to keep her updated. This is in line with what the Legal Ombudsman wouldve 
awarded in similar circumstances, and that award  wouldve included the cost of the calls that 
Mrs G made. Given this, and after reviewing all of the evidence, Ive seen  no compelling 
reason to change  this recommendation.
repairs to car by the second garage
Mrs G has said that, when  she received the car back  from the second garage,  it had fast 
food wrapping  left in it, as well as a leaking milkshake. AHA spoke to the garage about  this, 
and they apologised for whatd happened. But, as stated above, AHA arent  responsible for 
the actions of the second garage. Id expect  AHA to pass Mrs Gs complaint to the garage, 
which they did. They also relayed the garages apology to Mrs G. So AHA did as Id expect.
According to the calls Ive heard, AHA said the car shouldve only taken seven  days to be 
fixed by the second garage. But when it was returned to Mrs G six weeks  later,  she 
complained that not all of the accident  damage had been repaired, and there was more  
damage to the car  specifically  the paint on the roof rails was peeling. 
Ive seen the car was inspected by an independent  engineer on 19 February 2019, and the 
engineer specifically looked at the quality of repairs. The engineer identified a number of 
areas of rectification work  that needed doing, including pain  peeling  on l/h/f roof trim.  And, 
on 3 April 2019, the engineer confirmed the total cost of this work would be £1,565.47.
While this complaint has been  ongoing, Mrs G has sold the car. So its not possible for any 
repairs to now take place. Mrs G said she sold the car for £1,600 - less than its value 
because of the work that needed doing  on it - on 23 November 2020. The investigator has 
looked at the industry standard price guides for Mrs Gs car and the November 2020 
average value  was £2,961. Which means that Mrs G sold the car for £1,361 less than the 
average market value.
Ref: DRN16017585When the second garage agreed to repair the car, this initially included the damage to the 
roof rails paint. But the garage then withdrew  their offer to repair  the roof rails, as they said 
they didnt cause this damage. While I appreciate that Mrs G feels  very strongly about this 
point, I havent  seen anything evidence that convinces me that the peeling  paint of the roof 
rails was as a direct  result of anything the garage  did. And, as AHA arent responsible for the 
actions of the garage, theyre not responsible for the garage  withdrawing their offer to fix the 
roof rails, even  though  this was after the offer was made to Mrs G.
But, as Mrs G has sold the car, and the garages  offer to repair it his is no longer possible, 
Im satisfied that Mrs G should  be paid the cost of these repairs.  And AHA should pay this to 
her as previously agreed, then recover the money from the garage. But the cost of the 
repairs shouldnt include the cost of the repairs to the roof rails,  as the garage dont take 
responsibility for this, and theres no compelling evidence  to show  me that they should.
The purpose of any remedy is to put someone  back in the same position  they wouldve  been 
if the poor service hadnt happened   not to put someone in a better  position. So, as Mrs G 
sold the car for £1,361  less than the average  market value, then the amount shes paid in 
lieu of the repairs  shouldnt exceed £1,361. Otherwise she wouldve received more than the 
car was worth. 
Looking at the costs of repair, its not possible to separate out the cost of repairing the paint 
of the roof rails. And weve cant obtain any updated costs excluding  this, as Mrs G no longer 
has the car. Because of this, I need to consider  whats fair in the circumstances. 
The independent engineers report identifies  six areas of work needed, four of which  relate to 
the paintwork.  The total cost of the paint for the four jobs is £551.26, while the total cost of 
the labour for the six jobs is £684.48. So Im satisfied its reasonable to say that the cost of 
the paintwork  on the roof rails would be one-sixth of the labour cost plus one-fourth of the 
paint cost; a total of £251.90. And this needs to be deducted from the overall costs of repair.
So the costs of the repairs to the car, less the paintwork to the roof rails,  wouldve been 
£1,313.57. As this is less than the £1,361  market  value  loss Mrs G made  when selling the 
car, Im satisfied that she should  be paid the cost of repairs. Whats more,  the Legal  
Ombudsman wouldnt normally award  interest  on a payment like this so, in keeping  with their 
rules, I wont  do so either.
Putting things  right
AHA should pay Mrs G:
£1,313.57  in lieu of the repairs needed  to her car, and
an additional £350 for the significant distress  and inconvenience she was caused by 
the delays in her car going in for repair, and for the lack of updates and calls back  
from AHA.
Ref: DRN16017586my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Accidents Happen Assistance  
Limited must  follow my directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 June  2021.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1601758