K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that a standing  order payment into their Bank of Scotland  plc trading 
as Halifax has been rejected.
background
Mr and Mrs S set up the standing order payment for £50 a month from their account  with a 
bank I will call R. They say that the standing  order  amount was increased but then found 
out Halifax hadnt credited the correct  account. Mr and Mrs S say they have lost about 
£4,450 as well as a loss of interest  and this situation has caused  them  stress and 
inconvenience. They would  like the money  returned  and compensation  for whats happened.
Halifax says its sent out regular  account  statements which  show  that money wasnt  paid into 
the account. It says if there was a problem  then the money would have been sent back  to R. 
It also says it would be for R to trace the payment and to advise Mr and Mrs S if there  was a 
problem.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaints about  R and Halifax to us. Our investigator looked 
into both complaints and found that the standing order payments hadnt been  accepted  by 
Halifax and had been returned to Mr and Mrs Ss account with R on the same  day. The 
investigator thought  Mr and Mrs S should  have been  aware  there was a problem from 2015 
as the money  didnt  appear on the annual statements from Halifax.  He also thought that 
there may have been a problem with why the payment was returned  and recommended  
Halifax pay £50 compensation.
Halifax doesnt accept  that view and says it wouldnt know  that the standing order  was being 
sent back as the money didnt reach the account.  It says it would be up to R to tell Mr and 
Mrs S that the standing  order payment  wasnt being processed.
Mr and Mrs S have  also asked that their complaint  be looked  at by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said that I came to the provisional view that Halifax  hadnt 
made a mistake here and wasnt responsible for what happened.
I said that I didnt think  there  was any dispute  now that Mr and Mrs S didnt lose the money 
as they originally thought. And that the investigator had explained that the money was 
returned to their account on the same day as the standing order was set up. I also thought 
that Halifax sent out annual account  statements. So I said Mr and Mrs S ought to have 
noticed that from 2015 that the standing order payments were being re-credited to their R 
account and the Halifax statements showed  that money wasnt being paid into that account.
I didnt think it was clear why the payments  were  returned and I had no doubt Mr and Mrs S 
would remain frustrated  by that. But I didnt think Halifax could have done any more  as it 
would have been unaware  of the problem with the standing order.  I also thought  that it would 
have been up to R to trace the payment  and to advise Mr and Mrs S if there was a problem.
Overall I accepted that there were  unanswered questions here. But my provisional view was 
that Halifax would have been  unaware  of what was happening and I said I could not fairly 
and reasonably order it to pay any compensation to Mr and Mrs S.
Ref: DRN16244432Halifax and Mr and Mrs S have replied to my provisional view but do not wish to provide any 
further comment or evidence.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
overall view as I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1624443