K820x#14complaint
Miss I complains that shes paid unfair and extreme charges over the past six years on her 
HSBC UK Bank Plc current account whilst  she was struggling financially.  She wants them  
refunded.
background
HSBC said in its final response that the Supreme Court ruled some years ago that overdraft 
charges were legal.  It takes its obligations very seriously and writes to customers if it thinks 
theyre showing signs of financial  difficulty.  The charges on Miss Is account  were applied 
correctly and in line with its policy. It isnt able to refund them.  
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
HSBC applied the charges to Miss Is account in line with its terms and conditions.  
And its not obliged  to refund them when  someone is experiencing financial difficulty. 
Miss I says she told HSBC some years  ago that she was in financial difficulty. And in 
2012 it waived  £90 of charges as a goodwill  gesture. That was acting 
sympathetically. 
It isnt for a bank  to actively  look for signs of financial difficulty  its up to the 
customer to make it aware of them. Here  theres nothing to show Miss I contacted 
HSBC again about  financial difficulty until she made this complaint in June 2018. So, 
HSBC didnt have  the opportunity to offer her help and assistance before then. Its 
subsequently offered  to increase Miss Is overdraft and thats a way of offering 
assistance. Miss I can refuse  the increase if she doesnt want  or need it.
HSBC sent Miss I various  letters in 2012 and 2013 making her aware shed 
exceeded her overdraft facility and asking  if it could assist. In 2014 it also began 
sending text alerts every time she exceeded her overdraft limit. Theres  nothing  to 
show Miss I reached  out to HSBC in response  to these letters  or texts.
HSBC hasnt made an error in applying the charges and has treated Miss I fairly. And 
she cant reasonably  ask it to refund any charges to her.
Miss I doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says she still believes  
that in most of the transactions she was charged for, the charges were disproportionate  to 
the amounts she exceeded her overdraft limit by. She shouldnt  have been  allowed to get so 
much in debt and wasnt made aware  of the implications of doing so. The stress of being  in 
debt has affected  her health and left her in financial hardship when older.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Miss I says the charges applied to her account  were  disproportionate to the amounts she 
had exceeded  her overdraft by. But throughout HSBC made Miss I aware  of what  its charges 
were if specified events occurred. And I think it applied them correctly to her account in line 
Ref: DRN15221642its terms and conditions.  If Miss I had considered the charges were  unacceptable to her she 
couldve also sought to bank elsewhere  if shed  wished to.
When HSBC was made aware  of Miss Is financial difficulties in around 2012  it appears to 
have also acted positively  and sympathetically  by making a refund of some  charges.
I also think HSBC communicated with Miss I appropriately and reasonably,  both by letter  and 
later text alert, when  she exceeded her overdraft  limit and it offered to provide more 
assistance if shed  got in contact with it. But she didnt do so until 2018.
Overall, although I recognise  Miss Is frustration I dont think  HSBC  has done  anything wrong 
and I cant reasonably require it to do any more  than its already done including making any 
refund of charges to Miss I as shed like. And I dont think I see any compelling  reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
Id remind HSBC of its obligation  to treat Miss I positively and sympathetically if she remains 
in financial difficulties.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1522164