K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that a car she was financing through  Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc 
(Santander) was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Shed like to reject it.
background
Ms M took receipt of a used car in May 2018.  The car was four years  old at the point of 
supply and had completed 26,762 miles. Ms M financed the deal through  a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
But within a month Ms M had problems with the car. She had some  problems fixed  but a 
ticking noise from the gearbox couldnt  be rectified.
An independent inspection was arranged by Santander and the inspector confirmed that 
there was a rattling noise above  3,000rpm  and a gearbox bearing noise in second and third 
gears. 
It was agreed that a new gearbox was required to resolve the problem. The dealership 
ordered the gearbox but Ms M, whilst initially  prepared to accept the repair, subsequently 
learnt it may be possible to reject  the car and she therefore told Santander she wished  to do 
so.
Santander didnt  think that was reasonable. They said it was clear Ms M accepted  the repair 
and it was only fair to allow them to complete it. They  explained that the law supported  this 
view.
Our investigator didnt  agree with Santander.  He thought it was clear that, despite several 
attempts to fix the car, Santander had failed.  And he said Ms M therefore had the right to 
reject the vehicle regardless of whether a spare part had been ordered.  He didnt blame  
Ms M for changing her mind on the repair as he said she wasnt aware of her right to reject 
the vehicle until she visited the Citizens Advice Bureau. He therefore thought that Santander 
should allow  Ms M to reject the car.
But Santander disagreed. They reaffirmed their position that Ms M had told the dealership 
she would  accept a repair and they said it was therefore unfair of her to change her mind.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will be disappointing  for Santander so please 
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN17982132Ms M acquired  her car under a conditional  sale agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Santander are 
responsible. 
Theres no dispute that theres  a fault with the car and that Santander need to put this right. 
What is disputed is whether the car should be repaired  or Ms M should  be allowed to reject 
it.
There is a case for allowing Santander  to repair the vehicle. The relevant  law, the Consumer 
Rights Act (2015), says that:
A consumer who requires or agrees to the repair of goods cannot require the trader to 
replace them, or exercise the short term right to reject, without giving the trader a reasonable 
time to repair them
So, once a repair is accepted as a way of resolving matters, the business  should be given an 
opportunity to complete the repair.
The dealership tells us its already acquired the gearbox so, on one hand, it may be right to 
allow them to fit it.
But Im required to decide what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances and here I think  
its fairer to allow Ms M to reject the car.
I say that because Ms M doesnt  appear  to have been presented with all of her options when 
she visited the dealership and I think, especially given that this was the third time a repair 
had failed, she should have been  made  aware of her right to reject the car.
Ms M reported the issue  to the dealership  within the first 30 days  and she could have 
invoked her short term right to reject  the car. She allowed them  an opportunity  to fix it but 
that failed. Ms M has explained that she only discovered she could reject the vehicle when 
she visited the Citizens Advice Bureau.  It seems reasonable to suggest that, if shed been 
told of her rights earlier, she would have taken  that option then and not proceeded with the 
repair. It doesnt seem fair to disadvantage her because she was unaware of the relevant 
legislation.
Ms M also tells us that some additional  problems have  arisen  with the car since the last 
repair attempt. These werent investigated  by the independent engineer and refer to a noise 
from the air conditioning; a further screeching  noise and a noise  in second and third gear 
which I assume is related  to the gearbox  problems. These issues  have not yet been 
investigated by Santander but I think its fair to say that if they were and were found to be 
present it would give more weight to Ms Ms argument to reject. Resolving the gearbox 
issue, it seems, would be unlikely to resolve  all of the issues  Ms M is now complaining of 
and  relevant legislation does not give Santander  one chance to repair  each separate 
component but just one chance to repair the car.
So I think Ms M should be allowed to reject  the vehicle. 
Ref: DRN17982133my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no cost to Ms M
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date it was paid until the 
settlement
refund  all monthly instalments and pay 8% simple interest from the time they were  
paid until the time of settlement
pay Ms M £250 to compensate her for the trouble and upset  shes  experienced
remove any adverse information  that may have  been added  to Ms Ms credit file in 
relation to this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1798213