K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Background
In 2002, Santander sold Mr and Mrs M a monthly premium PPI policy  to protect  their joint 
mortgage repayments if Mr M was unable to work  because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Santander doesnt still have all the paperwork that was completed at the time of this sale. I 
dont find that surprising given how long ago it took place. And I note what Mr and Mrs M 
have said about  not knowing the PPI had been  added. But, from experience  of how 
Santander sold PPI in its branches at the time, I think Mr and Mrs M would have had to 
complete a separate application  form before  the PPI was added. 
Overall, I think its likely Mr and Mrs M would have  known  the PPI was optional  and that it 
was only added after theyd agreed to take it. I can understand  if they dont recall this now, 
so many years later.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. That meant Santander  needed to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  
the PPI it recommended  was right for them in any case. 
For example, from what Mr and Mrs M have told us about their circumstances, Mr M was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy  excluded  or 
limited cover  for either. And Ive no reason to think Mr and Mrs M would have found the 
monthly premium unaffordable.  
It could be that Mr M was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer  for a time. But the 
PPI benefits were considerable and would  have paid out for up to 12 months per claim. The 
policy covered him for unemployment too. Considering Mr and Mrs M had entered  into a 
long-term financial commitment that was secured  against their home, I think theyd have 
valued the security  the PPI provided.  
Ref: DRN17541842Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs M enough information about the PPI to allow  
them to decide  for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information 
Santander gave  them could have been  better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I 
dont think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think  better  information  would have 
affected their decision to take it. I think theyd still have thought it gave  them a useful benefit  
at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mr M have  lost out because of how 
Santander sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1754184