K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI)  declined to pay her claim on her motor  
insurance policy following  the theft of her car. She wants it to pay her claim. 
background
Miss P advertised her car for sale and a potential buyer stole  it from her. Miss P said hed 
snatched the keys from her aggressively  and driven off. UKI investigated the claim and 
thought the car had been taken following Miss P allowing a test drive.  So it declined  the 
claim.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
policy had an exclusion for theft by trickery. Miss P had provided CCTV footage of the 
incident. But she thought this didnt  show threat  or force. So she thought UKI could fairly rely 
on the exclusion to decline  the claim. Miss P said she hadnt shown distress so as not to 
frighten her children. She said the case was going  to court based on the same evidence  but 
the car hadnt  been recovered.  The investigator  said shed consider further footage  from 
before or after the theft. But I cant see that Miss P has provided that. 
Miss P replied  that as violence had been used to steal the car, it wasnt  fraud or trickery but 
robbery. Shed provided pictures of her injured hand. She said the thieves had been  tried for 
robbery. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the loss of her car and UKIs  decision to decline the claim has had a 
significant financial impact  for Miss P. I can understand  that the theft and UKIs  decision 
must be very distressing for her. Our approach in cases  like this is to consider whether the 
insurers acted fairly  and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
UKI relied  on the following  policy exclusion  and condition to decline the claim:
"We will not cover loss or damage to your car as a result  of someone acquiring it by fraud  or 
trickery while pretending to be a buyer".
General Conditions
6. Taking care of your car
You and any person  who is covered  by this policy must
 take all reasonable steps to protect your car and its contents  from loss or damage.
I think these are common terms in motor insurance policies, and I dont find them unusual or 
unreasonable. 
Miss P said two people  came to view her car, but they werent intending to buy it. But I think 
the people responded  to Miss Ps advertised  sale and so I think  it was reasonable for UKI to 
consider them as potential buyers. 
Ref: DRN13374742UKI has provided the police report of the theft. I can see that when Miss P initially  reported 
the theft she said the thief had asked  to test drive the car and had left her with his keys to his 
car (which had been previously stolen)  and driven off. In a further statement to UKI two 
hours later she said the thieves were sitting in her car but shed declined a test drive  due to 
their age. She said her children were in the house  so she couldnt drive  them  in the car 
herself. Miss P said the thief then snatched the keys from her hand cutting her finger. 
After Miss P reported her claim to UKI it sent an investigator to interview her. Miss P also 
said she had CCTV footage of the incident. UKI was concerned that there  were  
inconsistencies between  Miss Ps accounts  and the CCTV evidence  shed  provided:
The footage  didnt show the keys being snatched from Miss P; 
Miss P had moved  away from the car when she said shed always  been  standing 
near it;
Miss P wasnt visibly distressed and there  was no sign of her hand  being injured, as 
shed stated; 
The car was carefully reversed and driven  away without extreme  acceleration. 
UKI was also concerned  that Miss P was only able to provide excerpts  of the CCTV footage 
and this had been cropped. Miss P had told UKI that she had two minutes of footage 
showing the complete  event. But UKI couldnt  see the full event. What  it saw was footage of 
Miss P speaking to the thief who was sitting in her car and then going  back a second  time to 
speak to him further. 
Miss P said it was unfair  for UKI to rely on just the CCTV footage. She said it was short and 
unclear. But I think  Miss P had opportunity to provide the full footage as requested by UKI on 
several occasions, but she didnt do so. 
Miss P said she hadnt appeared  distressed as she didnt want  to frighten her children. But I 
think without the complete  CCTV footage  there was insufficient evidence  to support this. 
Miss P said the police had taken the thieves to court based  on the CCTV evidence. But I 
think UKI didnt disagree that the car had been  stolen.  It declined  the claim because theft by 
trickery is excluded. I think it reasonably thought the evidence showed  that Miss P had 
allowed the thieves  to test drive  her car and theyd stolen it. 
And so I think UKI reasonably investigated the claim and concluded from the evidence  that 
Miss P voluntarily  handed  over control  of her car and didnt take reasonable care to protect  it 
from theft. So I think UKI is justified in relying on the policy exclusion and condition to decline 
the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1337474