K820x#14complaint
Miss Ps complaint is about  inaccurate  valuation information about  her Enterprise Investment 
Scheme (EIS) investment on the investment  portal provided by St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (St. Jamess).
background
The problem arose around December 2017  and, it appears, was not resolved until around 
the middle of 2018. Miss P used the portal  to access her St. Jamess Wealth  Account (WA),  
which held the EIS. In the main, she has presented the complaint as follows:
St. Jamess was responsible for the accuracy of information on its portal, such  
accuracy was one of the reasons she opened  the WA.
It did not rectify the problem over many  months  despite being aware of its existence. 
It took no action until she requested that the EIS figures be removed from the portal.
Her investment  decisions  over this period were affected by the inaccurate 
information. The matter also caused her extreme stress.
St. Jamess says the problem in the portal  was caused by inaccurate  information 
feed from the EIS provider but an explanation  of the root cause of the inaccurate 
information remains outstanding. In addition,  St. Jamess should take responsibility 
for its inaction in the matter but has not done so. It made a goodwill offer to her of 
£1,000, which she declined as she considers it insufficient compensation for the 
stress she endured  and for the financial loss (around £20,000)  that she estimated  
upon St. Jamess request  she incurred.
In the main,  St. Jamess position has been presented as follows:
The EIS provider conceded, on record, full responsibility for the matter;  the EIS 
provider expressly conveyed this to Miss P and offered her compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to her; St. Jamess has no responsibility for the inaccurate 
information; information on the portal about Miss Ps other  investments  was accurate, 
the problem was limited  only to the EIS.
St. Jamess was aware of the problem in December 2017 but it considered  it 
reasonable to allow  the EIS provider a period  of time to reconcile and correct the 
inaccurate data  in order  to ensure  it was carefully and correctly done.
Miss Ps adviser was aware of the problem from the outset  and was engaged, 
throughout, in keeping  her informed about efforts  to resolve it. In addition  she had 
accurate valuation information available  directly from the EIS provider and held two 
review meetings with her adviser (in which investments could have  been  discussed 
and made) during the relevant period. For these reasons  it does not accept that her 
investment decisions  were affected  by the problem.
Its goodwill offer was reasonable and exceeds this services  guidelines for trouble 
and upset awards for cases like Miss Ps.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and broadly agreed with the points  made 
by St. Jamess.  She did not consider it was responsible for the inaccurate information. She 
said there is evidence  of its effort in getting the EIS provider to apologise  to Miss P and said 
its offer of £1,000 does indeed exceed what this service would suggest in the case.
Miss P disagreed with this outcome and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision on the 
complaint and, as part of that decision,  she asked  the ombudsman  to address the following:
Ref: DRN12216882St. Jamess responsibility for the accuracy  of the valuation  information on its portal.
St. Jamess responsibility for its delay in removing the valuation information  from the 
portal.
Would an account holder have certainty of knowledge about the value of an account 
if the account information showed  a particular valuation whilst the account provider 
said the valuation  was something  else?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the course  of addressing the points raised by Miss P, I consider  the following to be 
relevant context:
There is evidence from the EIS provider confirming that the inaccurate  valuation 
information was wholly  its fault. I do not consider that this element is or can 
reasonably be in dispute. This clarifies the cause of the inaccurate information  on St. 
Jamess portal  it resulted from the inaccurate  information feed from the EIS 
provider. 
Miss P says the cause of the inaccurate  information feed remains  unclear. She put 
this to her adviser during his efforts  to clarify  and help resolve the problem.  There is 
an email from him to her in May 2018  in which he explains that it was an error by the 
EIS provider involving  the use of the wrong  numbers (for the cost of the investment) 
and it did not involve a physical transfer of funds. In the absence  of evidence  that this 
explanation is incorrect, it appears to be the explanation that addresses  Miss P query  
about the cause of the inaccurate information  feed.
As St. Jamess has argued,  there  is evidence that accurate  valuation information was 
available directly  from the EIS provider, that Miss Ps adviser engaged with her from 
the outset and thereafter about the problem, and until it was resolved. 
All parties  Miss P, her adviser,  St. Jamess and the EIS provider  were aware of 
the problem from the outset and thereafter  until it was resolved. There  is evidence 
that St. Jamess complained to and pursued  the matter with the EIS provider. There 
is evidence of ongoing engagement, during the relevant period and between the 
advisers firm and St. Jamess,  towards  addressing the problem. 
There is also email evidence (from  January 2018) in which St. Jamess explained to 
the advisers firm that it sought help from its IT function to address the problem at its 
end  pending receipt of the correct  data feed from the EIS provider  but there was 
a three  months  waiting  time, so waiting for receipt of the correct data feed was 
considered the quicker option  at the time. There is also email evidence (from March  
2018) within St. Jamess (and copied to the advisers firm) in which  it appears to have 
acknowledged that inaccurate  information  on its portal is inappropriate and in which  it 
sought to explore  the possibility of manually creating a correct account  for Miss P. By 
April 2018 St. Jamess had written  to the advisers firm to say the matter had been  
resolved based  on receipt of the data feed from the EIS provider  that it had been 
waiting for.
Ref: DRN12216883In response to Miss Ps complaint issues (and the points she highlighted) I find as follows:
St. Jamess was responsible for the accuracy of information  about the valuation  of 
her investment  it presented on its portal. However  it was not responsible for the 
inaccurate price feed received by the portal,  so this qualifies its responsibility for the 
information on the portal. It did not cause the inaccuracy, so the issue  is about 
whether (or not) its reaction to the inaccuracy was appropriate.  
It appears that St. Jamess did not address  the problem in the manner  that Miss P 
wanted or expected, but that does not mean  it was inactive or that it did not react 
appropriately to the problem. It was engaged  throughout,  with the adviser and with 
the EIS provider in what appears to have been  a combined effort to address the 
problem. Despite that combined effort, it appears  that only the EIS provider was in 
direct control of the resolution  that is, correction of its data feed  so St. Jamess  
was arguably limited in what  it could  have achieved. As I noted above,  it looked into 
getting IT assistance internally to try to address  the problem at its end. At the time 
and without being able to foresee  that the EIS providers accurate price  feed would 
be delayed, it reasonably considered that the quicker option  would  be to await the 
accurate price feed.  Shortly after it queried  the idea of manually  creating  a correct 
account for Miss P the accurate price feed eventually arrived.  I accept Miss Ps point 
about removal of the EIS figures from St. Jamess portal,  it would have been helpful 
and perhaps logical to do that at the outset as opposed to waiting for her request to 
do so months later.  However, overall,  on balance  and for the reasons I have 
summarised I do not accept the argument that St. Jamess  reaction to the problem 
was inappropriate.
It has been suggested (or argued) that the conflict between the inaccurate portal 
valuation information and the alternative  (accurate) valuation  information created 
confusion about which information  to rely upon.  I disagree. All parties  were  aware  the 
portal valuation  information  and the price feed it was based on were  inaccurate.  The 
implication that arises from this is that the portal information was known by all, 
including Miss P, to be unreliable.  Whereas,  the valuation information provided 
manually and directly from the EIS provider  pending its resolution of the price feed 
 was accurate  and would have been reliable.
In the face of evidence that Miss P had access to accurate valuation  information for 
her EIS investment and had access (including  ongoing email correspondence)  to her 
adviser during  the relevant period, I am not persuaded that the price feed problem 
affected her investment  decisions. In addition,  I have  not seen a persuasive basis for 
the financial loss that has been  alleged. Overall, I do not consider there  are grounds 
to uphold Miss Ps complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept  or reject my decision 
before 26 October  2019.
Ref: DRN12216884Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1221688