K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited is pursuing  him for three debts 
which he says it cannot prove are his, and about related issues.
background
Three debts were assigned to Link Financial by third parties  in 2008 and 2009. Mr W made 
token payments of £5 a month towards  each account. But in 2019 he asked Link Financial 
for proof that these debts  were indeed his. He said he would not make any more  payments 
unless he was shown  the original credit  agreements with his signature on them.  When  Link 
Financial failed to provide  these, he brought this complaint to our Service.  He also said that 
as he had been married before the debts were assigned, he wanted  to know  if his former 
wife was jointly liable for any of the debts, since in that event he thought  he should only be 
liable for half of that debt.
Link Financial said that the debts were originally an overdraft on a current account  and a 
credit card with the same third party, and another credit card with another third party. It 
provided the names of the third parties, the original account numbers associated with each 
debt, and the dates they were assigned. It also provided a copy  of Mr Ws signature on one 
of the credit  card agreements, dated  2005. It was unable  to provide signed agreements  for 
the other debts, but our investigator thought that Link Financial was under no obligation to do 
that, under the relevant regulations. She said that as all of the original credit agreements 
were more than six years  old, she would not expect Link Financial or the original creditors  to 
have kept them. She said one of the debts had been  a joint account,  but as Mr W had been 
jointly and severally  liable  Link Financial was entitled to pursue  him for the whole debt if it 
wanted to. So she did not uphold this complaint.
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He insisted he was entitled to see his signature 
as proof  that he owed  the debts. He said he had not questioned the debts when Link 
Financial had first begun to pursue them due to the stress caused by his divorce around that 
time.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr Ws explanation  for why he did not challenge the debts in 2008  and 2009. 
Divorce is one of the most stressful experiences one can endure, and so in those 
circumstances it may well seem easier  to agree to make small token payments for a while,  
rather than start a battle  on another front.
However, I can see that in November  2015 Link Financial wrote  to Mr W to tell him the 
names of the original  lenders and the original account numbers  for each  debt. And in August 
2016 one of the original  lenders wrote to him to confirm that it had assigned  a credit  card 
debt to Link Financial  in January 2009,  and gave him the credit card number, which  matched 
the number given to him by Link Financial. It is not their fault that by then too much time had 
passed for them to provide Mr W with all of the original credit  agreements,  or even with the 
notices of assignment. Generally, business dont have to retain records for more than six 
years.
Ref: DRN15656462Given the evidence  already provided by both of the original lenders and by Link Financial, 
I think it is more  likely than not that all three of these debts are indeed Mr Ws debts. That is 
because both lenders have verified that they sold his debts with them  to Link Financial, by 
providing his signature or a matching account  number.  I understand why Mr W would feel 
more certain about this if he could be shown a full complement of three signatures,  but after 
so much time having passed I dont think certainty  can always  be achieved. In any case, 
I think it is fair and reasonable for me to decide  this issue on the balance of probabilities (as 
this is the civil burden of proof in the courts), rather than beyond  reasonable doubt.
The law does not require  a lender to keep the original  credit agreement indefinitely.  The 
regulations which were cited by our investigator are the Consumer Credit (Cancellation 
Notices and Copies of Documents) Regulations  1983. Regulation  3(2)(b)  specifically  states 
that when a lender sends a customer a copy of a credit agreement pursuant to the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974,  it may send  a copy which does not include the signature.1 So 
there is no obligation to serve the original signed  document. I have taken this into account in 
deciding how much evidence is enough  to satisfy  me that these debts are Mr Ws and are 
being properly  pursued.
The Limitations Act does  not apply here, because Mr W has made payments towards the 
debts within  the last six years.
Finally, a joint account holders liability for the account is not capped at half of the balance.  
Each account holder is jointly and severally liable for all of it (provided that the total amount 
collected from both account holders does not exceed the total debt  i.e. the creditor  cant  
collect his money twice). The original  bank was not obliged  to collect equal amounts from 
both account holders,  and neither is Link Financial.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
1 https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1983/1557/regulation/3/made
Ref: DRN1565646