K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain they were mis-sold Life and Critical Illness  Cover (CIC), along with 
Mortgage Payment  Protection (MPP)  within the plan, by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
In summary,  they say:
They were told the Life and CIC plan was a condition  of their mortgage.  
They thought  the MPP  policy was Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) and couldnt  
understand why it had a 13 month  deferral  period.  
They didnt need these policies as they had cover in place at the time and couldve 
had new policies to cover any shortfall.
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The Life and CIC plan and the MPP policy were suitable in the circumstances and 
not mis-sold. 
In relation to the Life and CIC plan, it was recorded that Mr and Mrs C were  taking 
out a mortgage of £195,000 over 22 years  they were switching from an endowment 
mortgage to a repayment mortgage   and although they had existing life cover  in 
place at the time, it was insufficient to cover their new mortgage.   
It was recorded  that they had existing policies in place at the time  that they couldve 
used  but that they would still need  top-up policies to cover the balance of the 
mortgage. 
Additional policies were likely to be expensive because the rates had gone down 
since Mr and Mrs C had taken out their policies. So it was probably  better  to have  a 
single plan covering the mortgage rather than multiple policies. 
The adviser made sure that Mr and Mrs C were accepted on the new plan before 
they cancelled  their existing policies. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs C say, theres  nothing to suggest  the policies were  
compulsory. 
Section three of their mortgage  offer letter states: 
oIt is recommended  that you consider applying for adequate cover  to protect 
your mortgage and mortgage related  payments in the event of accident  
sickness or voluntary  unemployment in the future.
The MPP policy isnt PPI. Although it was designed to pay a monthly sum towards 
the mortgage for the period that they were unable to work, it was a long term income 
protection policy. 
The MPP policy is normally set up to pay from when sick pay is stopped which  is 
usually six months.  In this instance  the payment was deferred to 13 months because 
Mr C had a sickness policy that would pay out for 12 months. The 12 month deferral 
makes it less expensive. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicators conclusions. In summary, Mr C made the 
following key points:
The plan was a Mortgage PPI policy including CIC. 
They were advised to cancel all policies in place of the single plan. 
Ref: DRN10826962There was no other  policy which ran in conjunction with the ones which  covered 
either unemployment or sickness.  They  were only advised to keep the 
endowments as the maturity was imminent at the time.  
No other  policy  would pay out over the 13 months because there wasnt  one, 
because they were advised to cancel them all. So why was the MPP policy 
deferred for 12 months?
The sections regarding the buildings insurance  was confusing and unclear. 
Our adjudicator having considered the points wasnt persuaded to change  his mind. Taking 
each point in turn, in summary,  he said:
The MPP policy wasnt a PPI policy. It was cover  that would pay their mortgage 
payments after 13 months until the life assured was well enough to go back  to work. 
The documentation  provided explained why the existing policies were cancelled.  
oThe rates had reduced, so in effect Mr and Mrs C would be paying  less by 
getting a single new plan rather than keeping their old policies and topping  
up.
If there  was no other policy in place at the time (despite  what was written)  Mr and 
Mrs C shouldnt have signed the documentation  confirming that information 
contained within it was correct.  
The MPP policy usually has three  to six month  deferment period, which  normally  ties 
in with employment cover. As it was documented that an existing policy would pay 
out for 12 months it wouldve been  suitable   as well as cost effective  to defer the 
cover for this period. 
Only buildings  insurance was compulsory, this was common  with most bank and 
building societies lending  money  at the time. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs C have provided  detailed  submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read 
and considered carefully. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by them and Aviva,  and reach what  
I think is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I dont think theres any dispute that Life and CIC was needed in respect  of Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage, and according to Avivas records they had some  cover in place at the time. 
So, the primary issue for me to consider is whether (or not) the advice to cancel their existing 
policies and take out a single Life and CIC plan was suitable.
Ref: DRN10826963On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs C say I think  the 
advice to do this was suitable.
Im satisfied that although Mr and Mrs C had some cover in place at the time it was 
insufficient to cover  the whole of their mortgage  therefore they needed  greater cover  in any 
event.  
An option  wouldve been  to leave any existing cover  in place  at the time and take out new 
life and CIC cover for the balance of the mortgage.  But in the circumstances I dont think  the 
advice to take out a single Life and CIC plan in respect of the whole of the mortgage,  in the 
place of multiple plans,  was unsuitable. 
I note that as a result  of rate changes (since they took out their policies) it was cheaper for 
them to just get a single  Life and CIC plan. In other words, it would seem uneconomical and 
unnecessary to pay for multiple policies to cover what  are essentially the different parts  of 
the same  mortgage.  
In terms of the MPP policy I dont think it was an unreasonable recommendation as it 
covered Mr and Mrs C if they were unable  to work  through  long term accident or sickness  
which they werent covered for at the time. But it seems Mr Cs more concerned about the 12 
month deferral period.  
Its not entirely clear  why he doesnt understand the reason for the deferral as it was made 
reasonably clear to him and Mrs C in the documentation provided.  I note it was recorded:
The mortgage  payment  protection option  is suitable  for you as the mortgage  
payments and associated costs will be paid by (name of insurer)  should you be 
incapacitated due to illness or accident.
And
For Mr C (name anonymised) I have recommended  that the deferment  period is 13 
months because he has other provisions  which will provide income for the first year. 
On balance I think the advice by Aviva  to defer the start date of the MPP policy  by 13 
months was suitable  in the circumstances and was done in good  faith in an effort to take 
account of the cover  Mr C still had and save him some money. 
I note that Mr and Mrs C were the only two people who had the authority to cancel their 
existing policies. Its possible they made  a mistake and cancelled Mr Cs existing income 
protection. Notwithstanding  the advice  to cancel their existing policies, the recommendation 
was made  in light of them  keeping the income protection.  I note that was the whole point of 
the 12 month deferral.    
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs C say, I think its 
unlikely they wouldve been advised to defer  the MPP policy just because  it saved  money 
and then told to cancel the existing  income protection policy along with all the other existing 
polices. 
I note Mr and Mrs C say they were confused by what the clauses said but Im satisfied they 
made reasonably clear  that options  were available to cover their mortgage  but no extra  
insurance or protection  was necessary.  
Ref: DRN10826964I appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs concerns  with the situation and recognise they will be 
disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. But having given the 
matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should  be 
upheld. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1082696