K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) gave her a loan that she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
background
Miss P took out a £200 loan with Mr Lender in April 2013. She was due to repay the loan in 9 
days. In the event, her financial situation  meant she had to roll over the loan five times  in 
other words, on five occasions, Mr Lender allowed her to keep deferring the payment to a 
later date, which added to the overall loan cost.  
And when  she still couldnt  pay, Mr Lender sold the debt to a debt agency. 
Miss P says Mr Lender was irresponsible to lend to her and she asks that it refunds  interest  
and charges and removes  information  about the loan from her credit file.
An adjudicator considered  Miss Ps complaint and upheld it in part. He didn't  think  hed seen 
enough to say that Mr Lender had acted unfairly  when it provided  the loan in the first place. 
But he thought  that Mr Lender  shouldnt  have allowed Miss P to roll over the loan more than 
three times. So our adjudicator felt that Mr Lender  should refund interest  and charges Miss P 
incurred when the loan was rolled  over for the fourth and fifth times, and pay interest on the 
refunds. 
Mr Lender disagreed. It mainly said that our adjudicator was relying on a lending code that 
didnt apply to it. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding this case. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss P 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. 
Before lending to Miss P, Mr Lender  asked her to provide information about  her financial 
circumstances and carried  out a credit check.
Mr Lender recorded  her monthly income from her employment as £900. It says its credit  
check didnt show any defaults,  and no evidence of financial difficulties. 
Ref: DRN14356612Im sorry  if these  checks didnt properly reflect the true picture and Miss P was having money 
problems at the time. But I dont think Mr Lender knew this. 
And given  the amount of the loan, what was apparent about Miss Ps circumstances at the 
time and keeping in mind  that that this was her first loan, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to ask her for the amount of information needed to show  the 
lending was unsustainable. 
There wasnt anything in the information Miss P provided or the information Mr Lender 
should reasonably have  been aware of, which meant it would have been proportionate  to 
start verifying what Miss P had said during her loan application. In the circumstances, I dont 
think it was wrong for Mr Lender  to offer the loan to Miss P. 
And I havent seen  enough to suggest that Mr Lender acted unfairly  when it agreed  to roll 
over Miss Ps loan on 19 April 2013,  again on 17 May 2013 and for a third time on 14 June 
2013. 
I've seen nothing  to suggest that Mr Lender shouldve been  concerned  about  whether 
allowing her to defer payment (at extra  cost)  was really helpful to Miss P or that agreeing  the 
roll overs wasnt affordable for Miss P. 
But I think that by the time Miss P asked for the fourth roll over Mr Lender  shouldve declined  
this. 
As already clearly explained  by our adjudicator, regulation by the Financial Conduct  
Authority (FCA) didn't start until April 2014.  And it didn't  introduce  the rollover cap which 
meant that there  shouldnt be more than three roll overs until July 2014. But I still think that 
Mr Lenders decision to approve more than three  roll overs  in 2013 wasnt fair and 
reasonable. I say this because it went against the good industry practice  that was by then 
already being  recognised. Our adjudicator  flagged up the Lending Code produced by the 
Consumer Finance Association which limited the number of rollovers to three. And in a 
report by the Office of Fair trading in 2013 it was recognised that excessively rolling  over 
loans added to borrowers money problems. 
So I think its reasonable for me to say that Mr Lender shouldve been aware of this concern. 
And I think Miss Ps repeated requests to defer  repayment of the loan suggested that she 
might be experiencing  financial difficulty when she did this a fourth time. I dont think  
Mr Lender should  have allowed her to defer repayment of the loan more than three times 
because a responsible lender wouldve stopped allowing Miss P to roll over after the third 
time she did this.
Ive considered what Mr Lender  said in response  to the adjudicators  view.  But, for the 
reasons I've explained, Im partly upholding Miss Ps complaint against PDL Finance 
Limited.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
As I understand Mr Lender has sold the outstanding  debt to a third party  it should  buy this 
back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. Otherwise,  if it cant take the debt 
back, Mr Lender should pass  on a copy  of my decision to the third party debt owner to take 
the steps I've set out. 
Ref: DRN14356613 Refund all rollover  interest paid by Miss P in respect of rollovers that took place on and 
after 12 July 2013  and any associated fees and charges (including the failed card fee and 
letter fees dated 9th, 10th and 13th September 2013 as shown on the Transactions  history 
which Mr Lender has provided) 
 Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
 
 Remove any negative information recorded as a result of the loan being deferred  on and 
after 12 July 2013  from Miss Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I order  PDL Finance  Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  to take the steps 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2020. 
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1435661