K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains she was mis-sold insurance by Caversham Finance Limited (BrightHouse) 
to cover a mobile phone she purchased.
Miss F has also complained about  the way a claim under the policy  was handled.  It has 
previously been  explained to Miss F that we are unable to look at her complaint about  the 
claim as the insurance  company isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority.  So I 
wont comment on the claim  here.
background
Miss F bought a phone from BrightHouse in April 2019. At the same time she took an 
extended warranty which covered failure  of her phone due to electrical, mechanical or 
structural faults, and an insurance policy that covered fire, theft and accidental damage.  
Miss F says she was told the turnaround time to deal with a claim under her insurance  policy  
was three  days.  When Miss F made a claim under her insurance  policy  it took longer than 
the three days she expected. Miss F says that as she was given incorrect  information  she 
would like a refund of the premiums she paid for the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed so her complaint  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres little evidence available from the time Miss F was sold her policy,  and the staff 
member that sold her policy to her no longer works  for BrightHouse.  
Even if I accept that Miss F was told a claim made  under her insurance would be dealt with 
within three days, for me to be say she was mis-sold the policy I would also have to be 
satisfied that she wouldnt have bought the policy if she was told the turnaround time would 
likely be longer.
Ive given this some thought and think its unlikely repairs to a phone  could  always  be 
completed within three days. I dont think it would be unreasonable  or unusual based on my 
knowledge of these types of policies to expect claims  to take longer. I also havent seen 
enough to suggest Miss F wouldnt have taken out the policy if she had been aware the 
turnaround time of a claim was likely to be longer.
With the above in mind  I still think Miss F would  have  taken the policy if she was aware  her 
claim would take longer  than three  days to resolve. So I dont think the policy  was mis-sold  
to Miss F.
BrightHouse has offered Miss F £75 compensation for her experience. If Miss F would like to 
accept this offer, she should contact BrightHouse directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Ref: DRN16439402Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1643940