K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about end of contract charges when he ended his agreement  with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF).
background
Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement  with BPF. In 
October 2018 he requested to voluntary terminate the agreement. The car was handed back  
and inspected in November 2018.
In January 2019 the car was sold at auction. BPF wrote to Mr L advising him of the damage  
charges payable and explaining  that the debt would be passed to a debt collection company.
Mr L contacted BPF. He was unhappy  that it had taken them  so long to notify him of the 
damage charges.  BPF said the charges  were  payable.
Mr L was unhappy  with BPFs response and complained  to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. He said that although  it might have been confusing for Mr L to 
learn about the damage charges in January 2019,  he felt that by not carrying  out repairs and 
by instead waiting for the car to sell at auction, BPF had reduced Mr Ls liability. The 
investigator looked at the damage charges and said these had been charged  fairly.
Mr L didnt agree. He didnt feel that it was reasonable that hed waited so long before being 
advised that there were charges outstanding.  He said he hadnt been given the opportunity  
to check and agree the damage at the inspection. He felt that the list of damage was 
fabricated and said hed taken photos  of the car at the time hed handed it back which 
showed it didnt  have the level of damage listed. Mr L said the car was 5 years old when he 
handed it back and he felt that the cars condition reflected fair wear  and tear for its age. 
Mr L was unhappy  that hed received a letter  from the debt collection agency  stating that the 
charges of £1050  had been cleared when they hadnt been.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mr L must  return  the car in good  
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. The report  identifies damage  in 
several areas of the car, with total charges of £2037.01. Ive considered  all of the items of 
damage in accordance with the relevant guidelines  and in each case I agree that the 
damage exceeds fair wear and tear and is therefore  chargeable.
Ive had regard  to the photos supplied by Mr L which he says shows the car in good 
condition. However,  with the exception of the interior  photos,  these  photos  have been taken 
Ref: DRN19151052from some  distance away. I think the inspection report photos  are more reliable because  
they have been taken  at close  range and are more detailed.
Ive taken account of what  Mr L has said about  the care being in good  condition for its age. 
The BVLRA guidelines make allowances for damage to old vehicles but I cant say that 
Mr Ls car was particularly old. Whilst I would expect a car which was several years old to 
show greater signs of wear and tear than a nearly new car, this isnt a discretion which  can 
be applied  in Mr Ls case.
I appreciate that Mr L feels that it was unfair that several weeks passed before he was 
notified of the charges. BPF has explained that it has a policy  of reducing  damage charges 
to the difference between the sale price and the GAP  value  of the car. Because of this, it 
isnt possible to finalise  the charges until the car has been  sold. In this case, the car was 
sold in January 2019 and Mr L was advised of the charges shortly afterwards.  I dont think 
BPF acted unreasonably by not informing  Mr L about the charges until after the car had 
been sold. 
I can see that Mr L has benefitted from the way in which the damage charges were 
calculated. The finance agreement says that BPF can either charge for the damage found  at 
the time of inspection,  or charge an amount to reflect  the reduction in value at the time of 
sale. In this case, the damage charges at inspection were £2037.50 but once the car had 
been sold these  were reduced to £1050. So although I understand why Mr L was frustrated 
to learn of the damage charges around  2  months after he returned the car, the delay has 
resulted in the charges  being reduced by almost 50%.
Mr L has said that he wasnt given  the opportunity to check and agree any damage  at the 
time of inspection. Ive looked at the voluntary  termination paperwork and I can see that the 
collection procedures  which include the right to check and agree damage   only apply 
where the car is collected from the customers address. In this case, Mr L returned the car 
himself. Because  of this, I dont think there was any obligation on BPR to give Mr L the 
opportunity to check and agree the damage.
Mr L has said that he wants to see evidence that the car has been repaired.  But I dont think 
this is necessary because  in this case BPF chose  to charge Mr L for the reduction in value of 
the car at the time of sale, as opposed to the costs  of putting the car back  into a good 
condition. So there was no obligation  on BPF to carry  out any repairs. 
Mr L is unhappy that he received a letter from the debt collection agency which  stated that 
the balance had been cleared. Ive looked at this and whilst agree that taken  in isolation the 
letter mightve been confusing, Im satisfied that Mr L was aware of the damage charges and 
that he was also aware  that he hadnt  paid these.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think the damage  charges are fair. I appreciate that Mr L is 
concerned about  the effect  of the arrears on his credit file but I wont be asking BPF to write 
these off.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Ref: DRN19151053Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1915105