K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc, (BOS), (trading as Leeds Permanent  
Building Society), mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W bought monthly-premium MPPI at the same time as taking out a joint 
mortgage in 1992. Because this was so long ago, neither Mr and Mrs W nor BOS  have been 
able to send us copies of the paperwork signed by Mr and Mrs W.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with this view the matter has been  passed  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs W say that BOS didnt make it clear that the MPPI was optional. Because  of the 
time that has passed, BOS can no longer tell us whether the policy  was sold by post, over 
the phone  or during a meeting. Nor does it have records  of any discussions that may have 
taken place. And understandably Mr and Mrs W dont  recall much detail about how the policy  
was sold, so I dont  think that I can fairly and reasonably rely solely  on their memories.
This means  that I know  very little about how the MPPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs W. I 
therefore have  to decide what  I think is most likely to have happened  based on the limited  
information that I do have, including what I know about the way BOS  usually  sold MPPI 
around that time. And I havent seen anything to lead me to conclude  that BOS  didnt make it 
clear to Mr and Mrs W that the policy was optional,  or that they didnt agree to take it out.
BOS no longer has a copy  of the policy that was in use as early  as the time of the sale. So 
Ive had to base my decision  on the terms and conditions of the nearest later policy that we 
have seen, which I think is likely to have  been  similar.  
I dont know whether BOS  recommended to Mr and Mrs W that they take out the insurance. 
But this doesnt  affect my decision because, if it did recommend the MPPI, it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable  for their needs. And I think  that it was 
suitable. I say this because, on the basis I mention above, and taking  into account what  I 
know about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time:
Mr W was likely to have been  eligible for the policy;
Mr W was unlikely to have been affected  by the policys main limitations and restrictions  
 such as those  affecting someone  who had a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN16682982Mr W says that he was entitled  to sick pay from his employment. And that he and Mrs W 
had some savings. But, following  a successful claim, the MPPI would have been likely to 
pay out £300 a month  for up to 12 months had Mr W been off work because of accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment  . These  payments  would have been  made  on top 
of any sick pay or redundancy payment Mr W would have received. So I think  that the 
policy could have  been of use to Mr and Mrs W. I say this particularly bearing in mind the 
serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs W been unable  to make 
their mortgage repayments;
The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Ws joint name. But BOS has told us that only Mr W 
was covered by the MPPI.  I dont know why this was. But I have no information on which  
to conclude that this was inappropriate;
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs W couldnt afford the policy 
premiums at the time of the sale. And in any event, if their circumstances had changed 
and they later thought that the MPPI was unaffordable for them or they no longer wanted 
it, they could have cancelled it at any time without further cost.
I dont know what BOS  told Mr and Mrs W during the sale.  Its possible that it didnt tell them  
everything that it ought to have so that they could  make  an informed decision. Indeed Mr and 
Mrs W say that the policy exclusions werent  clearly  explained.  But as Ive concluded above 
that it was suitable for them, I dont think that better  information would have changed their 
minds and stopped  them  taking the MPPI. This means that Mr and Mrs W havent lost out 
because of anything  that BOS may have failed  to do or done  wrong  during the sale. So 
theres nothing I require it to put right.
In making this decision Ive taken  into account  everything that Mr and Mrs W have said, 
including that they had life insurance.  But this pays out in different circumstances than MPPI. 
They have also told us that Mr W had some shares  that he could have used to help with his 
mortgage repayments had he been off work. But the sale price of shares increases and 
decreases and it may not have been convenient, quick or sensible for Mr W to sell them  at 
the relevant time. I also understand that Mr and Mrs W have made a successful claim for 
mis-sold MPPI against a different lender. But I have to consider the facts and surrounding 
circumstances of this particular complaint. So what has happened in respect of another  
complaint has no bearing on my decision. So these and Mr and Mrs Ws other comments  do 
not affect my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Ros Barnet
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1668298