K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained about  a fraudulent withdrawal on their account  with HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. They are dissatisfied with:
-the customer service they received from HSBC; and 
-HSBCs processes.
background
On 7 November  2017, a man went into an HSBC branch with a photographic driving licence 
in Mr Ws name. He answered security questions  about Mr Ws employer, energy supplier, 
and who Mr Ws mortgage was with. He then withdrew £4,800.  But it wasnt  Mr W, and the 
driving licence  was fraudulent.  
In the late afternoon of Friday 9 November,  Mrs W noticed the transaction and rang HSBC  to 
report the fraud. The next day, 10 November, she also spoke to the branch where the fraud 
had taken place,  and the manager told her theyd completed the internal fraud referral form, 
describing what had happened.
Mrs W also tried to contact HSBCs telephone banking on 11 November. She rang again  on 
13 November. HSBC  told her  wrongly  - that a previous phone adviser hadnt completed 
the referral to the fraud  team as promised.  The fraud  had reduced Mr and Mrs Ws account 
to a balance of 99p, so HSBC provided  £1,000 to their account on a temporary basis,  in 
order to meet daily expenses while it was investigating the issue.
In fact, HSBC had carried out its internal  fraud referral process. But its phone adviser on 13 
November didnt see this, because it had been Mrs W whod phoned, and the warning had 
been put against Mr Ws profile, because it had been Mr W whom the fraudster had 
impersonated.
On 14 November, HSBC  refunded  Mr and Mrs W with the £4,800  which had been 
fraudulently taken from their account. It also offered them £250 compensation for having told 
Mrs W that the fraud process hadnt  been  completed, when it had. Mrs W refused. She then 
made two complaints: one about  the customer service, and one that HSBCs  processes had 
been negligent.
In its reply to the service  complaint, HSBC confirmed that the branch had completed the 
fraud process the morning after Mrs W had reported it. HSBC confirmed that the £4,800  
stolen by the fraudster had been refunded to Mrs and Mr Ws account when the bank had 
concluded its investigation on 14 November. HSBC apologised for having wrongly said on 
13 November that the fraud hadnt been reported,  and for the branch manager  not returning  
a call from Mrs W.
In its reply to the process complaint, HSBC said that it had robust security measures 
requiring identification when  a counter withdrawal is made. It said that in this case,  the 
fraudster not only produced  photographic  identification, but also knew  Mr Ws workplace, 
and direct debits on the account. It said it couldnt  give further details, but assured Mrs and 
Mr W that the matter had been reported  to the authorities to take further.
Mrs and Mr W werent satisfied and complained  to this service. Mrs W compiled a long and 
detailed chronology. As an outcome,  they said they wanted:
Ref: DRN15636522-reassurance that HSBC was safeguarding their money, and to recognise  that the 
systems in place werent being  adhered to. Mrs and Mr W said the bank wasnt 
acting on its terms and conditions;
-HSBC to treat them in a fair and acceptable  way;
-compensation so HSBC would recognise that its negligence  had been  unacceptable.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs and Mr Ws complaint. He explained  that were  not the 
regulator for financial services, so we dont tell banks how to run their day to day operations,  
including what security  measures they should have in place. Nor is it our role to fine 
businesses by making punitive awards.
In relation to the terms and conditions, Mrs W had said that the branch should only have 
accepted a card and PIN, or a withdrawal book.  HSBC provided the adjudicator with the 
terms and conditions applicable at the time.  These showed that the section Mrs W had 
quoted only referred  to withdrawals at post office branches,  not HSBC branches.
The adjudicator also noted that HSBC had acknowledged it had said it hadnt dealt with the 
fraud when  it in fact had, and the branch manager hadnt returned  a call. Mrs W had told the 
adjudicator that they wanted  an award  which would hurt HSBC,  but the adjudicator 
considered the £250 offered was fair. He believed that the cashier had been presented with 
convincing evidence that the person at the till was Mr W, and had acted in accordance with 
their training.  
Mrs and Mr W werent satisfied. Mrs W replied that the adjudicators findings were totally  
unacceptable. She said his assessment was full of mistakes with regard to the full 
information pack which shed sent to us. She said they didnt even  want to begin  to address 
the multiple errors the adjudicator had made. She suggested that the adjudicator  should 
carefully re-read and revisit this, and then undertake his investigation  again  in a full and 
methodical way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs and Mr W have  raised multiple points 
in their submissions to this service.  Ive understood and looked into all of these, but Ive 
commented below only on what I find is vital to my conclusions.
complaint about  HSBC  processes
As the adjudicator explained,  this service is not the regulator for banks. Thats  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  So we dont get involved with telling banks how to run their operations, or 
assessing whether  or not their processes are or arent negligent. This means that I cant  
consider this part of Mrs and Mr Ws complaint.
complaint about  HSBC  customer service
Mrs and Mr W have  complained about  HSBCs actions  after Mrs W reported  the fraud in the 
late afternoon of 9 November. I recognise that a fraud is stressful and worrying,  and its 
understandable that they were anxious. But my role is to look at whether HSBC handled this 
situation fairly. Having  looked at what happened, I can see that:
Ref: DRN15636523-the branch  did complete a fraud report on the morning after Mrs W reported it;
-it put a marker  against Mr Ws name, because it was Mr W whom the fraudster  
impersonated;
-HSBC accepted liability for the £4,800 loss resulting from the fraudsters withdrawal. 
So it bore the loss, not Mrs and Mr W. This is in line with the relevant payment 
service regulations and section  27.5 of the terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Ws 
account at the time of the fraud;
-I note that Mrs and Mr W say theyve taken police advice to sign up for a credit  
reference service, which is costing them £30 a month. But I dont find that HSBC  is 
liable to refund this. The banks liability under  the relevant  Payment  Services 
Regulations is for the money the fraudster withdrew, not for decisions  however 
sensible  that customers subsequently choose to take;
-HSBC also made  a temporary  transfer  of £1,000 to Mrs and Mr Ws account, so their 
normal bills could go ahead without problems. I accept that the £4,800  refund was 
processed as soon as HSBC  had completed  its investigation. I consider the 
timescales were reasonable, with the fraud  reported late on Friday  9 November and 
a full refund  at the end of the investigation  on Wednesday  14 November.
I find that HSBC treated  Mrs and Mr W fairly in all these aspects.
On the other hand:
-HSBC was wrong to tell Mrs W on 13 November that the branch hadnt carried out 
the fraud procedure,  when it had;
-the branch  manager didnt phone Mrs W back as promised.
When considering  compensation, this service looks at what  would be fair and reasonable. 
So Ive considered what compensation would be reasonable  for these  two customer  service  
failings. This service doesnt  set out to hurt banks when  making  this assessment, but to 
look at overall fairness. I find that the £250  which HSBC offered Mrs and Mr W is more  than 
fair for these two small points, and I dont  require HSBC  to do more.
terms and conditions
Mrs and Mr W complained that HSBC didnt follow its own processes because  these said 
that any branch  counter withdrawal had to be authorised by the card with its chip,  and the 
correct PIN. As set out above, its not the role of this organisation to comment on whether a 
banks procedures were  correct. But I can, and have, considered whether or not HSBC 
breached what it had set out as the terms and conditions applicable to Mr and Mr Ws 
account.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which applied to the account at the time of the 
fraudulent withdrawal. I can see no clause in these which restricts branch withdrawals to 
chip and PIN only. Section 20 of the relevant Current Account Terms and Conditions  sets 
out that customers can use their card and card PIN to withdraw cash at post offices.  This 
doesnt restrict what happens at HSBC branches.  So I dont find that HSBC  broke  the 
account terms and conditions by not restricting cash withdrawals to chip and PIN. 
Ref: DRN15636524Instead, HSBC required  the fraudster to produce photographic identification (the driving 
licence) and asking questions about Mr Ws employer, energy supplier and mortgage 
provider. 
dedicated relationship manager
Mrs and Mr W also told our adjudicator that, because of the type of account they had, they 
were entitled  to have  had a named adviser/relationship  manager to help them at this time.  I 
cant see that this was raised as part of Mrs and Mr Ws original complaint to HSBC  and 
this service can only look at complaints where  the bank has had an opportunity to reply to 
the issues raised. So this is something I cant consider. I note, however, that the adjudicator 
did ask HSBC about this, and was told that their account type didnt provide that service.  If 
Mrs and Mr W are still unhappy about this, they should  raise  it first with HSBC.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mrs and Mr W to decide 
whether or not they wish to ask HSBC UK Bank  Plc whether the £250 compensation it 
offered it still available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1563652