K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough to prevent and protect him from 
losing money to a scam.
background
In January 2019 Mr A was in touch  by email with a building company to have an extension 
built. Mr A was asked for a 20% upfront payment and on 21 January 2019 was sent an email 
with an attached invoice including the bank details to make the payment to.
Mr A made an online payment on 22 January 2019  of £8,173.68 to the bank details provided 
in the invoice hed been emailed, to cover the 20% upfront  payment,  and the payment was 
debited from his account. Later that same day, he received a further email  asking  for a 
further payment  of 20% to take the total down-payment for the work to 40%.  Mr A says the 
rationale for this request  was convincing.
Mr A went  online on 23 January 2019  to make this second payment, again for £8,173.68 and 
to the same  bank account. HSBCs systems  for fraud checks  were  alerted by this second  
payment request. And as HSBC was unable to make contact with Mr A to confirm  the 
payment was genuine, HSBC stopped this second payment leaving Mr As account. 
The following  day, on 24 January 2019,  Mr A and HSBC were in touch. Mr A says HSBC 
said it had blocked  his second  payment request and suspended  his account due to serious 
suspicions; and that it asked him to call the building company to check the details before 
proceeding further. Mr A says he then called  the building company. And it was discovered  
that the bank details  in the invoice Mr A had been sent were not for the building  company. It 
was explained  that the builders emails appeared to have been hacked.
With an email  interception scam suspected,  HSBC  tried to recover  the first payment of 
£8,173.68 (made  on 22 January 2019) from the receiving bank but ultimately it was able to 
recover just 2 pence.
HSBC didnt agree to reimburse Mr A with the funds  he lost. A dispute  ensued,  and 
remaining unhappy, Mr A referred his complaint  to this service.
An investigator here looked into the matter and recommended  that Mr As complaint be 
upheld. HSBC didnt  agree so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
I sent Mr A and HSBC  my provisional decision on 7 October  2020  explaining why I was 
minded to uphold  Mr As complaint, and explaining the compensation I was minded to 
conclude was appropriate. 
Both HSBC  and Mr A responded  to my provisional decision: HSBC  explaining why it doesnt 
agree with my provisional decision; and Mr A with some points about the compensatory  
interest rate. 
 
As Mr A and HSBC are aware,  I subsequently  emailed them both on 24 March 2021 
explaining that if my final decision was to uphold Mr As complaint, I considered 2.8%  simple  
per year to be an appropriate compensatory  interest rate on the money  lost (a change from 
the prevailing current account rate indicated  in my provisional decision). HSBC  and Mr A 
Ref: DRN13997782responded without  disagreement on the interest  rate  but the fact remains  that HSBC 
doesnt agree the complaint should  be upheld at all. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached materially  the same  conclusions and for materially the same reasons as in my 
provisional decision as further clarified in my emails  to the parties  dated  24 March  2021. Ive
explained my reasons  again below with further comment where I have thought it appropriate
to address Mr A and HSBCs most recent submissions.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, I am required  
to take into account  relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions  of the customers account. That 
was the case  in January 2019,  and remains  so now, and I have  taken this into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story.  Taking  account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should  
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  Our fair and reasonable  remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow  legal duties  considered in 
that and other court cases.
Ref: DRN13997783In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case. However, the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
I am mindful  that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced  the relevant rules,  codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions,  both to HSBC 
and published  on our website.
I am satisfied that Mr A authorised the payment on 22 January 2019. So in this case,  taking 
all of these things into account, I need  to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Mr A when he made the payment of £8,173.68 on 22 January  2019,  or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did.
did HSBC act fairly and reasonably in Mr As case?
I have considered the position carefully.
In Mr As case  Im satisfied HSBCs systems for fraud checks were alerted  on 
23 January 2019  by Mr As second  payment request of £8,173.68. This led to the scam 
being uncovered,  since  following HSBCs advice, Mr A called his builder  and discovered  the 
bank details he had received by email were not in fact for the builder.
HSBC has explained  why this second  payment  request alerted its fraud systems. I agree it 
doesnt automatically follow that the first payment should have alerted its systems on 
22 January 2019  just because the second  one did on 23 January 2019. I am also aware that 
Mr A says HSBC didnt check the account holders name when  making the payment but only 
used the sort code  and account number.  However,  the relevant regulations  the Payment 
Services Regulation 2017  set out that payments are sent according to the unique  
identifiers (typically the account number and sort code). In particular, regulation 90 of the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017  states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed with the unique identifier, the payment order 
is deemed to have been correctly executed  by each payment service provider 
involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified by the 
unique identifier.
(5) Where  the payment service user provides information additional to that specified 
in regulation 43(2)(a)the  payment service  provider is liable  only for the execution of 
payment transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the 
payment service user.
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (here, Mr A). There was no regulatory  
requirement to check the beneficiary name  provided. So I cant  fairly say that HSBC  didnt 
follow Mr As instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code 
provided, and I am not persuaded that it should have done more  to check  the beneficiary in 
the circumstances of this payment.
Ref: DRN13997784In this case, however, I do think Mr As first payment request should  have  alerted  HSBCs 
systems for fraud checks because the payment  request of £8,173.68 on 22 January 2019  
was unusual and uncharacteristic in the context of Mr As usual account activity;  it was to a 
new payee and for a large amount.
Mr As account statements for the six months  preceding the payment show  that the largest 
payment he had made was for £9,473.54  in December 2018 which appears to have  been  to 
repay a loan, which also stands out compared to the usual activity on the account: the next 
largest payments  Mr A made  were  for £871.67  which appear to have been mortgage 
payments, and the vast majority of all other  payments  during  the six-month  period were for 
significantly less than that. The payment request of £8,173.68 does therefore stand out (and 
should have stood out to HSBC at the time) as unusual in the context  of Mr As account. 
HSBC has pointed to Mr As account  balance of £14,576.39 (in credit)  immediately before  
the payment request. And I do understand the point  it is making.  However, the account 
statements I have seen  show  that Mr As account balance  was consistently substantially  in 
credit. And I am not persuaded in this case that this means HSBC  should have therefore 
thought Mr As payment request wasnt otherwise unusual  and worthy  of further checks 
before allowing it through.
HSBC has also said that the payment would not of itself have caused [it] concern as there 
had not been a change  in beneficiary  details  from previous payments made to the same 
beneficiary  appearing to suggest the payment requested  by Mr A on 22 January 2019 was 
not to a new payee. However, I am also aware  that HSBC appears  to have described the 
second payment  request as to the same  new payee. And it appears to me that the payment 
request on 22 January  2019 was to a new payee  (and HSBC has not challenged this further, 
for example in its response to my provisional  decision).
So I am satisfied that the payment instruction was unusual and uncharacteristic  in the 
context of Mr As previous  account  activity, and that the payment stands out  and should 
have stood out to HSBC  at the time.
Whilst I accept  there is a balance to be struck  between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and 
ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate payments, I do not think  that means  HSBC  acted 
fairly and reasonably in this case. I also do not think that given the circumstances in this 
case as a whole  including the environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud  
and scams  in recent years  that HSBC ought not to have done more  simply because its 
customers do from time-to-time instruct legitimate payments that are unusual  compared to 
their usual account activity and significant in terms of value. It is a question of fact and 
degree in each individual case.  And here, in Mr As case, I am satisfied that as a matter  of 
good practice, given  the unusual and uncharacteristic nature of the payment  instruction, that 
HSBC should  have made at least some basic enquiries before putting  the payment through.  
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  been  asked by HSBC would  have  made  a difference.
I appreciate HSBC says it wasnt and isnt required to act as an amateur detective; and that 
it doesnt think contact  with Mr A would  have made  a difference. To be clear, however, Im 
not suggesting Mr A should have been subject to an interrogation   merely, in the 
circumstances, a basic level of questioning  designed to disturb or unearth  a potential fraud 
and establish  that Mr A was not at risk of financial harm.
Ref: DRN13997785I dont think it would  have  taken much here, if HSBC had called Mr A before allowing the first 
payment through, for HSBC to have asked  what the payment was for and how Mr A had 
received the request for it, for HSBC to have become concerned that Mr A was potentially  at 
risk of an email interception scam   just as HSBC was concerned  when it spoke to Mr A on 
24 January 2019  regarding  the second  payment request.  In these circumstances, I think 
HSBC ought to have recommended that Mr A speak with the building  company  to confirm 
the account details provided in the email  again, just as HSBC did when it spoke to Mr A on 
24 January 2019  regarding  the second  payment request.  This was in January 2019,  and 
remains today, a well-known scam.
I understand that HSBC argues that this wouldnt  have made a difference but I dont find this 
persuasive at all. I havent seen anything to suggest that this was anything other than a 
situation where Mr A was expecting to pay a building company and took the emails he 
received at face value, not being alert to this type of scam, which ought to have  been  well 
known to HSBC.  So Im satisfied that if HSBC had done what  it should have here,  Mr A 
wouldnt have made the payment of £8,173.68 of 22 January 2019 and he wouldnt have lost 
this money.
I have considered whether Mr A should  bear some  responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the 
consequences of his actions. He thought he was simply paying his builder in line with the 
emails he not unreasonably  thought  were  legitimate.  I am satisfied there was no contributory  
negligence on this occasion, he was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever  
fraudster  and could see no risk of harm because, unlike the bank, he had no knowledge  or 
experience of such online scams.
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr A for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost. Mr A has explained that after he lost the £8,173.66 to the 
scam, he had to borrow money to make up for this and Im satisfied from the information  
provided that an appropriate  interest rate to compensate  for this is 2.8% simple per year. 
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest  award  of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A has suffered  because he has been facing the very real possibility  for 
some time that he would not get his money back. In reaching that conclusion  I am mindful 
that his loss was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster and it was an authorised  
transaction, but HSBC could ultimately have prevented the payment.
Ref: DRN13997786my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint about  HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I 
direct it to:
pay Mr A £8,173.66 within 28 days of receiving  his acceptance  of my final decision;
pay Mr A interest calculated at 2.8% simple per year on that amount from 
22 January 2019 to the date of settlement.  If HSBC deducts tax from this interest,  it 
should provide  Mr A with the appropriate tax deduction certificate; and
pay Mr A £200 for distress and inconvenience  within 28 days  of receiving his 
acceptance of my final decision,  failing which interest will thereafter accrue on that 
sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1399778