K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that his mortgage lender, Barclays Bank UK PLC, is insisting on the use of a 
solicitor to change the ownership details of the property with the Land Registry.
background
Mr Rs mortgage with Barclays was originally taken out with his wife. Since  their divorce, 
they are living  apart and she is no longer  party to the mortgage. With her agreement,  Mr R 
wants to remove her from the property title record at the Land  Registry  but because 
Barclays has a charge over the property it has to agree  to that change.
Mr R contacted Barclays to ask it to agree. Barclays said it had no objection,  but would only 
formally consent to a request  from Mr Rs solicitor.  And it said he had to appoint  a solicitor 
from its panel  but it couldnt tell him which solicitors were on the panel. 
Mr R complained. He didnt think a solicitor  was needed for a simple  administrative change.  
Barclays insistence would make the process  more expensive for him. He wanted it to agree 
without making him use a solicitor. 
Barclays said it would instruct a solicitor  to do work  of this type. So it was better  that Mr Rs 
solicitor acted for both of them   which is why it wanted him to use a solicitor  from its panel.  
But it offered  Mr R £80 towards his expenses and £150 compensation for the delay in 
dealing with his complaint.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Barclays to ask Mr R to use a solicitor. But 
she said it should tell him who was on the panel  so he could find one. Neither party agreed,  
so the case comes to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs property is the security for the money Barclays lent him. I can understand why 
Barclays wants to make sure that its security  continues  to be protected and that the charge 
remains properly recorded  when the property  title is changed. I dont think its unreasonable  
for Barclays to want to use a solicitor  to ensure the work is done properly.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Rs mortgage say that Barclays can charge him the costs  of 
any expenses it incurs  in managing the mortgage. That includes legal fees to protect its 
security. So Barclays  could instruct its own solicitor to liaise directly with Mr R, and charge 
him the costs of doing so.
Equally, it could ask Mr R to instruct a solicitor himself who could then act for both parties.  I 
dont think in practice it would make  much difference, and so I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to ask Mr R to do this before it would formally consent.
Barclays insisted Mr R use a solicitor from its panel   because the solicitor would act for both 
of them,  and Barclays only instructs its panel  solicitors. Thats not unreasonable  either.
Ref: DRN18434762But I see no reason  why Barclays was unwilling to tell Mr R who was on its panel. Its given 
no good reason  for refusing. In fact, it gave  no reason at all. It can hardly  insist  on Mr R 
using one of a limited  number  of solicitors, and then refuse to tell him who they are. Its not 
fair, or practical, to expect  Mr R to ring solicitors at random until he finds one. Barclays 
should give Mr R a list of say five solicitors  from its panel local to him so that he can choose 
one.
Overall, Barclays  request was reasonable  but its refusal to tell Mr R who was on its panel 
frustrated his ability to comply with it. Its offered Mr R £80 compensation for his costs, 
including a fee he was charged  by the Land Registry because  of delay, and £150 
compensation for his trouble and upset. I think thats  a fair offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Give Mr R a list of five solicitors firms from its panel who are either local to him or 
accept remote instructions, so that he can select a solicitor  to use; and
Pay Mr R £230 compensation, if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1843476