K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains about the way American  Express Services  Europe Limited (AESEL)  (Amex) 
handled his account after a payment arrangement came to an end. 
Background
Mr C had a credit card with Amex and entered into a payment  arrangement  called a Care  
Plan in January 2016. Whilst in the Care  Plan Mr Cs payments were reduced  to £95 and 
the interest rate charged was lowered. Amex says the Care Plan is a short  term measure 
that it only normally uses for a period of three to 12 months. Due to an error, Amex says 
Mr C remained  on the Care Plan until October 2018.  
On 18 October 2018 Amex wrote to Mr C and advised the Care  Plan had ended. On 
24 October 2018 Mr C contacted Amex to discuss the letter  he received. Mr C said he 
wanted the existing Care  Plan to continue  but was told the next option was a Regain Plan  
that may lead to his account being defaulted. 
On 7 November  2018 Mr C called Amex and asked to speak with the supervisor hed 
previous dealt with. The supervisor called  Mr C back about another complaint hed raised  
and also talked about the credit card. Amexs contact notes say the supervisor told Mr C his 
next statement  would contain the correct interest rate and payment he needed to make.  
On 28 November 2018 Amex sent Mr C a statement which said his minimum payment had 
increased to £195.  Mr C didnt make  the payments due in December 2018 or January and 
February 2019 and the arrears increased too £665.
On 7 February 2019 Amex sent Mr C a notice  of default. 
Amexs contact notes  show  that during this period it regularly tried to call Mr C about  the 
arrears on his account. Mr C called Amex on 25 February 2019 and asked to speak with the 
same person  hed discussed his account with in November 2018. Amexs  contact notes say 
Mr C agreed to call back  the following day. Mr C says he was expecting  a call back from 
Amex but didnt receive it. 
Mr C has sent in phone records that show he called Amex on 1 March 2019  and the call 
lasted two minutes. Amexs contact  notes dont record a call from Mr C. On 2 March  2019 
Amex sent a formal  demand and on 4 March  2019  the account was referred to a third party  
business to manage. 
Mr C complained on 9 March 2019 and Amex responded on 14 March 2019.  Amex said that 
its decision to refer Mr Cs account  to a third party  was correct. Amex didnt uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint and he referred it to our service.  An investigator looked at what had happened but 
didnt find that Amex had treated Mr C unfairly and thought its decision to  default the 
account and refer it to a third party was reasonable. Mr C asked to appeal  so his complaint  
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN19028562I can see that Mr C maintained the Care Plan for a long time and made the payments Amex 
requested. I understand he was surprised and concerned that the Care  Plan stopped in 
October 2018. But Amexs Care  Plan isnt a permanent arrangement.  Amex has explained  
that the Care  Plan normally runs for a short period of between three and 12 months. After 
that, the normal approach is to review the account  and decide what  action to take next. In Mr 
Cs case, the plan remained in place  for a significantly longer period. But Amex was within  its 
rights to review the payment arrangement it had agreed to under the Care Plan when it 
looked at Mr Cs account in October  2018. 
Mr C complains that it was unfair  to move his account back onto the contractual terms, 
increasing the minimum payment and interest  rate. But those were the terms he originally 
agreed to borrow on. And, as Ive said above, the Care Plan wasnt a permanent change  to 
Mr Cs arrangement with Amex. Im satisfied  Amex was entitled  to end the Care Plan in 
October 2018 and didnt  have to put Mr C back onto it. 
Amex also offers a Regain Plan which is designed to make  the payments more  affordable  in 
the longer term.  But the impact of a Regain Plan on a card holders credit file is likely to be 
worse than the Care  Plan. Under  a Regain Plan a default can still be applied.  Whilst I 
appreciate Mr C wanted to improve his credit  score and had been making payments under 
the Care Plan to that end, Im satisfied Amexs decision to review  his account and offer a 
new type of arrangement was reasonable. 
There was no option to leave Mr Cs account on the Care Plan indefinitely.  His options after 
Amex reviewed his account were  to return to the original terms and pay the normal  
contractual payment, agree a Regain Plan or default the account. Mr C didnt make 
payments after the Care  Plan ended so I think Amexs decision to default  his account was 
reasonable. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter, but for the 
reasons Ive given  above, Im satisfied Amexs  decision to refuse a further Care Plan was 
reasonable. 
Mr C has told us he wasnt contacted by Amex as promised and that his calls werent 
retuned. Ive looked at Mr Cs phone records and I can see there were occasions where he 
had short calls of around two minutes  that arent reflected on Amexs  call notes. But, Ive 
also seen Amexs contact  notes and its clear it tried to call Mr C on numerous occasions 
during the period to discuss his account.  Mr C has told us he doesnt answer calls from 
withheld numbers and wont  accept  calls from certain other numbers he doesnt recognise.  
Whilst Mr C is free to decide what calls to answer,  I think its clear Amex  tried to call Mr C on 
numerous occasions to discuss his account without success. 
Mr C says that he didnt  receive call backs as promised. But Amexs  call records say Mr C 
promised to call back to discuss his account.  Unfortunately, there are no call recordings 
available. But there does seem to be a misunderstanding. However, I can see that Amex did 
try to call Mr C back in the days immediately after his call on 25 February 2019 in order to 
discuss his account.  As Amex wasnt able to discuss the account with Mr C it took the step 
of applying the default and referring  the debt to a third party. 
Ref: DRN19028563Mr C has complained about Amexs decision to ask a third party  to deal with his account.  But 
under the credit cards terms and conditions Amex  can refer the debt to a third party  to 
manage. I havent  seen anything that shows Mr C was disadvantaged or treated unfairly 
because of Amexs  decision to refer his debt to a third party. 
I do understand that Mr C wanted to improve his credit score and this situation  has most 
likely had an adverse  effect. But, as Ive said above,  the Care Plan was never  a permanent 
option. In this case, Amex says it actually left the account on the Care Plan for considerably 
longer than normal. Amex  was within  its rights  to review the Care Plan arrangement  and end 
it. Mr Cs options from that point were limited.  
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I havent  been persuaded that Amex acted unfairly when  it 
ended the Care Plan arrangement and later took the step of defaulting  Mr Cs account. As I 
havent found that Amex treated Mr C unfairly Im not telling  it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24  April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1902856