K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the sale of his income  protection policy by Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited.
background
In 2007, Mr P was sold an income  protection policy. The aim of the policy was to pay benefit, 
after a waiting period of 52 weeks, in the event he couldnt work because  of accident or 
illness. 
Mr P complained about the sale of the policy. He says he didnt need it because of his 
employers sick pay, and ill-health retirement pension.  Countrywide didnt uphold his 
complaint, so he brought the matter here. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  the policy had 
been suitable for Mr P. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matters been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr P says he doesnt think he needed the policy because of his employers sick pay 
arrangements.
Ive looked at the information from the time of sale. This confirms Mr P wanted a monthly  
income if he couldnt work because of illness. It was recorded his employer would pay 
26 weeks full sick pay, followed by 26 weeks half pay. 
The adviser recommended a policy  with a 52 week waiting period.  Im satisfied this waiting 
period was set up to coincide with Mr Ps sick pay arrangements, as benefit  would only 
become payable once Mr P had stopped receiving sick pay from his employer. Im also 
satisfied the policy benefit was within the maximum Mr P could have. 
The adviser recommended the policy term matched Mr Ps retirement age, however I see 
this was changed to ten years on Mr Ps request. This lowered  the cost of the policy.  
Overall, Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr P and his requirements. 
Mr P also says the policy wasnt needed  because  of his ill-health retirement pension. 
However Mr Ps ill-health retirement pension would only be paid if he were permanently  
unable to work. This is a stricter test of incapacity  than he would need to meet under this 
policy. As such, I dont  think an ill-health  retirement pension should  be relied upon as a 
definite source of income in the event of long-term incapacity. 
I therefore dont  find that the policy was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN11175462Mr P has also said he didnt  know how much  commission  the adviser was paid. Commission  
is often included on illustrations. I havent seen the illustration but theres reference in the file 
from the adviser confirming that Mr P received this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1117546