K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) wont  refund him for a gift 
voucher which  he purchased using his Tesco credit card.
background
Mr S says he purchased  a £340 gift voucher for beauty treatments at a local salon (the 
Supplier) for his wife as a present. However,  the Supplier left the premises and a new salon 
took over the lease  which would not accept the gift voucher. He says he tried to contact the 
owner of the Supplier but did not get a reply. He then approached Tesco  for help.
Tesco reviewed the matter and considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75) but it didnt  agree to refund Mr S. 
Mr S brought the matter  to this service. Our investigator said Tesco handled the dispute  
unfairly and it should refund Mr S for the gift voucher. Overall, he was satisfied there was 
enough evidence  to show the Supplier had breached  its contract with Mr S. 
Tesco did not agree.  In summary it says:
there are no terms and conditions/contract for the gift voucher and without this 
information it is unable  to determine  if a breach  of contract has occurred;
the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken as the gift voucher was for his wifes 
birthday and as his wife is not covered by Section  75 Mr S is not entitled  to anything 
(or half at the most); and
it didnt handle things  unfairly as it considered the dispute both under the chargeback  
scheme and Section  75.
I issued a provisional decision on the case on 22 February 2021. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Section 75 claim
Tesco considered  the problem Mr S was having  with the Supplier as a claim under 
Section 75. In considering  a complaint about  a financial services provider, Im not 
determining the outcome  of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather,  
in deciding whats a fair way to resolve  Mr Ss complaint, I have to take account of 
relevant law, which includes Section 75.
Ref: DRN10246272Section 75 makes Tesco liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation in 
respect of things which Mr S pays for on his credit  card. There  are criteria that need  
to be met for that to happen. One of the things is there needs to be a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship. 
Tesco has called into question the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  as it says the 
purchase was not intended solely for Mr S but bought for use by family, namely his 
wife. However, the key thing is whether or not Mr S (the debtor  here)  has a contract 
with the Supplier  for the purchase. Although, use of goods and services can be an 
indicator of who is contracting it is not always the case. For example, in this case of a 
birthday gift  the gift giver  is able to contract for the whole purchase and later gift to 
the person of their choice. 
There isnt a written contract  in the form of an invoice here  just a copy of the 
voucher. But from what  Mr S said in his initial submissions  (and considering the 
nature of the purchase) I am persuaded this was primarily a surprise  gift for his wifes 
birthday. And that he solely contracted with the Supplier for the purchase. This is 
further reinforced with how Mr S has been  the one to chase up the validity  of said 
voucher in order that it might be used. It appears  the voucher could also be used by 
him and other members of his family, but I dont  think this changes my view that Mr S 
is the sole contracting party here. As the sole contracting party  I am satisfied  that Mr 
S is able to pursue the Supplier  (or Tesco via Section 75) for the full £340 value. 
In conclusion, along with the other  aspects  of this purchase (for example the price) I 
am persuaded the criteria is in place for a valid Section  75 claim. And that the extent 
of Mr Ss claim  is for the full purchase  price. So I have gone  on to consider whether a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  has occurred. For convenience when 
referring to use of the voucher I will simply refer to Mr S.
lack of terms and conditions
Tesco has indicated that a lack of written  terms and conditions is a barrier  to 
refunding Mr S. But I dont  believe it is, particularly where  the nature of the purchase  
is not unusual  or complex. I have looked at the information we do have in order  to 
work out the likely contractual  agreement  between the parties.
It isnt disputed that Mr S bought a gift voucher for beauty treatments for £340 in 
December 2016  from the Supplier who at the time was working from a particular 
location. From the information we have I think it is reasonable to accept it likely 
formed a fairly simple contractual arrangement. This being an agreement  that on 
redemption of the gift voucher the Supplier would provide beauty treatments at the 
salon to the value of £340 from a menu of possible services. 
Mr S says the voucher expired on the 30/12/2017. This is also reinforced by the copy 
of the voucher I have seen which has this expiry  date on the back  of it. So it seems  
Mr S had a year to use it, and this formed part of the overall  agreement  he had with 
the Supplier too.
Ref: DRN10246273In my view the nature  of the contract is not so vague  as to render it impractical  to 
work out if a breach of contract has occurred. In my view, if Mr S tried to use the 
voucher to pay for treatments within the validity period and the Supplier has not 
allowed this to happen, this is a relatively straightforward breach of contract  for which  
Tesco is liable for.
has a breach  of contract occurred?
Tesco has indicated that it cannot  tell if Mr S has redeemed  the voucher already. I 
accept we will not know for certain if this is the case. But I think it is fair and 
reasonable to look at what  is more likely  to have occurred based  on the evidence we 
do have.
Mr S has given  a fairly detailed account  of what happened. It appears he went  into 
the salon with his family  to redeem the gift voucher around September  2017 and the 
owner told him they were refurbishing and to come back a few weeks  later. When  
they came  back in October  2017 the salon had been  taken over by new owners who 
would not honour  the voucher.
I find what Mr S says to be credible. This service  contacted the new salon  and it 
appears they are a separate business  entity with a different name which  took over 
the lease from the Supplier. It appears there have been goodwill attempts to settle 
some disputes relating  to unused gift vouchers issued by the previous resident (the 
Supplier)  but nothing that indicates  to me the new salon has honoured (or was 
required to honour)  any of the voucher Mr S bought.  
Mr S says he requested  the contact details of the owner of the Supplier and 
attempted to get in touch  with her. I have seen a copy  of an email  in which  Mr S 
writes to her and requests  a refund.  The email  (which  looks  like it was sent in 
November 2017) is credible, matches up to his testimony about what  happened  and 
really persuades me that Mr S was likely not able to use the voucher  at all. I can also 
see an email in December  2017 where  Mr S chases up the matter and asks if the 
previous email was received. Mr S says he sent several emails to the Supplier  of the 
voucher and never got a response  and from what  I have seen I think  this is likely.
I think the circumstantial evidence indicates that Mr S was unable to use the voucher 
through the fault of the supplier. In addition to this a staff member  who worked for the 
Supplier confirmed that as credit is redeemed this would usually be marked on the 
back of the voucher. This doesnt appear  to have happened here  which also 
indicates Mr S had not redeemed any part of the voucher.  
Overall, I am persuaded the Supplier  likely breached its contract with Mr S by 
preventing him from redeeming the voucher it sold. I am not persuaded it is likely  that 
any of the voucher has been used. Therefore, I think Mr S is fairly entitled to all of his 
money back. 
Mr S has indicated  he wants additional  compensation for the stress  and time 
wasting caused  by what happened  here. It seems unlikely that in these particular 
circumstances a court would make this type of award against the Supplier.  So with 
that in mind, in relation to the like claim for breach of contract  via Section 75 I dont 
think it would  be fair to tell Tesco to pay any more.  
Ref: DRN10246274Tesco has also indicated it didnt raise  a chargeback because  when Mr S raised his 
dispute he was out of time according  to the chargeback  rules.  I dont propose to go 
into the chargeback  issues  in detail as I am upholding this complaint  for other  
reasons. However,  on the face of it Tesco didnt act unfairly in the way it handled Mr 
Ss dispute about the Supplier.  
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is to direct Tesco Personal  Finance PLC to rework  the credit  
card of Mr S as if the transaction for the £340 gift card had not been made   
removing any interest  and charges that may have been applied  to this transaction. If 
this results in a credit balance it should  pay this directly to Mr S plus interest at 8% 
simple per year calculated from the date of said credit balance  to the date of 
settlement.
Both parties  responded:
Mr S said he was happy with the decision. Tesco said it had nothing further to add/agreed  
with the decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  not added anything  further I see no reason to change  my provisional 
decision. I still consider  it a fair way to put things right, for the reasons already given.
my final decision
My final decision is to direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to rework the credit card of Mr S 
as if the transaction for the £340  gift card had not been made  removing any interest  and 
charges that may have been applied to this transaction. If this results in a credit balance  it 
should pay this directly to Mr S plus interest at 8% simple per year calculated from the date 
of said credit balance  to the date of settlement.
If Tesco considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
the interest award  it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  &
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1024627