K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the price he was offered when his building and contents insurance 
policy held with Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) renewed in 2016.
background
Mr H had a buildings and contents insurance  policy with Gresham  taken out via his bank. 
The policy started in May 2007 and automatically  renewed every year until it was cancelled  
in May 2016.  
When Mr H received his renewal in April 2016  it was priced at £410.84.  He contacted his 
bank and the price  was reduced to £295.06.
Mr H wants to know why there is such a large  difference between the renewal  price, and the 
price he received when  he contacted  his bank. He doesnt think hes being treated fairly  
despite being a loyal customer. He believes the inflated price at renewal is subsidising  the 
new business quotes received by others.  Hes compared quotes from various different  
providers, including his own bank, and all quotes are considerably  less than the renewal hes 
received. Mr H believes hes been  overpaying for his insurance and he wants  a refund.
Gresham disagree and say that nothing has gone  wrong. Unhappy, with this Mr H referred 
the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator thought  Gresham hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably.  But Mr H 
disagrees, so the matter  has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to
Mr H, so Id like to explain  why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its 
insurance should cost.  I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role.
I appreciate that Mr H thinks that hes paying an inflated price so insurers can then give 
discounts to new customers. But looking specifically at Mr Hs pricing  journey I dont  think  
this is the case.
customer journey 2007 - 2016
Gresham has explained  that when Mr H took out his policy  in May 2007 it cost £245.99. The 
following year he received a cash back bonus  and paid £243.53, which  meant  he paid a 
lower premium than the previous year. In 2009 there was a claim, so Mr Hs no claims 
discount was reduced  which had an impact  on the following  years  premium. 
Ref: DRN10422452With Mr Hs policy, Gresham  says the gradual  increases that occurred thereafter, were due 
to the initial discounts and cash offers being recouped  and the increases in IPT (as shown in 
the table  above).  It says the increases each year were to bring the policys  cost up to the 
true cost of the risk associated with insuring Mr Hs property, alongside the levels  of cover  
provided, under the policy.
In this case it would  seem that each time the policy premium  went  higher than £400  Mr H 
contacted his bank  to discuss  the premium.  He contacted them  in 2012, 2014 and 2016 and 
the bank reduced  his premium each time. 
Mr H thinks because he got a discount in 2016 and because he got an alternative policy  with 
another insurer  and obtained  lower quotes  from his own bank in 2016, this shows  he was 
being overcharged. He thinks insurers use auto-renewal to overcharge  loyal consumers so 
they can provide  discounts to other new customers.
I understand why Mr H thinks this. But its clear that insurers who offer discounted prices at 
the beginning  will attempt to recoup these discounts through  the continued renewal or auto-
renewal of that particular  policy.  Thats what Gresham has done  in this particular case. And I 
think it's fair that an insurer  recoups that discount  over the subsequent years. I dont think its 
fair to expect an insurer to maintain that discount  for the duration someone  has their policy. 
As a consumer Mr H wasnt locked into this policy. And even though  Mr H does point out that 
Gresham dont tell you specifically that youll get a discount if you call, I can see from the 
renewal letters that Mr H was encouraged  to call if he wasnt  renewing or wanted to discuss  
the policy. So, I dont  think the business did anything wrong here.
Just because a policy premium is higher compared  to what  may be available  elsewhere in 
the market doesnt, in my view, mean  that something has gone wrong. The insurance  market 
is very competitive.  And different insurers may well take varied views on risk and the price  
that they need  to charge to cover  that. New policies  also generally include new customer  
discounts, and these  invariably need to be recouped over a period  of time to make the policy 
commercially viable. So, the new policy Mr H obtained, while  cheaper at the outset,  is also 
likely to increase in price. Further to this his bank has advised that the alternative  quote  he 
received (but didnt  take out) was for buildings cover only and didnt include the contents  
cover he had on his original policy. So, I cant compare this policy to the one he already had 
as its quite different.  
For those reasons, I dont  think  it would  be fair to compare the difference in cost between
the policy Mr H had and the policy he subsequently obtained. While Mr H, when he decided 
to shop  around in 2016, obtained a cheaper  policy  this doesnt automatically mean that 
Gresham had treated Mr H unfairly during the years he had the policy.
Overall Gresham has shown that the increases  in Mr Hs premiums  were  due to it recouping 
any initial discounts or offers applied to his policy. And as Ive said, I think its fair for an 
insurer to do this. I can also see that Mr H engaged  with his bank when he felt the premiums 
became too high for him. The renewals from the bank encouraged  Mr H to get in contact  to 
discuss, and I can see that he did this. So, I havent  seen anything  to suggest that Gresham  
increased Mr Hs premiums unfairly or did anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN10422453Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1042245