K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs L took out in 1999 alongside a mortgage 
which she arranged at a Halifax  branch.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold her complaint. Mrs L disagreed with this view. Mrs L is mainly  
concerned that it wasnt made clear to her that PPI was optional. Mrs L also says she had 
secure employment and reliable other  means she couldve  depended on if she wasn't 
working. 
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mrs L bought PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Mrs L to remember all the details of a conversation that happened such  a long time 
ago. I have to look at everything and decide,  on balance, what I think is most likely.
Mrs Ls mortgage application includes a section which gives  brief details about the benefits 
of PPI. It says We recommend that you consider  our Mortgage Repayments Insurance  
Scheme. (this is what Halifax called its PPI). So I think it wouldve been clear  from this 
wording that it was up to Mrs L to say if she wanted  to have PPI with her mortgage. 
Mrs L has signed where it says: Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance.
And Ive seen the separate application form Mrs L completed to have  the PPI added  on to 
her mortgage account. Shes provided personal information and answered questions  
designed to see if she qualified for PPI. She also applied for some additional benefit for 
mortgage related  costs.  And shes signed the form at the end to say she wishes  to apply for 
the cover.
On balance, I find that Halifax made Mrs L aware that the policy was optional  and that she 
chose to have  it.
Halifax recommended  PPI to Mrs L. So it had to take reasonable steps to ensure  the policy 
was right for her. Looking  at what Mrs L has told us about her circumstances at the time 
I think the policy was a suitable recommendation. 
Mrs L was eligible for the cover. Although Mrs L told us she was entitled  to sick pay and she 
had some other means  she couldve relied on, this doesnt mean that the PPI was unsuitable 
for her needs. 
Ref: DRN10307442PPI wouldve  paid out on top of any employment  benefits for up to 24 months per claim if 
Mrs L was too sick to work or if she lost her job and was involuntarily unemployed. 
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.  Redundancy benefits  
wouldnt have helped  if Mrs L was off work  sick. PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any 
redundancy money she mightve got, giving Mrs L some additional financial security if shed 
lost her job.  
After going back  to work for a qualifying period  between each claim, Mrs L couldve claimed 
again under  the policy if shed needed  to. And she couldve kept on doing this for as long as 
she had her mortgage. Her mortgage  was a substantial  financial commitment repayable over 
a number of years. PPI couldve provided Mrs L with long term cover while she was paying 
for her home. I find that PPI provided Mrs L with worthwhile protection  she wouldnt have 
otherwise had.
Mrs L has mentioned that she had endowment  policies set up. But, it looks  like Mrs L 
preferred to keep  these  intact, or she had other plans for that money, since she chose not to 
cash these in when  taking out this mortgage. Having PPI meant Mrs L could keep her 
endowments running to cash  in later or provide her with financial security.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if they applied  to Mrs L. 
So, I dont think having more information about those things wouldve affected her decision  
to take out the policy. 
The approximate PPI cost was shown on the application form she signed to arrange PPI. So 
I think Mrs L probably wouldve had an idea about  the likely cost and it seems  to have been 
acceptable to her at the time.  I havent seen anything to suggest that paying for the policy  
was a problem  for Mrs L. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mrs L still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been  better  informed as PPI gave 
her useful protection in her particular situation.  I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give back  Mrs L some of the commission  
she paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont  apply to certain  types 
of mortgage agreement  including a regulated  mortgage. As Mrs Ls mortgage  became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So Halifax doesnt  need to refund 
any of the commission  Mrs L paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage. 
Ref: DRN10307443my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1030744