K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI)  declined  her travel insurance claim.  My 
references to UKI include its agents and emergency  assistance service.
background
Mrs M has travel insurance through her bank  account, the insurer  is UKI.
While Mrs M was abroad on holiday  she became unwell with a urinary  infection. She saw a 
local doctor and the antibiotics s/he prescribed made Mrs M feel worse. She decided to cut 
short her trip and return home. Mrs M spoke to UKIs emergency assistance  team  before she 
returned home. She claimed for the additional travel costs and accommodation  costs  the 
hotel wouldnt refund.
UKI declined  the claim. It said there was no medical  evidence that Mrs M needed to return 
home early and she hadnt  called its emergency assistance service to get authorisation.
Our investigator thought UKI had fairly  declined  the claim. 
Mrs M disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans decision. She says if UKI had told her she 
needed a doctor's report or its authorisation to return home  early  she would have got it. Her 
GP had told UKI she went to see him on her return home but he couldnt categorically  say 
she needed to cut short her holiday as he didnt  see her abroad.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M as I dont doubt she felt unwell while  she was abroad. But 
I dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain  why.
The policy covers certain  costs if Mrs M has to return home from a trip early because she is 
seriously ill. 
The policy also says Mrs M had to have relevant medical evidence  and that UKI wont  pay a 
claim for costs not authorised by its emergency  assistance service before she returned 
home. Those or similar  requirements are standard to most travel insurance policies.
Mrs M did phone  UKIs emergency assistance service. She explained she was unwell and 
was due to see a doctor. Mrs M says she also discussed her potential need to return home 
early but theres  no record of UKI authorising her to do so.
I have to decide whether UKI fairly and reasonably declined the claim. So even if UKI didnt 
authorise Mrs Ms early return,  I may still think its fair for UKI to pay her claim if there was 
enough evidence  that it was medically necessary for her to return  home early.   
Theres no medical report from the doctor Mrs M saw abroad  to say it was medically 
necessary, which  UKI would have taken into account in deciding to give authority for her 
early return.   
Ref: DRN13274212Mrs M says UKI didnt make it clear that she had to get a report  from the doctor. But even  if 
thats right I have to look at what other  evidence there is to decide if UKI can fairly say her 
early return  wasn't medically  necessary.
UKIs notes  show that when it discussed  the circumstances of the claim Mrs M said she 
hadnt returned to the doctor  abroad  to tell her/him the antibiotics were making her unwell or 
sought other medical advice there.  She made the decision to come home. So Mrs M didnt 
try alternative antibiotics to see if that would help her urinary infection. Im not persuaded the 
doctor abroad would  have  said it was medically  necessary  for her to cut short  her holiday.
Mrs Ms GP in the UK wrote  to UKI saying:  
 
The decision  to return was not made by this practice and we had not assessed  the patient  at 
the time.  Broad spectrum antibiotics were used which  would usually denote a severe 
infection however  we have no medical reports upon  which to objectively comment.  Clearly  
the patient was unwell and there  are circumstances where return to UK might be indicated if 
possible deterioration or additional investigations  were felt necessary and unavailable on a 
(named location).
The letter also details the consultation Mrs M had with the GP when she returned home:
Felt V unwell on antibiotics so stopped them - had 2 days (of named antibiotics)  only
was feeling better but now dysuria  (pain on urination) again.
A urine  test was done.  There's no evidence of the results or that Mrs M needed emergency 
treatment following the test. The medical  evidence  from the GP doesnt show it was 
medically necessary  for Mrs M to return home early.
Looking at the overall evidence, Im satisfied UKI fairly and reasonably  declined  the claim.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1327421