K820x#14complaint
Both Mr S complain  about transactions on their account being blocked   on two occasions  
while they were overseas.  They say the account  shouldnt have been blocked as they made  
the bank aware  they were going  abroad, and this has caused them a great deal of distress 
and inconvenience  which theyd like to be compensated  for.  
background
Mr S holds a joint bank account  with Bank  of Scotland (T/A Halifax)  [Halifax]  along  with 
Mr S (2). In October  2018 they went abroad, but a few days after they arrived,  while  
completing an online transaction, the transaction was blocked. Mr S contacted  Halifax to 
explain where he was and asked for the transaction to be completed, which it was. But three  
days later,  another transaction was stopped again. This time Mr S was unable to contact  
Halifax straight away to confirm the transaction so the account was blocked.  Mr S says when 
he contacted Halifax after that block he had trouble getting through telephone security.  So 
he had to call again some days later to get the account unblocked.
In November 2018 Mr S complained about the matter. He said Halifaxs actions had caused  
them both a great deal of distress and inconvenience and he believed they had incurred 
costs of £150 in that respect. He wanted  a full explanation for why the account had been 
blocked twice  in a few days   despite having made  Halifax aware that they were abroad.  He 
said the poor communication facilities where  he was staying  meant hed had to travel  to 
larger towns just to be able to contact Halifax and get his account unblocked.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. It said  although Mr S had made it aware  they were 
abroad, it wouldnt stop its usual security measures for that reason. It said in this case  the 
two transactions  were  selected for additional  security checks,  which were subsequently 
approved  although it did have  to suspend the account the second time as Mr S hadnt  
been able to make contact to confirm things. It said it wouldnt pay £150   as had been  
requested, but would be prepared to refund any telephone call costs  hed suffered. 
Unhappy with this response Mr S brought the complaint  to us where it was considered by 
one of our investigators. She said, although she accepted Mr S had made Halifax  aware the 
account holders  were  going abroad, Halifax had a responsibility to protect  the account and 
wouldnt be expected  to disable its security mechanisms in such  a situation. She said Halifax  
had acted reasonably and  although  the second  check on the same  transaction  had been 
unusual, there were other factors  that could have  led to the additional check.  
Mr S disagreed. He said when they made a telephone call on 5 October 2018 they made 
Halifax aware of their location and the account was unblocked. He thinks  Halifax ignored all 
reference to this call on its systems  when  it decided to block the same type of transaction  
some days  later. He says this caused a great  deal of inconvenience and amounted to 
negligence  on Halifaxs  behalf.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see both Mr S feel strongly about 
Ref: DRN19941882this issue as they believe there was no need for these additional checks  on the transactions  
 particularly the second one  as Mr S had made  Halifax aware they were  abroad. And I 
have some sympathy for their position  and understand the frustration of seeing the account 
blocked through no fault of their own. 
But, in order  to uphold  this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Halifax made an error 
here, or acted unreasonably, which I dont think it did. I know this outcome will disappoint 
both Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr S made two transactions which were stopped for additional 
checks by Halifax. And theres no dispute  that, after Mr S contacted  Halifax  it authorised  the 
transactions and reinstated the account. So Im satisfied Mr S was able to complete  his 
purchases and hasnt lost out financially as a result. 
What Mr S has said is that Halifax acted unreasonably  and used the pretext  of security to 
explain why it blocked his account  the second  time  for what was the same type of 
transaction as the first one.
Halifax, like most banks,  uses automated  triggers on its systems to help protect customers 
accounts from fraud. On this occasion its system identified  a possible issue with two of Mr S 
transactions. Considering Mr S was abroad  and using locations  he probably wouldnt have 
used before it doesnt seem unreasonable to me for Halifaxs  system to have a detected a 
potential issue. I appreciate Mr S said he made Halifax  aware  that they were going abroad   
and I think he acted  responsibly by doing  that  but I dont think  that would mean  Halifax 
would lessen its security  processes for that reason.
I know Halifax has said it is unusual for the same  transaction to be subject to additional 
checks twice, but that doesnt mean  it shouldnt  have  happened or that there was a good  
reason to do so. Halifax says the second transaction took place many  miles from the first 
one so its not unreasonable to think that there  was sufficient difference to treat them 
separately and carry out additional checks on both occasions. I dont think it was wrong  for 
Halifax to take that course of action  to monitor the account for any potential  issues  while 
both account holders  were abroad. Indeed I consider this to be good banking  practice.
Ive looked at the section  when can we refuse  to act on an instruction in Halifaxs terms and 
conditions for current accounts.  It lists 10 separate reasons  for refusing to make a 
payment,  including  
the payment  seems  unusual compared with the way you normally use your 
account, in which  case we may investigate further  
we reasonably believe that you or someone  else has used, is using  or 
obtaining, or may use or obtain a service or money illegally or fraudulently.
So I think Halifaxs terms and conditions set out clearly the reasons why it might undertake  
additional checks on transactions  within the account, and I think its acted in accordance with 
those terms and conditions. Ultimately here the security in place was for the protection  of all 
the account holders and I think its a matter  for Halifax to decide  when  to implement the 
security. Of course the automated nature of the systems means its not possible to be 
specific about the actual reason a transaction might  be investigated. But I dont think  Halifax  
has done anything  wrong by its actions  here.  
Mr S (2) says theyd made  it clear  to Halifax that they were  abroad and would require 
banking services to be available so they didnt want any restrictions  on the account. He says 
Ref: DRN19941883they were staying in a small  town without overseas phone  facilities.  He thinks  Halifax didnt 
appreciate their position and that it caused them a great deal of inconvenience in travelling 
to find somewhere they could contact Halifax. As well as being unable to use the account in 
that time.
And I share Mr S (2)s frustration that from time to time we all experience some inconvenience 
when dealing with financial firms.  But I dont think Halifax did intentionally cause any 
inconvenience here. It gave Mr S the chance  to confirm his identity as soon as the transactions 
had been stopped. And I note in the first case  Halifax  says the transaction  was authorised within  
23 minutes. Unfortunately on the second  occasion  Mr S wasnt  able to make contact with Halifax 
 but I dont think it was Halifaxs  fault that Mr S had travelled to an area that didnt have very 
good communications. He had made Halifax aware he was abroad but I dont think it would be 
fair to expect  Halifax to lessen its security arrangements because  the account  holders might be 
difficult to contact. 
I dont think Halifax has caused  inconvenience to the extent that a compensatory  award is 
warranted, so Im not going to ask Halifax to make any payment. But I have noted  that Halifax 
has offered to cover the cost of any telephone  calls Mr S had to make.  Im not going to comment 
on the offer as I havent asked Halifax to pay anything to both Mr S, but I would suggest that they 
contact Halifax to see if they can agree to the extent of any possible refund.  However  its for 
Halifax to decide  how much it is willing to pay.
.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask both Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1994188