K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained about the boiler  repair cover she has with SSE Home  Services  
Limited (SSE). Shes  unhappy  about  the time slots in which an engineer visited her house 
to fix her boiler.
background
Miss F had a problem  with her boiler and claimed on her boiler  repair cover with SSE.  An 
engineer visited  her house  on 24 January  2019, but needed a part so the boiler  could be 
fixed. An engineer returned with the part to fix the boiler on 29 January.
Miss F has complained that:
On 24 January the engineer arrived before the agreed time, and left a card saying he 
couldnt access the property - she had to call SSE about  this.
On 29 January she had to wait in all day for the engineer, but the engineer didnt 
arrive until 5.15pm.  Because of this she lost a days income.  And the engineer  only 
called her 15 minutes beforehand, not the 30 minutes  SSE said he would.
Her complaint  acknowledgement letter and final complaint response letter from SSE 
were both dated 5 February, and she received the acknowledgement after she 
received the final response. 
Our adjudicator found SSE had acted reasonably. She felt SSE had given Miss F time slots 
for the engineers visits, and the engineers  had visited within those time slots. She also felt 
that SSE had acted reasonably by arranging for the engineer to revisit  Miss Ms house on 24 
January because the engineer had originally arrived before Miss Ms preferred time. She 
also didnt think that SSE could be held responsible for any delays in the postal service.
Miss F didnt agree with the adjudicator.  She feels SSE broke the agreement  by the engineer 
visiting before he was due on 24 January. She also says she lost a days  income by having 
to wait in for an engineer on 29 January, and SSE shouldve given her a morning or 
afternoon slot instead. She thinks the engineer  only calling 15 minutes  before arriving  on the 
29 January visit was an unacceptable lack of communication.
Miss F has also said that its not usual practice for acknowledgement and final complaint 
letters to be dated  the same day, and that the adjudicator  has ignored that fact that she 
never received SSEs Terms and Conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10115702engineers visit on 24 January  2019
Ive seen SSEs case notes for Miss Fs breakdown policy, and these show  she was booked  
an afternoon appointment for this visit. This means  the engineer could arrive anytime 
between 1pm and 6pm.  But Miss F had told SSE that she didnt  leave work  until 1pm and 
asked if the engineer could arrive  after 1.30pm. SSE agreed  to this.
On the day of the visit the engineer was running  ahead of schedule.  He called Miss F at 
12.50pm to let her know he was on his way, but there was no answer. The engineer  arrived 
at Miss Fs house at 1.20pm. He called her mobile and landline  numbers but these calls 
werent answered. He knocked on Miss Fs door,  but it wasnt answered. Because of this he 
left a card to say hed called, and went on to his next job.
Miss F has said she was at home at 1.20pm, but didnt hear her phones or the knock on the 
door. Because of this she missed  the engineer. At 1.24pm Miss F called SSE about  the 
missed visit, and SSE arranged for the engineer to go back  the same day.
I appreciate that the engineer visited Miss Fs house before she was expecting him, and she 
was frustrated by his. But the engineer visited within the afternoon  appointment time slot. 
The engineer tried to call Miss F before he arrived at her house,  and again when he arrived 
at her house. He also knocked the door to let Miss F know hed arrived.  While its 
unfortunate Miss F didnt hear her phones or the knock  at the door, I dont think the engineer 
couldve done anything  more. I also think that SSE acted reasonably by arranging  for the 
engineer to go back to Miss Fs house once shed let them know  what happened.
engineers visit on 29 January  2019
SSE told Miss F that this visit would  be an all day appointment.  This meant  the engineer 
could arrive anytime between 8am and 6pm. I appreciate Miss F was unhappy  with this, and 
wouldve preferred  a morning or afternoon appointment. SSE said this wasnt possible. They 
explained that the engineer wouldve needed  to make sure the parts had arrived  on the day 
of the visit, so arranging a shorter  time slot couldnt  be agreed beforehand.
The engineer wouldve  had a number of jobs that day. While each job would have an 
estimated time to complete, jobs could take longer or shorter than expected.  Also travel  time 
between jobs could  be longer or shorter than expected because of local traffic conditions.  
Because of this, I agree it wasnt reasonable for SSE to have provided a shorter  time slot.
SSE also expects their engineers to call beforehand,  to let customers  know theyre on their 
way. SSE have said it isnt always possible  for this call to be made 30 minutes before the 
engineers arrival. Calls are dependent on the engineer being able to get a phone  signal, on 
the distance between jobs, and on local traffic conditions. The engineer called  Miss F 15 
minutes before he arrived. Given the circumstances, I cant say this was unreasonable.
Waiting in for an engineers visit can be frustrating, especially if youve something else you 
could be doing.  So I can understand  why Miss F is unhappy the engineer arrived  towards the 
very end of the time slot she was given. But Ive seen that SSE wrote to her on 2 March  
2018 about her policy  that renewed  on 23 March.  Because of a change in the product, this 
letter included a Policy  Booklet. Ive seen the Policy Booklet, which says that engineer  visits 
will be scheduled for our core working  hours  between  8am and 8pm Monday to Friday. 
So I cant say that Miss F didnt have the terms and conditions  of her policy with SSE.
Ref: DRN10115703Boiler repair  cover  policies of this type usually  come with estimated time slots, rather than a 
specific time when an engineer will arrive. This is for the reasons Ive mentioned above. So I 
cant say that SSE should compensate Miss F for a days  lost income because the engineer 
arrived within the time slot they said he would, even though it was near the end of that slot.
complaint correspondence
Complaint handling  is not a regulated activity,  so this isnt something I can consider. But I 
have seen SSE called Miss F on 4 February,  acknowledging her complaint verbally, and with 
the intention of discussing her complaint with her. The next day SSE sent Miss F a written 
acknowledgement to her complaint, and their final response. Its unusual  that the 
acknowledgement and final decision are done  on the same day, but I can see this is what 
happened. Im pleased  that SSE dealt with Miss Fs complaint points in their final response.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about SSE Home 
Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1011570