K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the credit card he had with Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis).  
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to Mr E when talking about him or his representative.
In 2016 Mr E applied  online for a credit card with Vanquis. Vanquis then phoned him and 
asked some further questions before approving his application with a £150 limit. 
Mr E used the credit card throughout 2018.  But in late 2018 he stopped  making payments 
towards his debt. Vanquis wrote to him alongside his statements to make him aware of this. 
In the letters  they told him to contact them if he was struggling to make  his payments. But no 
payments were made  and the credit card defaulted in early 2019.
Mr E later came to us with a number of complaints  about Vanquis. These included:
1.He shouldnt have  been sold the credit card. He said it was both unaffordable  and 
irresponsible given  his credit  history.
2.The credit  card was mis-sold  to him because  he wasnt given enough  information.  
Mr E showed us a report from a credit reference  agency (agency)  which showed he had 
multiple defaults before he took out his Vanquis  credit card.
We shared his complaints with Vanquis and asked them  to respond.  Vanquis  didnt uphold  
them. They said theyd carried out proportionate checks to the amount of credit they gave. 
Theyd confirmed Mr Es income at nearly £30,000 a year and checked his credit  file. 
They said they were  aware of a defaulted  debt but that this was over three  years  before. 
They noted  Mr E had no other active credit at the time. 
Mr E remained unhappy  and asked us to look at his concerns.  Mr E also raised further 
complaints. These included:
3.That he wasnt given enough  support by Vanquis when he was in financial difficulties.
4.That when he later contacted Vanquis to pay off the debt, they wouldnt let him do so. 
Mr E told us that he called  Vanquis in late 2018 to try to arrange a payment plan because  
theyd frozen  his online account.  But he said Vanquis wouldnt let him set up a plan until he 
used his credit card.  He explained  Vanquis  had also frozen his credit card so he couldnt use 
it. Our investigator asked  for more information about  this. Mr E then told us that he spoke  to 
several advisors at Vanquis to try and settle the account. But Vanquis  told him he didnt owe 
anything, so he became fed up with chasing  them. 
Vanquis told us they had no record  Mr E had ever contacted  them about the debt. They  said 
theyd tried to call him repeatedly and sent 15 letters about the debt but couldnt get in 
contact.
Our investigator thought Vanquis  had acted fairly and didnt uphold any of Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E remained unhappy.  So, its been  passed  to me to decide. 
Mr E has since told us that he didnt receive  any correspondence about  the debt.
Ref: DRN19179142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those I consider 
to be materially relevant to this complaint.  But Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made before  arriving at my decision.
irresponsible and unaffordable lending
Ive started by considering Mr Es concerns about whether he should have been given his 
credit card in the first place. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints  about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.  And Ive referred to this when  deciding Mr Es complaint. 
The rules  and regulations require Vanquis  to carry out reasonable checks to establish  if a 
customer can afford to repay  the credit in a sustainable way. The checks  should be 
proportionate - and this will depend on several things, for example, the amount to be 
borrowed. 
Mr E said the lending was irresponsible given  his credit history.  Ive reviewed the credit  
report Mr E provided us and its clear  that at that time, he had several  defaults  from earlier in 
2016. So, I can understand  why he said this. Yet Vanquis said they didnt have this 
information. So, Ive looked at whether theres  a reasonable explanation for this. 
Vanquiss records suggest they used one of the three major agencies  for their credit  check.  
Ive seen evidence  of Vanquiss  checks which dont  show  the 2016  defaulted  debt. And Im 
also aware lenders  dont  always  report  to all of the major agencies. So, its not uncommon 
for debt to appear  in one credit  report  and not others. Given  this, I think its likely  Vanquis 
were unaware of the more recent defaults on Mr Es other credit files because the report  
they received  didnt  contain this information.
So, Ive then considered whether the nature  of the credit check  Vanquis did was reasonable 
in the circumstances. Vanquis checked  one of the three main  agencies which  is something  I 
would expect. Theres no requirement on lenders to check more than one agency. But as 
explained above, I would expect checks to be proportionate to the lending.  However, this 
was a relatively low amount of credit and so I dont think it called for additional checks. 
Im also satisfied there was nothing  in the application notes  or the call with Mr E which  would 
have given Vanquis reason to question the results of their check.  For all of these reasons, I 
think Vanquis credit check was reasonable in the circumstances. And given the information  
Ive seen from the check, Im satisfied that Vanquiss  decision to lend to Mr E was not 
irresponsible. Whilst Vanquis  didnt have all the information about Mr Es true financial 
position, I dont  think this was because of anything they did wrong. So, I dont think they 
acted unreasonably. 
Mr E also told us this credit card was unaffordable for him. The call recording and the 
application record show Vanquis asked several  questions before approving Mr Es 
application. This included details about  his income,  living situation and whether his 
Ref: DRN19179143circumstances were  likely to change  in the next six months. They  didnt ask Mr E detailed  
questions about  his expenses. But given the relatively low amount of credit given, I wouldnt 
necessarily expect them to. Ive also seen evidence that their credit check suggested Mr E 
had no other  active credit  and that this was considered as part of his application.  And based 
on my findings above, I dont think its unreasonable they relied on this information. 
So, having  reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied Vanquis took reasonable steps to check 
affordability. Im also satisfied that based  on the information they had, there  was nothing to 
suggest the amount they lent was unaffordable for Mr E. 
mis-sale
Then Ive looked  at how the credit card was sold, including the information given to Mr E. 
Ive reviewed the particular concerns he had about  this, for example repayment  costs  and 
continuous payment  authority. And I cant find any evidence  which  suggests to me the credit 
card was mis-sold.  For example, the interest  rates were outlined  clearly during Mr Es phone 
call with Vanquis more  than once. Mr E also signed  a copy of his terms and conditions with 
this information  when he applied online for the credit card.  And Mr E was repeatedly asked 
on the application phone call if he had any further  questions  about his credit  card or account. 
So, he was also given  the opportunity to check information or ask about anything  he was 
uncertain of. 
So, Im satisfied Mr E was either given the relevant information directly or given access  to it 
in the documents provided to him. Overall,  I dont think Vanquis did anything wrong here. 
paying off the debt
Mr E told us he tried to contact Vanquis to pay off his debt or arrange a payment plan but 
couldnt. Vanquis have told us they have no record of any attempts by Mr E to contact them. 
Where evidence conflicts, I need  to decide  whats more likely to have happened.  
Vanquis showed us account notes detailing their contact with Mr E and there  is no record  of 
any contact at that time. I also noted  it would have  been in Vanquiss interest to allow Mr E 
to pay his debt as this was money they were owed. All of this supports their account that 
Mr E never contacted  them.  And whilst weve asked Mr E for evidence of his attempts to call, 
hes been unable  to provide this. Having reviewed Mr Es credit file, I can see he had other  
debt at that time which he was not making any payments towards.  
So, whilst I cant  say for definite what happened, I dont think theres enough evidence to 
support Mr Es account that he contacted Vanquis. Given this, Im not persuaded Vanquis 
prevented Mr E from making payments and I cant say they did anything  wrong  here.
financial difficulties
Mr E says he was not given enough  support when in financial difficulties. Given my findings 
above, Ive got no evidence  Mr F made  Vanquis  aware he was in financial difficulties. But I 
would expect Vanquis to notice  when  account  activity might indicate this. 
Having reviewed Mr Es statements, I dont think there were signs of any difficulties until 
Mr E stopped making payments  in late 2018.  Before  then, Mr E was generally  under his limit 
and making regular payments above the minimum amount. Mr E did miss a payment, but 
Ref: DRN19179144Vanquis spoke to him about this and he explained  he was paid late. Similarly, Mr E went 
over his limit, but soon  made a payment  towards his debt and brought  it back under.
At the point Mr E missed several  payments in late 2018, I think  Vanquis  had evidence  he 
may be in financial  difficulties. And where  a business is aware a customer  is struggling 
financially, I would expect  them to do what  they can to help. There  are no set rules on what  
is required, but Id expect  them to try to understand the difficulties so that they can work out 
what a customer could  afford and what might  help their particular circumstances. But this 
action relies upon the customer speaking with the business. And the evidence indicates  this 
didnt happen.  I cant expect Vanquis  to have done much more for Mr E when they had no 
information about his circumstances. 
So, Ive then thought about  what Vanquis  did to try to contact Mr E. 
Vanquis wrote to him advising what was owed. And in the letters, they told Mr E to contact 
them if he was having problems making  his payments. Mr E has told us he didnt receive any 
correspondence. But Ive noted he received a new credit card which  Vanquis told us was 
sent to the same address  in early 2018. So, I dont see any reason why he wouldnt have 
continued to receive  his statements and the enclosed letters.  Given  this, I think  its likely 
Mr E did receive this information.  And the letters show Vanquis did offer to help. 
Vanquis have also told us they tried repeatedly to call Mr E but couldnt  make  contact. And I 
have no reason to doubt this. Overall, Im satisfied they took reasonable steps to try to 
contact Mr E. 
Defaulting the account stopped Mr Es debt increasing. Given Vanquis  hadnt had any 
contact or any payments  in six months,  it seems to me this was fair in these circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  I don't  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1917914