K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) acted unfairly  and unreasonably 
in failing to contact them to offer a lower  interest  rate for their current mortgage. They want 
compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs G had an interest only mortgage with BoI. They  said that from 2012 BoI couldve 
offered them  a lower  interest rate, which wouldve allowed them to reduce the capital 
balance. It wasnt until 2018  that Mr and Mrs G spoke to BoI and found out that they could 
have a lower rate. They feel BoI shouldve  contacted  them  in 2012 and wanted the 
overpayments they wouldve  made  credited to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs G also said that 
theyd struggled to pay the mortgage at times.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to BoI. It said that it wrote  to them  in 2012  and told them that it 
might be possible to get a lower  interest  rate  the letter asked  Mr and Mrs G to contact BoI. 
It also said that it wasnt made aware  of any financial difficulties  by Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to us. Mr G accepted that they mightve received a letter from BoI 
in 2012, though he doesnt remember it, but it was possible they ignored  the letter. Mr G felt 
BoI shouldve written  more than once. The adjudicators view was that BoI wasnt  at fault. He 
said that the mortgage offer told Mr and Mrs G when the fixed  interest  rate ended,  and the 
annual mortgage  statements  told them  each  year about the interest rate being  applied. The 
adjudicator noted  Mr G had previously  had a mortgage so shouldve  been aware that 
different products were offered, and BoI wasnt responsible for any incorrect  assumptions  
made by Mr and Mrs G about having  to move to another lender. He noted that BoI did write 
in 2012 about interest  rates and it was Mr and Mrs Gs responsibility to review their accounts 
and contact BoI.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed.  They said BoI shouldve made  more  of an effort  and that it had 
been negligent, though  they accepted that they couldve contacted  BoI earlier.  Mr and Mrs G 
said that they hadnt been able to get a mortgage from elsewhere.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders arent required to contact  consumers and let them know  that it has other  products 
which they might be interested in exploring. Lenders  are expected  to set out clearly in 
mortgage offers (which  have to be accepted by consumers to get the mortgage) when any 
special interest arrangements end, and let the consumer know that the interest rate is 
changing. BoI did both of these things in Mr and Mrs Gs case; it wasnt required to do more.
Ref: DRN18621312And I note that Mr G accepts that he and his wife mightve received the letter sent in 2012 
about interest rates, but said he often  doesnt  read letters from lenders. That is his choice, 
but BoI isnt responsible for this, or reviewing Mr and Mrs Gs finances. The annual mortgage 
statements also sets out the interest rates being charged. Theres no suggestion that BoI in 
some way was responsible for Mr and Mrs Gs incorrect  belief  that they would have to go to 
another lender to get a cheaper deal, particularly as Mr G had been a previous customer.  
Being unable to get a mortgage from another lender  doesnt mean the current  lender has no 
products available, and BoI isnt responsible for the actions of other lenders. Mr and Mrs G 
accept that they couldve  contacted BoI earlier. I dont think BoI has acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably in dealing with the interest  rate for Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage.
I considered whether BoI was at fault in relation to the financial difficulties Mr and Mrs G 
have said that they suffered. But as the mortgage wasnt in arrears (overpayments were  
made) and Mr and Mrs G didnt let BoI know, I cant say that it acted unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my 
decision before  18 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1862131