K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased  
the credit  limit on his credit card account  to a level that was unaffordable.
background
Mr M says Barclaycard irresponsibly increased his credit card limit and ignored his ability  to 
repay the debt and his own vulnerability.  He questions if Barclaycard considered his other 
debts at the time or his income and the affordability  of those increases. Mr M says he was 
withdrawing cash from the account to spend  on gambling and Barclaycard should have 
considered that. Mr M also says Barclaycard failed to consider his health,  age and income 
and expenditure.  He would like the debt written  off and for Barclaycard to take responsibility 
for its irresponsible  lending. Mr M also complains about threatened legal action about the 
debt and that Barclaycard has sold the debt
Barclaycard says it sold the debt and so Mr M should take up any concerns about  legal 
action with the company it sold the debt to, and says its entitled to sell the debt. It says it 
increased the credit limit twice within the period of time complained about and properly 
considered both, taking into account Mr Ms income  and using its lending criteria.  
Barclaycard doesnt  accept the increases were irresponsible or unaffordable and says Mr M 
could have declined  the increases. It says Mr Ms account was up to date until December 
2015 but it cant monitor or dictate what a customer can or can not spend  money  on. And Mr 
M did not tell it about his gambling  or health problems.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and said that Barclaycard should  have  considered that at 
some point he had cleared the credit card balance in 2013/14 and his debt at the time of the 
increases was about £50,000.
Our investigator thought we could only look at the credit card limits over the six year period 
from when Mr M complained to Barclaycard and thought there were two increases in that 
time. The investigator didnt think Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly or that the lending was 
unaffordable. He thought  Mr M made regular payments  until December 2015 with no signs of 
obvious financial difficulties. He also thought it was Mr Ms responsibility to tell Barclaycard 
about any issues such as gambling problems or health issues but didnt think he had done 
so. The investigator  looked at Mr Ms credit file which  showed  that his financial problems 
started in 2016  some  time after the credit increases.
Mr M didnt  accept that view and questions why the investigator didnt consider the lowest 
level of credit and says his credit  file doesnt show his financial position in 2014/15. He also 
questions what information Barclaycard  had about  his income and says the payments were 
up to date due to his gambling  winnings. Mr M says the investigator ignored  his medical 
position.
The investigator reconsidered his view and came to the same  overall  view and again thought  
Mr M could  have declined  the credit  limit increases.
Mr M has asked  that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ref: DRN12696792Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  this complaint.
Ive looked at Barclaycards records and can see that the account was opened in 2008 and 
that there  were two credit limit increases in the time period complained  about.  I have  also 
looked at the account  terms and conditions which say that Barclaycard will review  an 
account and make changes to a credit limit by giving notice and that any increases can be 
rejected. So I dont think Barclaycard made  a mistake  or acted unfairly  by making  changes  to 
Mr Ms account and I think it gave him appropriate notice and that he could have rejected 
those increases. But I can see that he did not.
The key question is if those increases  were  affordable. And Ive come  to the overall  view that 
Barclaycard hasnt acted  irresponsibly here and that on the face of it the increases were  
affordable. Im satisfied  that Mr M made regular monthly payments before and after the 
increases and that Barclaycard considered the increases by carrying out its appropriate 
checks. I have also looked at Mr Ms credit file and I can see that he appeared to have been  
up to date on his other  credit agreements until 2016. So I think at the time of the two credit 
limit increases they were affordable and that Mr M made regular repayments  for some time 
after the dates  of the increases.
I appreciate that Mr M says he was able to make  those monthly repayments as he was using 
his gambling winnings.  But I dont think there  was any way Barclaycard could have  known 
that or known that Mr M had a gambling  problem. I have looked  at Barclaycards records and 
listened to the call that took place in December  2015  and I dont think  at any stage  before  
this complaint had Mr M told it about  his gambling problems. I also dont  think  that 
Barclaycard should  have  realised there  was a problem as Mr M was making  cash  
withdrawals and I think it was up to Mr M to decide  how he used  his account. If Mr M had 
told Barclaycard about either his gambling problems or health  difficulties  then I would have 
expected it to have provided support and help. But as I dont think he did tell it about those 
issues then I cant fairly  hold Barclaycard responsible for matters that it was unaware  of.
I dont think Barclaycard should have taken into account the lowest  level of credit  as I think  if 
Mr M wanted a lower credit  limit then he could have  asked  Barclaycard to do so. For the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think Barclaycard could  have known  about  the gambling  at that 
stage.
Overall Im satisfied Barclaycard did consider the affordability of the credit limit increases 
and gave Mr M notice of them. I think Mr M continued to make the appropriate repayments 
which suggest on balance  they were affordable. I also think  that Mr Ms financial position 
deteriorated in 2016 some time after the increases.  I appreciate that Mr M is unlikely to 
accept my decision but Im satisfied  that brings  and end to what  we in trying to sort out this 
complaint informally  can do. I also make  it clear that I have not considered the actions of the 
company Barclaycard sold Mr Ms debt to as that is subject to a separate complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Ref: DRN12696793David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1269679