K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about issues  hes experienced with a suite purchased with finance from 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc.
background
In April 2013 Mr N was supplied with a suite and entered into a fixed sum loan agreement  
with Hitachi. 
Mr N first experienced an issue with the suite in July 2014. These issues  have continued.
Mr N reported the issue  to the retailer  and Hitachi. The suite  was inspected on four separate  
occasions. None  of the inspections found a manufacturing defect but repairs were  carried  
out.
Mr N doesnt think the suite  is of satisfactory  quality. Hes unhappy that hes been without 
the suite for long periods of time whilst its been  repaired. He says hes currently been  
without the suite  for several months  because it was taken away for repair and hasnt been  
returned. He also feels that the suite was mis-sold because  the salesman told him the frame 
was made  from wood but hes discovered  its made from chipboard. Mr N complained to this 
service seeking a full refund.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that based on the findings in the 
inspection reports,  he wasnt persuaded that there was an inherent  fault with the suite at the 
point of supply.
Mr N didnt agree. He said hed obtained his own expert report  which found that the suite  
wasnt repairable due to poor design and construction.  He also said he didnt think  the 
inspections arranged by the retailer were independent.  Mr N said hed provided his own 
expert opinion  based  on his professional qualifications and he felt this hadnt been taken into 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N relies on the rights he has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. Because 
Hitachi has supplied the suite  under  a fixed sum loan agreement,  it is equally responsible 
with the supplier if theres been a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation. Theres  a legal 
requirement that the suite has to be of satisfactory  quality.  If it isnt of satisfactory quality, this 
is a breach of contract.
Mr N and Hitachi disagree about  whether the suite had an inherent fault at the point of 
supply. In order to reach  a decision  I need  to look at the available  evidence and determine, 
on the balance  of probabilities, whether the suite was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr N first reported  issues with the suite in July 2014, approximately 15 months  after the point 
of supply.
Ref: DRN12530642An expert report can help with deciding whether goods are of satisfactory quality. In this 
case, and following Mr Ns initial complaint to the supplier in July 2014, the suite was 
inspected. Further  inspections were carried out in July 2016, December 2017 and January 
2018.
Ive considered all four inspection reports very carefully. The first and second reports 
concluded that there was no manufacturing fault but couldnt determine the cause of the 
issue. The third report concluded  that mishandling had caused the frame to snap. The fourth 
report concluded that the frame had snapped due to excessive force. None of the reports  
identified an inherent  defect with the suite.
Ive also looked  at the report obtained  by Mr N. Ive noted that it concludes that the suite  is of 
poor design and construction.  However, Im unable  to treat this report as independent 
because it was commissioned by Mr N alone so I cant attach as much  evidential weight to it 
as the four independent  reports.
I appreciate that Mr N doesnt think that the inspections  arranged by the retailer were 
independent. Ive taken into account  Mr Ns comments about this but on balance, I dont 
agree. I havent seen  anything to suggest that the inspections werent carried  out to a 
professional standard. Nor can I conclude that the reports are biased  simply because they 
were paid for by the business.
Mr N has given his personal  opinion on the quality  of the suite and has mentioned his 
professional background. For reasons which I hope  Mr N will understand, Im unable to take 
his opinion into account because he is the complainant in this case.
Taking everything into consideration, and because  the weight of evidence suggests that 
there is no inherent fault with the suite, Im not persuaded  that the suite was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. So Im unable to conclude that theres been a breach of 
contract.
Ive also considered whether theres  been  a misrepresentation here. In order for me to find a 
misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the salesman made an untrue statement 
of fact which induced  Mr N to enter  into the agreement.
Mr N says he was told by the salesman that the frame of the suite was made of solid wood. 
There are no written  notes of the discussions which took place between Mr N and the 
salesman. I wasnt present so I cant be certain  of what was said. In circumstances like this I 
need to look at the available  evidence and decide  whats more likely to have been said.
Ive looked at the manufacturers website. The description of the suite  includes the statement 
that the frame  is engineered from a combination of solid wood with plywood. On balance, 
and because this information wouldve been  available to Mr N at the time of purchase,  Im 
unable to conclude  that theres  been a misrepresentation.
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. I think Hitachis response to the section 75 claim was fair and reasonable 
and I wont be asking  it to do anything.
Ref: DRN12530643my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1253064