K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that BMW  Financial  Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.  
background
In March 2015 Mr R acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The 
total repayable  under  the agreement was £38,691.59. Mr R was required  to make 47 
monthly payments  of £511.87 and there was a final optional payment of £14,633.70  if he 
wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr R had the right to terminate  the agreement  at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£19,345.80.
In 2018, Mr R chose  to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early.  After Mr R 
handed the car back, BMWFS later charged  him a further £3,615.21 as he had exceeded the 
mileage allowance  on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr R had an annual  mileage allowance  of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 9.28 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr R didnt think this charge was fair. He said that the termination  section of the agreement 
didnt state that BMWFS could charge anything more than £19,345.80,  as set out by Section 
99 and Section 100 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA). Further, he said the excess  
mileage section of the agreement  said they may charge. He said if they were  on safe legal 
ground to charge it then the wording  ought  to have  been more explicit. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the CCA. He also found  that the terms of the agreement  were clear 
around the possibility of an excess  mileage  charge being payable  on voluntary termination.
In summary,  he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable  under 
the hire purchase  agreement. It does not include charges  for items that are payable 
as compensation  for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Rs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
Ref: DRN13017052The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Rs accrued liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £3,615.21.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to charge  the additional amount. 
Mr R disagreed and said the charge wasnt fair. In summary, he said that the size of the 
excess mileage charge far outweighed  the difference in the cars value had it been returned  
within the allowed  mileage. Further, he said the Termination: Your  rights section of the 
agreement was ambiguous as it states  he could return  the car without further costs, but this 
wasnt true. BMWFS use the word may when referring to whether  it will apply the charge 
meaning they are not certain  they are allowed to charge it.  
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr R use of the car for the duration  of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£14,633.70. While Mr R was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain  
conditions, such as maintaining and taking  care of the car and only driving  a maximum 
mileage each year and overall  throughout the lifetime of the agreement.  The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr R not meet those requirements.
Mr R exercised his right to voluntarily  terminate the agreement. In some  instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependant on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr R accepts  that he was required to pay at least £19,345.80 to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.  But he disputes  the excess mileage charge of £3,615.21 that has 
been added  on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination:  Your rights section 
of Mr Rs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in 
his case, that was £19,345.80.  Various sections of the agreement Mr R had with BMWFS 
Ref: DRN13017053also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Mr R is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Rs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Mr Rs agreement is worded clearly in setting  out when excess  mileage charges accrue. 
Mr R has referred  to the section of the agreement headed Termination: your rights. This 
section contains  specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement,  
and in summary sets out that so long as Mr R has paid at least half the total amount payable 
under the agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Mr R argues that the wording of this 
clause is ambiguous because it says BMWFS cant charge  for excess  mileage, but it doesnt 
appear to be true. He says that it contradicts the other terms in the agreement regarding  
excess mileage and it is therefore unfair for BMWFS to apply the charge. 
Ive therefore  thought  about whether this term conflicts with the rest of the terms of the 
agreement, specifically those terms that explain charges for exceeding the mileage might 
apply. In other words,  what I have  to decide  is, has the agreement been constructed in a 
way as to allow the charging  for excess mileage  without contravening what  is set out in the 
CCA regarding voluntary  termination and are those terms clear? In Mr Rs specific case, 
I think it has. Ill explain why. 
Mr R says the other terms of the agreement should be effectively treated as void as the 
Termination: Your rights  section overrides them. I disagree. While certain agreements  can 
include terms, which set out consumers statutory rights  such  as those in S99  and it 
might be considered unfair for a business to contract out those rights,  I dont think  that is 
whats happened here. 
The Termination: Your rights section  contains  wording that BMWFS were required to 
include. BMWFS were  not entitled to amend that wording.  However, that doesnt mean they 
couldnt include additional  wording or terms within the agreement  that supplemented this 
section. And importantly, they could include wording entitling them to charge additional 
charges which  might  be allowed under S99 of the CCA. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, rather than focussing  narrowly  on 
one term in isolation, I dont think the agreement is either unclear or misleading concerning 
the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains that the excess mileage charge can be 
applied in addition  to other  charges for voluntary termination. I dont therefore consider that 
the way this specific agreement has been constructed has prejudiced Mr R.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr R is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.
Ref: DRN13017054Lastly, Mr R says that when referring to the excess mileage  clause  BMWFS have continually 
said they may charge it. He considers this to mean  that BMWFS arent  sure whether they 
legally can. While BMWFS might  have used that word  in some correspondence  with Mr R, 
I dont agree that has any significance to the outcome here. This is because  as Ive set out 
above, I think the credit agreement Mr R signed was clear  about when an excess mileage 
charge could be applied in addition  to other  charges for voluntary termination, and that the 
charge accrued prior to termination. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1301705