K820x#14complaint
Miss O has made a complaint because shes unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG 
declined a claim she made on her travel  insurance  policy. 
background
Miss O was on holiday with friends on an island when  she fell from a first floor balcony. She 
was taken to a public hospital and later discharged. When she went to see the resort doctor 
to get a fit to fly certificate he sent her to a private  hospital for further tests as he wasnt 
satisfied the public hospital had done enough  checks. The further tests revealed Miss O had 
fractured her spine. Miss Os parents flew out to join her. Whilst they were  travelling  URV  
arranged for Miss O to be moved to the public hospital. 
URV declined cover  on the basis that Miss O had been described  by her friend as drunk and 
because her friend said shed been sitting on the balcony ledge before  she fell. URV  said,  in 
summary, that this amounted to reckless behaviour and referred to the alcohol limit specified 
in the policy. 
Miss O was airlifted by military  aircraft  to the mainland and received surgery before  returning 
home. The costs were covered by the European Health Insurance  Card  (EHIC).  But 
Miss Os parents had to cover the cost of additional  accommodation  and flights  home. Miss 
Os mother made a complaint on her behalf. She is very dissatisfied with the service Miss O 
received and URVs decision to decline the claim.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think it was unreasonable for 
URV to decline the claim as they acted on the basis of the information provided  by Miss Os 
friend. She said the policy didnt cover private treatment, unless URV authorised it. The 
investigator explained that the insurer is entitled  to validate the claim and they were  trying to 
ensure that Miss O didnt incur unnecessary costs, particularly as at that point it was unclear  
whether the claim  would be accepted.  
Miss Os mother didnt  agree. She said Miss Os friend didnt see the fall happen  and this 
idea had been put into the girls head  by the hotelier. She also said Miss O didnt remember  
much about  the day of the accident and the claim has been  declined on the basis of 
speculation. She feels there ought to be 100% proof that Miss O was sitting on the balcony  
ledge in order  to decline the claim on that basis. So she asked an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
terms and conditions of the policy
The terms and conditions  of the policy exclude cover for claims arising due to:
Your suicide, self-injury, reckless behaviour or any wilful act of self-exposure  to 
danger or infection/injury (except  where  it is to save human life)
Ref: DRN18414042You, your travelling companion, close relative  or business associate being  under the 
influence of alcohol (A blood alcohol level that exceed 0.19% - approximately four 
pints or four 175ml glasses of wine).
The policy summary  also reminds  policyholders to be cautious saying:
This policy is designed to cover most  eventualities whilst you are on your trip. It does 
not provide cover in all circumstances  and we expect that you take all possible care 
to safeguard against accident, injury, loss or damage as if you had no insurance 
cover.
In relation to the provision of medical  treatment the policy says:
Your policy does not cover any costs private  medical treatment unless authorised by 
us. 
the claim
Its clear from the information  provided  by Miss Os mother that this whole experience was 
very traumatic, both for Miss O and her family. Mrs O described it as being  a stressful  living  
nightmare and I dont doubt  that was the case. I can entirely appreciate that it was a 
frightening time, particularly given the nature of Miss Os injuries.  However, whilst I have a 
great deal of empathy for Miss O and her family,  Im not upholding this complaint for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say URV  has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think URV have 
treated Miss O unfairly by declining the claim.  I say that because:
I dont think it was unreasonable  for URV to rely on the testimony of Miss Os friend 
when rejecting the claim. The friend explained theyd been at a pool party  and 
confirmed Miss O was drunk.  Thats not a criticism of Miss O  shes  a young  woman  
who was enjoying herself on holiday with friends  as shes  perfectly  entitled  to. 
However, her travel  insurance policy has a limitation  which  says it wont cover 
policyholders who are under the influence  of alcohol above a specified limit. And, 
given the testimony of Miss Os friend, I dont think it was unreasonable  for URV to 
conclude that the exclusions Ive referred to above applied  given the circumstances 
of this case; 
Miss O has no recollection of the accident.  When Miss Os friend  spoke to URV she 
said that Miss O had been sitting on the balcony. They asked her to describe the 
balcony and also obtained pictures from Miss Os family. Our service  is an informal 
alternative to the courts and my role is to decide  whats most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities. So I dont  need to be 100% sure about 
whether Miss O was sitting on the balcony.  Weighing up the evidence thats 
available, including  the pictures,  I dont  think its unreasonable for URV  to conclude 
Miss O was acting recklessly before she fell. Theres no other firm evidence to 
contradict what Miss Os friend said. And, taking  into account the design and 
construction of the balcony, I dont  think theres an alternative plausible  explanation 
for how Miss O came to fall;
Ref: DRN18414043Miss Os policy didnt  cover private  treatment.  So I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
URV to transfer her to a public  hospital.  The information in the medical reports  
suggests that she was stable and I can see that URV helped make the arrangements 
to move her. I can entirely understand why Miss Os parents wouldve preferred to be 
there for the move  but I dont  think it was essential  for URV to await their arrival; 
On the 16 July URV were informed that Miss O had been returned to hospital. The 
notes say that the case was discussed on the 18 July and more information  was 
needed. URV contacted Mr O for further information  the same day. On the 20 July 
the underwriter declined cover and this decision was communicated  to Mrs O within 
less than an hour. So, given that Miss O was stable  and receiving  treatment, I dont 
think that this was an unreasonable timescale  in the circumstances of this case; 
I can see that Mrs O asked to speak to a supervisor on the 17 July but I cant  see she 
received a call back  in response  to this request. However, I note that Mr O called 
shortly afterwards and theres no record in the notes of him wanting  to follow up the 
request to speak  to a supervisor. In any event  Mr and Mrs O arent policyholders  so 
Im not able to make  an award  for any distress they experienced as a result of the 
failure of URV to call Mrs O as shes not their customer; 
Mrs O asked to speak  to a manager twice on the 20 July and I can see the relevant 
manager called her back on the 20 July and left a voicemail for Mrs O. So this point 
doesnt change  my thoughts about  the outcome of this complaint; 
I can see that the treating doctors did ask about  an air ambulance to repatriate 
Miss O. But URV  spoke to the treating doctor  and it was agreed Miss O would  
undergo surgery  locally.  They  also discussed this with Miss Os parents. I note at this 
point in time URV hadnt received confirmation  from the underwriters about whether 
theyd accept the claim or not. Miss O was stable  and treatment was available  on the 
mainland. There were also concerns about whether the claim would be covered due 
to the circumstances of the accident.  So I dont think that was an unreasonable  
course of action given  the specific circumstances on this case.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Miss O to accept or reject  my decision before 17 June  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1841404