K821x#15complaint
Mr R and Mr M have  complained about  the way AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA) has dealt 
with a claim made under their companys commercial property insurance policy.
background 
Mr R and Mr M are directors of a property development  company, which Ill refer to as 
D Ltd. In February 2018 it was discovered  that a tenant had been using a property owned 
by D Ltd as a cannabis  farm. Mr R and Mr M made  a claim under the companys commercial 
property insurance  policy  with AXA, for malicious  damage.
AXA declined the claim in April 2018,  saying Mr R and Mr M hadnt  taken  reasonable steps 
to prevent or protect against loss or damage, because they hadnt carried out adequate 
checks on their tenant. Mr R and Mr M complained to AXA,  saying their tenant  was long-
standing and well known  to them,  so they felt the checks they did were  reasonable. They  
also argued that more  stringent checks werent a requirement under the policy.
AXA upheld the complaint  and offered D Ltd £50 in recognition of the inconvenience  it had 
caused by initially  declining  the claim. It also said it would progress the claim in the usual 
manner going  forward.
By this point, Mr R and Mr M had already instructed their own contractors to undertake  
remedial work to the property  which had commenced in March 2018, but had to be put on 
hold due to a lack of funds. Mr R and Mr M said theyd been  paying for the work themselves, 
having borrowed money at a high interest  rate.
AXA dealt with the claim as it had agreed to, and calculated  the amount due under the claim 
to be £18,500  for the building work  based on the invoices and breakdown  supplied  by Mr R 
and Mr M  and £9,813.70 for what AXA believed to be a fair reflection of the loss of rent 
over a reasonable period.  
Mr R and Mr M werent happy with AXAs offer, but AXA agreed to make  an interim payment 
to Mr R and Mr M while the complaint was being  investigated by this service. Our 
investigator considered  what  both parties had said and concluded that AXA should  pay, in 
addition to what it had already paid,  £1,500  for boiler  repair  work and £1,100 for replacement  
carpets (plus  8% simple  interest). Our investigator thought  the offer AXA had made for loss 
of rent was reasonable.
AXA accepted our investigators  findings, but Mr R and Mr M disagreed.  They said theyd 
lost out on rent for well over a year while the property was uninhabitable  so the figure of 
£9,813.70 wasnt  sufficient and theyd actually  lost significantly  more in rent because of the 
damage and AXAs  initial refusal to deal with the claim.
Because Mr R and Mr M didnt agree with our investigators findings,  the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator   and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN11257822AXA initially  declined the claim on the basis that D Ltd hadnt  taken reasonable steps  to 
prevent or protect against loss or damage.  It said this was based  on an admission that rent 
was collected  in cash, that financial checks werent carried  out on the tenants,  and full 
references werent obtained. 
AXA said the tenant had taken up occupancy  of the property in August 2017 following a 
verbal recommendation and that one months rent was collected in cash at the start of the 
tenancy  with subsequent payments also being made in cash. Ive looked at the policy  
terms and while it does  stipulate that a policyholder  must  take reasonable steps to prevent or 
protect against loss or damage, I havent seen a requirement for more stringent checks to be 
carried out on prospective tenants. So I think its fair that AXA agreed to deal with the claim 
and paid compensation for the inconvenience it caused when it unfairly declined the claim.
The issue  I therefore need to determine is whether  the offer AXA has made  to settle  the 
claim is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. 
Payment for building work
AXA said it calculated the amount due for building work based on the invoices and 
breakdown Mr R and Mr M had provided.  Ive considered all the evidence as well as the 
additional submissions  Mr R and Mr M have made since our investigator shared his opinion. 
I wont detail the works  AXA has agreed  to pay for and in respect of which it has already 
made an interim payment, but will focus  only on those  works which  remain  in dispute.
The work AXA has refused to cover is:
-The repair of the surrounding areas
-Replacement of damaged locks
-Replacement of bedroom, hallway and stair carpets
-Full payment  of £3,500  for the replacement of the old boiler / radiators
-Replacement of the kitchen white goods
-Replacement of the front wall
-Replacement of the kitchen window
-Additional skip hire
I think its fair for AXA to cover all works  that can reasonably be said to have resulted from 
the insured event  the malicious damage caused by cultivation  of a cannabis  farm. There  
are items listed which I dont think can reasonably be linked  to the insured event, and those 
are the repair  of surrounding areas, replacement of the white  goods,  replacement of the front 
wall, replacement of the kitchen window and the additional skip hire.
I do however think AXA should pay for the carpets in the bedroom, hallway and stairs to be 
replaced. I say this because I dont  think AXA has done enough to show that the damage to 
the carpets cant be linked  to the insured event. I also find what Mr R and Mr M have said 
about the damage to the carpets being  a direct result of water damage from the cannabis 
growth to be plausible. 
AXA should  also pay for the full cost of replacing the old boiler and radiators as it hasnt 
been able to show that these cant be linked to the insured event either.  Theres  also little 
evidence showing how the locks came to be damaged. So I think  AXA should  pay for those 
as well. 
Ref: DRN11257823I appreciate the lack of evidence here is mainly due to AXA initially  declining  the claim and in 
doing so, losing out on the opportunity to inspect the damage and determining  the likely  
causes of it. However, I think its fair for AXA to meet the cost of these works and Im 
pleased to see AXA has agreed to do so following our investigators opinion.
In response to our investigators assessment, Mr R and Mr M have  reiterated  that their white  
goods were stolen so should be included. But this wouldnt fall under the claim for malicious 
damage and would need to be registered  as a separate theft claim.  And even if it was 
something which could  be considered  under this claim, the evidence  Ive seen from the loss 
adjusters notes seems  to show some confusion over whether or not the white goods  had 
been stolen. She recalls  Mr M explaining a mistake  had been made regarding the theft of 
those items  as theyd  been moved  to the conservatory so werent in the kitchen when he 
gained entry. And I see no reason  to doubt  what the loss adjuster has noted from that time. I 
therefore dont  think theres enough evidence that these items were  stolen and so I wont  be 
requiring AXA to pay for the replacement white goods.
Payment for loss of rent
AXAs initial  offer for loss of rent covered a period of 28 weeks and 3 days. This is the period 
AXA believes the property  to have been  uninhabitable based  on its inspections.  Mr R and 
Mr M have  said they couldnt rent it out for over a year. 
Ive looked carefully  at all the evidence. Firstly, the loss adjusters notes confirm that despite 
the property being uninhabitable,  someone was living there.  Shes noted that there was a 
bed in the front room and that Mr M commented to her that it was a family  friend  staying at 
the property and paying reduced rent. Despite Mr R and Mr M denying  that anyone was 
staying at the property during that time,  and despite there being contradictory evidence  from 
their contractor who said no one couldve been living at the property  while works were  going 
on, Ive found  the loss adjusters notes to be more  persuasive and so Im satisfied I can rely 
on these. I say this because shes not received a response to her query about the friend 
living at the property, and our investigator also never received an alternative explanation 
from Mr R and Mr M as to why the loss adjuster wouldve noted  these  things down if they 
werent true.
Secondly, theres conflicting information  about when the works to the property were 
completed. So Ive made my decision based on what I think  most likely here. Mr R and Mr M 
say that works commenced in March 2018,  but had to be put on hold due to lack of funds. 
Theyve also said the work completed in May 2019.  We have testimony  from Mr R and 
Mr Ms contractor  that the work completed before  June 2019. A further  email  from the builder 
confirms that snagging  work also completed at the beginning of May 2019.  So I can 
understand why Mr R and Mr M dont  think AXAs offer to pay loss of rent until August  2018 
is fair.
However, the loss adjuster noted that building work had commenced  in March 2018  and 
invoices for the building work are dated from May 2018 to November 2018. The invoice  
dated July 2018 includes a late payment charge. I think  its unlikely the invoice would include 
a late payment charge if work wasnt near completion. And the dates of the invoices support 
what AXA and the builders originally said, which was that works took around  six months  to 
complete and were  completed by around June 2018.
Ref: DRN11257824As there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that work went on until the middle 
of 2019, I think AXAs  offer to cover loss of rent until August 2018 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and I wont be requiring AXA to increase its offer for loss of rent.
putting things right
In addition to what its already  paid under this claim,  AXA Insurance UK Plc must also pay 
£1,500 for boiler repairs, £1,100 for replacement carpets, £320 for replacement  locks and 
8% simple  interest on these amounts, from the date these payments were  made  to the date 
of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay the 
redress set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2021.
Ifrah Malik
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1125782