K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refused to raise a chargeback on a disputed 
transaction.
background
Mr K says he contacted  Lloyds several times in July 2018 about a payment taken from his 
account by a holiday company. He says he didnt agree  with the amount  being taken 
(£128.65) which he felt included fees and charges he hadnt  been told about.  Hed contacted 
the company but it hadnt replied so he asked Lloyds to raise a chargeback. But he says it 
refused.
Lloyds said it wasnt clear  why Mr K was querying the payment so it needed more 
information to make sure it fell within the chargeback rules. Mr K hadnt provided this so it 
hadnt been able to do anything more about  the chargeback. But it agreed hed had difficulty 
in getting through when hed called in on 23 July and it had offered him £40 for this.
Our adjudicator felt Lloyds had dealt with the complaint fairly. She said when Mr K first called 
Lloyds the payment hadnt been taken so it wasnt possible to raise  a chargeback at this 
time. But Lloydshad explained  this and suggested  he contact the company  in the meantime 
to see if the payment could be stopped. She thought this was reasonable.
Shed listened to the call of 3 July and could see Lloyds had said it could log it as 
misrepresentation but would  need  more information from Mr K to show  this was the case. 
As it wasnt entirely clear  why he was disputing the payment she thought  it was reasonable 
for Lloyds  to ask for this. But Mr K hadnt contacted the disputes  team  at Lloyds after this so 
nothing further  had been done. However  in the circumstances she couldnt agree Lloyds had 
unfairly refused  to allow him to raise a dispute.
Mr K disagreed and asked for his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.  He said he 
was entitled to raise  a chargeback if he hadnt authorised the payment and this  had been 
confirmed by the credit card provider. He said hed made clear  he was querying  the amount 
of the final payment to the holiday company which he felt was £4.95 too much.  Hed raised  it  
with the holiday  company  whod said it was a transaction fee but he couldnt see this had 
been explained or included in the terms and conditions so he didnt agree it was correct.  
He said hed explained this to Lloyds  and provided  it with the necessary  information, but 
Lloyds hadnt  raised the dispute. He felt this was wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking Lloyds 
to do anything more  as Ill now explain.
Chargeback is a process which  allows  customers  to challenge a transaction if theres a 
problem with the good or services theyve  received.  Having said that its a voluntary scheme 
which means theres no automatic right to a chargeback and a customer cannot insist  the 
business processes  their request even  if they think its right to do so. And a  business  may 
decline to apply a chargeback if it believes the chargeback is unlikely to be successful. 
Thats a decision for the business but we expect  it to act fairly when making that decision.
Ref: DRN14597242And although Lloyds doesnt  make the rules that say how the scheme operates,  it has to 
comply with them. In other  words  a chargeback can only be processed where it meets the 
chargeback rules and its not part of those rules  to get involved in a contractual dispute 
between the customer  and the service  provider as to the terms of the contract.
In this case Ive listened  to the call of 3 July and Im satisfied  Lloyds didnt refuse  to raise a 
chargeback but explained  that it needed  more information to make sure it understood why 
Mr K was asking for this. It offered to log it as misrepresentation  provided Mr K could  
provide it with the additional documents it required.  It also explained it couldnt get involved 
with what might be a contract dispute. As Mr K had made previous payments to this 
company without concern, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds  to  want to make sure 
the chargeback  did sit within the rules before it could decide  whether it could go ahead. As 
far as I can see Mr K didnt  go back to Lloyds with the documents it had asked for, so I cant  
reasonably criticise it for not doing anything  more.
And Lloyds  is entitled to refuse a chargeback if it considers its not likely to be successful. In 
this case the terms and conditions that Mr K signed  up to when  he arranged his holiday 
state "Please note we make a small charge for each payment made  via the deposit scheme 
(£4.95 per payment), irrespective of the payment card type". Its clear  this charge is for 
paying by instalments and not for paying by credit card which  was Mr Ks concern when he 
called in. On that basis  I agree with the adjudicator that its unlikely that a chargeback on this 
ground would have been successful.
But its clear that  when Mr K called  in on 23 July the phone systems didnt work as they 
should. Lloyds  has acknowledged this and offered  him £40 compensation. On the basis this 
related to one call on one day, I think that £40 is fair and in line what Id award  for a 
complaint of this type.
I can see Mr K feels very strongly that Lloyds refused to process the chargeback  but I cant  
agree. Im satisfied Lloyds  wanted more information  but that the information it asked for 
wasnt provided. For that reason I dont think its acted unfairly in the way it dealt with the 
chargeback and I wont be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1459724