K820x#14complaint
Mr R is represented. He says an adviser  from a firm taken over by Capital Professional 
Limited (CPL) gave him unsuitable advice in 2003 to invest  in the Grosvenor Park First 
Choice Film Partnership scheme (the scheme). CPL is the respondent for the complaint,  
and it disputes  the complaint.
background
Mr R says: 
He invested  around  £210,000 (personal capital of around  £70,000  and the rest in 
loan capital) into the scheme for the prospect of a tax relief of around  £205,000 (as 
calculated by the adviser); the relief  (for the 2003/04  tax year) turned out to be 
around £79,000; then in 2017  he learnt that HMRC  was challenging the scheme, that 
the tax relief was likely to be recovered, that penalties were  also likely and that 
HMRC was offering,  as an alternative, a settlement opportunity; and that he settled 
with HMRC in 2018 by payment  of around £81,000.
He was not advised about the risk that tax benefits associated with the scheme could 
be challenged by HMRC  in the future and not advised about  the risk of the schemes 
failure. Overall, the advisers recommendation was unbalanced, it over-emphasised 
the potentials  of the scheme (including performance  and tax status  assurances)  but 
downplayed and/or ignored  its risks.
The recommendation mismatched his objective for a stable and low risk (or no risk) 
investment in a proven product. He did not have a high-risk  profile and the scheme  
had inherent high risks.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and was not persuaded that it should be 
upheld. He shared  his view with both parties  and then responded to comments  from Mr Rs 
representative. Overall and in the main, he said:
Given the passage  of time and given that firms  are not obliged  to retain documents  
indefinitely there is limited information/documentation about events at the time of the 
recommendation.
Available evidence  defeats Mr Rs claim that he wanted a low or no risk investment; 
evidence from his representative about his risk profile in 2015 is too remote  from 
what his risk profile was in 2003,  so is unreliable; he was a high earner  who sought 
an investment with tax relief benefits and had been discussing (with the adviser) 
options in this respect around the time of the recommendation; there is evidence of 
his consideration  of an Enterprise  Zone Property  Syndicate (EZPS) investment in 
2002 for tax benefits; the suitability  letter for that gave him notice that it was a high 
risk venture; so any alternative to the 2003  scheme investment (with the same 
objective) would have had risks comparable to the schemes. 
Available evidence  also supports  the finding  that achieving tax benefits was Mr Rs 
objective for the scheme investment; the 2003 suitability letter  he received stated this 
and he would have  challenged the letter if that was not his objective.
The adviser made it clear in the 2003  suitability letter (for the scheme investment)  
that there was a risk the scheme  could fail, that Inland Revenue had not granted 
formal approval of the scheme and that it had not forgone its right to raise a formal  
inquiry into the scheme in the future.
It would  not be fair to conclude that the adviser  ought to have known the scheme 
would fail to meet  its aims; the scheme had a favourable review from a tax expert  at 
Ref: DRN16457622the time  which was the basis for the advisers speculation that it would succeed;  
the adviser also referred to investors  in the scheme  having already received tax 
rebates; so, for these reasons, the adviser considered it a less risky scheme than 
others/alternatives.
Mr R and his representative  disagreed  with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In the main,  they retained  their original position and, in addition,  said:
The investigators findings are mainly  based on conjecture and assumptions.  
Mr R had a conservative risk profile.  His focus  was not solely on tax benefits. His 
objectives  were for steady growth, with a balanced attitude to risk. He was not 
looking for a high-risk  investment  in 2003 and there is evidence  that the adviser was 
aware of this because  the suitability letter refers to discounting other  investments that 
the adviser considered too high risk, untested and unsuitable for Mr R.
Evidence of his risk profile in 2015 is relevant; it shows  an assessment, by a different 
firm, of six out of 10 (10 being high risk); using this scale,  Mr R would have had a 
profile between  6 and 7 in 2003;  and the firm that assessed  the 2015  profile  says it 
would consider a film partnership scheme  investment  to be between  9 and 10 on this 
scale. In this respect, it must be noted that there  is no evidence of the adviser 
conducting a risk profile assessment for Mr R in 2003; it is probable that no such  
assessment was conducted at the time.
The adviser did not make the risks in the scheme clear.  Even  if Mr R had a high-risk  
profile  which  he did not  the adviser nevertheless failed to draw his attention  to 
risks inherent in the scheme (such  as its reliance upon leverage borrowings to 
produce a windfall tax rebate).
The adviser failed  to establish a proper understanding  of Mr Rs investor  profile 
(including his objectives, his expertise and his capacity  for loss).
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator and I share the same  overall  reasons he gave.
Objective(s)
The suitability letter sent to Mr R in 2003,  which recommended the scheme, stated at the 
start that the advisers  recommendation  was intended  to give  part mitigation of [Mr Rs] 
higher rate tax from the tax years ending 5th April 2001 and 2002. 
The letter summarised  how returns from the scheme  were  to be considered over the life of 
the partnership,  but its focus was the prospect  of tax benefits. This was illustrated throughout 
the last two pages of the four paged letter and especially by the following statement  on page 
three   although  the Partnership  runs for seven years, your interest effectively  ends after 
you receive your tax rebate. [my emphasis]
It is Mr Rs position that he invested  for the prospect of a tax relief  of around £205,000  but 
instead achieved  tax relief of around £79,000,  then had to repay around £81,000 to HMRC. 
The same is reflected in the contents  of his complaint letter to the advising firm in 2018. 
Ref: DRN16457623Overall, I am satisfied with evidence  that Mr Rs objective, or main objective,  in the scheme  
investment in 2003 was not the steady growth his representative asserts, it was to achieve 
tax relief benefits.
Risks
I address Mr Rs risk profile in 2003 and his awareness of the risks in the scheme.
On balance, I am not persuaded  by Mr Rs representatives argument  that the absence  of 
evidence showing the advisers risk profile  assessment for him means no such  assessment 
was conducted.  The advice happened 15 years  before his complaint in 2018. It is neither 
implausible nor unreasonable that record of it would be limited due to the passage  of so 
many years. Firms are not obliged to maintain  complete  records  of past business for 15 
years. 
I note the 2015  evidence  that has been presented. Like the investigator, I too consider it 
unreliable. There  are 12 years between  this evidence and the events of 2003.  An investors 
risk profile and circumstances could  remain the same over 12 years but, equally, they could 
change substantially or even completely. I have not seen evidence  to safely  conclude, on 
balance, that a different firms assessment  of Mr Rs risk profile in 2015 serves  as an 
accurate indication of what  his risk profile  was or would have been in 2003.
More helpful evidence exists in some  of the documentation  that CPL has been able to find 
and share  with us. As the investigator said, there is a 2002 suitability letter to Mr R about the 
EZPS recommendation.  That recommendation was expressly made in the context of 
achieving a tax relief objective  which adds further  support  to my conclusion in the sub-
section above   and in the context of the high risks in an EZPS investment.  Then  there is a 
2005 recommendation letter to Mr R  which I consider close  enough, in relevance,  to his 
profile two years earlier in 2003   which features the prospect of investing in a Venture 
Capital Trust (VCT) and features the same contexts of tax relief and high risks.
Importantly, there is evidence from 2003  before the adviser recommended the scheme to 
Mr R  which shows that another EZPS investment opportunity was recommended to him in 
July and that, within the same month,  his application  for the investment was submitted. This 
opportunity shared the same  tax relief objective  and high risks warnings as that of 2002.
Overall and on the balance of the aforementioned  evidence, I conclude that Mr Rs investor 
profile in 2003,  and for the scheme investment, included the tax benefits  related objective 
(as I determined in the previous sub-section) and a decision to adopt a high risk approach; 
and that he appears  to have been considering  and to have been in discussion with the 
adviser about  investments to match this profile  between 2002 and 2005. Even if his 
general attitude to risk at the time was different, evidence shows  he adopted a high-risk 
approach for the specific tax relief  objective. It is not uncommon for investors to take such  a 
step for a specific purpose.
In terms of Mr R being given adequate notice about the risks inherent  in the scheme,  I am 
satisfied that he had such notice  with regards to both investment and tax treatment  risks. 
The 2003  suitability letters penultimate paragraph  referred Mr R to the schemes prospectus 
and recommended that he read and understood the risk factors stated within it. Before that, 
the letter reflected  that there  was no guarantee the films produced within  the scheme would 
generate income,  but it said prospective tax relief should provide an alternative  form of 
Ref: DRN16457624return for investors. With regards to the prospect of tax relief  the letter also gave notice that 
there was no guarantee in this respect  that is, even though the positive tax expert  review  
was a favourable  aspect  of the proposal,  there was no guarantee that Inland Revenue  would  
not contest the scheme.
I understand Mr Rs representatives  point about  the balance of the presentation within  the 
advisers recommendation.  I do not consider that it was unbalanced in the manner  or to the 
extent that has been  argued, but I accept that the letter  presents  a distinctly  positive outlook  
for the recommendation  whilst also including the notices mentioned above. 
However, I have not viewed the letter in isolation. As stated above, by the time of the 
recommendation Mr R and the adviser appear to have been  engaged in an ongoing 
discussion, since 2002, about  alternative  investments to achieve a tax relief objective.  The 
suitability letters sent to Mr R about  the two EZPS opportunities mentioned  above   and 
before his investment in the scheme   included information about  the high risks in such 
alternative investments,  about the risks of changing  tax laws/rules  and about the advisers 
disclaimer of liability for any future  loss arising from such future changes.
The implication, overall, is that Mr R was sufficiently informed  about the risks inherent  in, and 
that could be expected  from, the scheme. I do not accept his representatives  argument  that 
the adviser discounted investments considered too risky, untested and unsuitable for Mr R 
and that this shows awareness  he was risk averse. 
The relevant  part of the 2003 suitability letter, which I have  quoted below, appears to have  
been taken out of context in this argument. The adviser discounted other film partnership 
schemes, VCTs and Enterprise related schemes   not other  investments in general  for 
stated reasons. There is nothing in the quote that says Mr R was known to be risk averse. 
Reference to high risk and higher  level of risk in the quote  is made  in the context of a 
comparison amongst  products within these schemes. Collectively, these schemes were still 
higher risk investments.
I have considered  alternative tax mitigation/tax deferral schemes such as Sale and 
Leaseback Film Partnerships, Production Film Partnerships and Hybrid Sale and Leaseback 
Film Partnerships, Enterprise Zone  Trusts, Venture Capital Trusts and Enterprise Investment 
Schemes. I have discounted these schemes for several reasons. Other Film Partnerships 
were too long for your requirements  and some are untested, and consequently high risk 
Although Sale and Leaseback Partnerships offer a proven route, they typically have a term 
of 15 years.  Although Enterprise Zone  Trusts offer an interesting alternative,  there  is a lack 
of product in the market at present. I deemed  Venture Capital Trusts and Enterprise 
Investment Schemes unsuitable  as they involve a higher level of risk.
Capacity for loss
Fact-finding or know-your-client  related  evidence  is limited,  so the full details of Mr Rs 
financial position in 2003 are not clear. However, the 2003 suitability letter refers to his 
significantly high levels of annual  salary in 2001 and 2002. In addition, we have  been  given 
copies of unrelated,  but nevertheless insightful,  documents about a trust arrangement  he 
was party  to around the relevant time and this too suggests an overall wealthy profile.
I accept that the lack of documentation  is unhelpful, but the complaint must be determined  
as it is. Mr Rs representative makes  a valid point about the need to consider  Mr Rs capacity 
for loss in 2003.  Based on the limited available evidence, I have not seen ground to 
Ref: DRN16457625conclude that he lacked the capacity  to invest the personal capital portion into the scheme or 
to engage in an investment like the scheme.
Suitability
On balance, mindful of the limited but nevertheless  sufficient evidence  and for the above  
reasons, my conclusion is that recommendation of the scheme to Mr R was not unsuitable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1645762