K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr S took out a credit card with BoS in 1997. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which  
wouldve helped cover the repayments on his card for up to 12 months  at a time if he wasnt  
able to work. It also provided life and critical illness cover for the balance.
Mr S says that the PPI was added without  his consent. He also says that as he was self-
employed at the time it wasnt suitable  for him.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld.  Mr S disagrees,  so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr S says he didnt agree  to the PPI being  added to his account. BoS say Mr S chose to buy 
it when he filled out his credit card application  form. BoS has provided a copy  of this and I 
can see that Mr S was given a choice about  taking  the policy and he ticked a box to agree to 
it. So, on balance, I think Mr S chose to buy the PPI knowing he didnt have to, although I 
understand why he doesnt remember doing so over 20 years later. 
BoS didnt personally advise  Mr S to buy the PPI, so it didnt have to check  it was right for 
him. But it did need to make sure Mr S had enough information to make his own mind up 
about buying it. 
Its possible Mr S didnt  receive all that information.  But looking at his circumstances at the 
time I dont  think it wouldve made  a difference to his decision to buy it. 
Given the length of time since the sale neither party has been able to supply a copy  of the 
policy, so Ive looked at the terms and conditions of similar policies sold by other parts  of 
BoS around the same time, as well as the terms from the earliest  available  policy  document 
for this particular card. I think its likely the conditions were the same,  or very similar, to the 
one sold to Mr S and I have used  these terms as the basis  for my assessment.
Mr S chose to buy the policy, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Mr S wasnt 
negatively affected  by any of the terms which mightve made it more difficult  for him to make  
a successful claim  such as those related to existing medical  conditions.  Mr S was self-
employed and with some policies this could make it more difficult  for the consumer to make  
a successful claim. But in this case  I dont think that it did. For example, he wasnt  required 
to liquidate his business before he was entitled  to make a claim.
Ref: DRN11454322Mr S didnt have any sick pay or savings,  so if hed been too ill to work  I think  hed have 
found the policy useful in covering his credit card repayments. Mr S says that he wouldve 
employed staff to cover his role, so the business  would still have continued to operate.  But 
this would have  cost him extra to do so and I think the policy  couldve helped  him when he 
was having to cover these  extra  costs.  
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around the 
same time. It was flexible  as it could be cancelled at any time without financial penalty. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr S. 
So although  I think its possible Mr S didnt get all the information he shouldve done  in 
relation to the policy, I dont think he lost out as a result. This means BoS doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
When the policy was sold,  BoS expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S 
about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BoS should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest  he paid because of 
that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr S the difference between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest if Mr S 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But it does  have to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1145432