K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2003. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for this sale. 
So, in my decision, Ill just refer to FICL  as the PPI seller. Ms H says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
 Ive seen a copy  of the store  card application form Ms H signed. I can see FICL made her 
aware that she had a choice about  adding PPI and that she chose to take it by signing in the 
relevant place. I can understand if she doesnt remember  that now,  after all this time.
 I dont consider that FICL personally recommended the PPI to Ms H. So it didnt  have to 
check if the PPI was right for her. But FICL  should have given her the information she needed  
to decide for herself if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And I 
can see why as, despite her enhanced sick/redundancy pay entitlement  and savings, the PPI 
benefits were considerable. I also think its likely Ms H realised  there was a cost for the cover.
 Based  on what Ive seen of Ms Hs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover   so it would  have 
been useful to her if something went wrong.  
Ive carefully considered  that Ms H says she returned to her parents home around four months  
after taking the PPI. And that her circumstances  meant she didnt need  the policy. But I dont know 
if her move was a factor for her at the time of the sale, or how long she intended to stay with her 
parents. So, overall,  this doesnt change my mind. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Ms H has lost out because of how FICL  sold her the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN19279992my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject  
my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1927999