K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, didnt properly 
check whether its loans to him were affordable  and that it shouldnt have made the loans to 
him. 
background
Likely Loans made three loans to Mr M  the first for £1,000 in July 2016,  the second  for 
£2,500 in July 2017 and the third for £3,406.26 in February 2018. The first loan was repaid in 
full in July 2017, the outstanding  balance  of the second loan was repaid in January 2018 
using £1,406.26 from the third loan and the third loan remains  outstanding.  A reduced 
repayment arrangement  of £75 each month was accepted by Likely Loans.
Mr M complained to Likely Loans in January 2019 that it had lent to him irresponsibly and 
that it shouldnt  have made the loans to him because they were unaffordable.  It said that it 
had reviewed the information provided when Mr M applied for the loans and found  no 
evidence to suggest that that information was incorrect or that the correct  processes werent  
followed  so it said that it was unable to uphold his complaint that the loans  were  granted  
irresponsibly or comply with his request to refund any sums  to him. Mr M wasnt  satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that Mr M 
had made  all the required payments on the first two loans and Likely  Loans  had provided  
evidence of the credit checks  that it carried out when the loans were agreed.  He said that 
Mr M started  missing payments after the third loan was agreed  in January 2018 and he 
didnt think that Likely Loans decision to lend to Mr M was irresponsible.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that: Likely Loans didnt ask him if his income or expenses  had changed  (and they had);  it 
didnt ask him for bank statements so that it could check if the new repayments  were 
affordable; hed said that the first loan was to consolidate debt but it shouldve  seen that that 
hadnt happened; Likely Loans increased his interest rate even though he was in a more 
difficult position but it didnt check whether he could actually afford the new repayments;  and 
he had taken out numerous  payday  loans.
Likely Loans says that Mr M stopped making  the payments  to it after the adjudicators 
recommendation and it agreed to accept payments from him of £1 each month until a 
decision was made on his complaint. The account was sold to a third party  in September 
2019 and the third party has confirmed  that the outstanding balance on the account  is 
£3,411.45.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender should make proportionate checks about the affordability of a loan before lending  to 
a customer. Whats proportionate  will depend on the circumstances of the loan. Likely Loans 
says that it uses automated decision making as part of its loan assessment process. It says 
that it uses an internal  scorecard which  takes the data provided by the customer and 
combines it with information  from credit reference  agencies (including how many  active  
Ref: DRN18690442accounts the customer has, details on how the customer  manages  those accounts, the 
balances outstanding and whether payments are made on time or not). 
Mr M applied  online  to Likely Loans for the first loan in July 2016.  Likely  Loans evidence  of 
the application shows that Mr M had asked for the loan to pay for a car purchase  or repairs. 
But he says that he told it that the loan was to consolidate his debts. But hes provided  no 
other evidence to support that. And I consider it to be more likely than not that he did tell 
Likely Loans that he wanted  the loan for a car purchase or repairs.  He electronically signed a 
fixed sum loan agreement that month  for a loan of £1,000 repayable  by 12 monthly 
repayments of £115.96.  The interest  rate was 89.9% 
Mr M said that his income was £16,800 and that he was living with his parents. I consider 
that the information that Likely Loan  gathered was proportionate for that loan and that, on 
the basis of that information, it was reasonable for it to conclude  that the loan was affordable  
for him. 
Mr M made the required  payments under that loan and it was repaid in full in July 2017. 
Later that month, he applied for the second loan which he said was to consolidate his 
borrowings. Likely Loans says that the information that it had gathered  showed that he had 
debts of £2,200 but that his income  had gone  up to £20,000. He electronically signed a fixed 
sum loan agreement for a loan of £2,500 repayable by 12 monthly repayments of £266.21. 
The interest rate was 59.9% so considerably lower than the first loan.  
I consider that the information that Likely Loans  had gathered was proportionate for that loan 
and on the basis  of that information  and Mr Ms payment history on the first loan  it was 
reasonable for it to conclude that the loan was affordable for him. 
Mr M made the required  monthly  payment each month from July 2017 to January 2018  and 
he then applied for another loan. The outstanding balance of his loan was £1,406.26  and 
Likely Loans agreed to lend him a total of £3,406.26 (£1,406.26 of which was to repay  his 
outstanding loan and £2,000 of which was new lending). The loan was repayable by 18 
monthly repayments of £268.83 at an interest  rate of 59.9%. So the interest rate was the 
same as his previous loan and the monthly  payment increased  by less than £3. 
This was Mr Ms third loan in eighteen  months. But hed repaid the first loan in full and was 
making the required payments under the second  loan.  He told Likely Loans that his income 
was £16,200 and his address was the same so he was still living at home with parents. It 
says that it checked  the affordability  of the loan and had no reason to believe that the loan 
repayments of £268.83  werent affordable for him. 
Mr M says that it didnt ask him for information  about  his expenditure  which had changed  
and that he had taken out short  term loans. But those loans are likely to have been evident  
to Likely  Loans  from the information that it had gathered  and he didnt tell it that his 
expenditure had changed.  Mr M had applied for the additional lending  and I consider that it 
was reasonable  for Likely Loans  to conclude, on the basis of the information that it had 
gathered and Mr Ms payment history, that the loan was affordable for him.
So Im not persuaded that Likely Loans  has lent irresponsibly to Mr M or that any of the 
loans were unaffordable for him at the time that they were made. Likely  Loans  says that 
Mr M was maintaining his payments under the current loan until June 2018 when he 
contacted it because his working hours  had been reduced and he was struggling with his 
financial commitments. It set up a reduced payment plan under which he paid £75 each 
Ref: DRN18690443month but Mr M then said that he was only going  to pay it £1 each month until a decision 
was made  on his complaint. The account was sold to a third party  in September 2019 and 
the third party  has confirmed that the outstanding balance on the account  is £3,411.45.
A lender is required to respond to a borrowers  financial  difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. Likely Loans has accepted reduced  repayments  from Mr M and I consider 
that it has responded positively and sympathetically to his financial difficulties. So Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Likely Loans has acted  incorrectly in 
its dealings with Mr M. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
refund to Mr M any of the interest and charges that hes paid in relation to the loans  or to 
take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1869044