K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the charges he was asked to pay to refurbish a vehicle he was 
financing through  an agreement with Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as 
Skoda Financial Services (Skoda FS).
background
Mr T took receipt  of a new vehicle in November 2014. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  and decided to voluntarily  terminate the arrangement  in March 2018. 
He complains about the following repairs that Skoda FS have  asked him to pay for to return 
the vehicle to a satisfactory standard prior to sale:
1.scratched front bumper
2.scratched spoiler
3.cracked right hand front tyre requiring replacement
4.cracked right hand rear tyre requiring replacement
5.scratched wheel requiring refurbishment
He said he was told that if he voluntarily terminated  the deal he could do so without  further 
penalty and he didnt think it was fair for Skoda FS to ask him to pay for repairs. So he 
complained to the business and they reviewed the charges. They looked at the report  that 
had been generated  by a third party inspector  when  Mr T returned the car and they didnt 
think the scratch to the bumper had been well evidenced. So they agreed to remove that 
charge. But they thought the other  charges had been properly made  and were in line with 
the agreement  Mr T had formed with them to return the car in a good  condition for sale.
But Mr T disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service where our adjudicator 
provided her opinion. She understood that Mr T disputed there would be any charges but 
she noted that the finance agreement set out what condition the car would need to be 
returned in and explained that charges would apply if it wasnt.  She therefore reviewed the 
pictures of the damage using the industry  guidelines  on fair wear and tear provided by the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA). She agreed that the scratched 
bumper hadnt  been evidenced in the inspection report photographs  and that the charge 
should therefore be removed. But when she looked at the other charges she thought  there 
was evidence that the damage exceeded  the acceptable condition and that Skoda FS were 
therefore being reasonable.
Mr T agreed  with the adjudicators view about the scratched spoiler  and the wheel 
refurbishment but he still didnt think he should  be held liable for the other issues.  He 
explained that the MOT carried  out, only three  months and 875 miles earlier, had not noted 
any defects of the tyres and he said the side walls shouldnt crack  so soon and there  was 
therefore a defect with them. He therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T but I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN18976792Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ts finance  agreement set out what charges  would need to be paid when his agreement 
came to an end. These charges were  applicable whether he voluntarily  terminated  the deal 
or not. The agreement said:
you will be responsible for any damage to or deterioration  of the vehicle which is in excess 
of fair wear  and tear
Mr T has explained  that he agrees with the adjudicators comments regarding  the spoiler 
scratch and damaged wheel refurbishment. I wont therefore comment  any further on those 
issues other than to say I have reviewed the photographic  evidence  in the report and agree 
that the damage is outside of what would  be considered fair wear and tear.
That leaves me to consider the two cracked tyres. The BVRLA  provide the industry 
guidelines on fair wear  and tear for new vehicles. With regard to tyres they say that:
there must be no damage to sidewalls or tread
Ive reviewed the inspection report and I can see that both tyres  have  cracks  where  the walls 
meet the treads and I think  this damage is therefore beyond  normal wear and tear and is 
chargeable.
I understand that Mr T considers such damage unusual and has suggested that tyres 
shouldnt have damage of this type so soon.  If I considered this was due to a fault with the 
tyres that was there or developing when Mr T took receipt of the car, I may have asked 
Skoda FS to take some further action. But I dont think thats most likely to have been  the 
case. I think its fair to say that tyres are a wear and tear item and the extent to which  they 
wear is dependant  on a number of factors. Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence 
these tyres  have degraded too quickly or were  inherently defective and I therefore think the 
charges Skoda FS have levied are fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1897679