K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about the adverse information  that Virgin Media Mobile  Finance Limited has 
recorded on his credit file.
background
Mr T says that he had two credit  agreements with Virgin Media Mobile  Finance under  which  
he was paying  for two mobile phones. He says that one of the agreements has ended  but is 
still showing  as an open account on his credit  report and that an outstanding balance  of 
£209 is showing on his credit report for the other account but hes paid the outstanding 
balance to a credit reference  agency. 
He says that he complained to Virgin Media Mobile Finance but it didnt respond to his letters  
so he complained to this service. Virgin Media Mobile Finance then said that it would need 
evidence of the payments that Mr T states  he made and that the balance would remain on 
his account.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that Virgin  
Media Mobile Finance hadnt provided its business  file or any evidence  to show what the 
balance was for or what payments  had been made towards it. She contacted the credit  
reference agency to which Mr Ts debt had been transferred and it said that it was instructed  
by Virgin  Media Mobile Finance in December  2015 to recover a balance  of £16.20 from Mr T 
which he then paid to it between January and March 2016. 
So she recommended  that Virgin Media  Mobile  Finance  should:  contact the credit  reference 
agencies and update Mr Ts file to show that the accounts he held with it were settled from 
March 2016; update  its own records to show that his account  balance had been paid off; and 
ensure that Mr T is no longer pursued for any debt related to those accounts.
Mr T has accepted the investigators recommendations. He says that both accounts are now 
showing as closed on his credit report but the missing payments still will affect  his rating for 
upto six years. Virgin Media  Mobile  Finance hasnt responded  to the investigators  
recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Other than sending a letter to Mr T in October  2018 after it was contacted  by this service 
about Mr Ts complaint,  Virgin Media Mobile  Finance hasnt provided any information  about 
this complaint or responded  in any meaningful way to the correspondence that its been sent 
by this service. The investigators view was sent by e-mail and letter  to it in August and 
September 2019 using the correct  contact details and a further  e-mail  requesting  a response 
was sent to it in October 2019, copied to its named operational contact  but no response 
has been received.
So theres very little information on which I can base my decision.  But it seems clear  that 
Virgin Media Mobile Finance had recorded two open accounts for Mr T on his credit file  
one with an outstanding balance of more than £200. But he says that its now amended  that 
information to show that both accounts are closed.  
Ref: DRN18290652A debt collection agency  has provided evidence to show that it was instructed by Virgin  
Media Mobile Finance in December 2015 to recover a balance  of £16.20 from Mr T which he 
then paid to it between January and March 2016. So, on the basis  of the limited evidence 
available, I consider it to be more  likely  than not that Mr T has paid the amount that he owes.  
And Ive seen no evidence to show  that theres an outstanding balance on either  of his 
accounts with Virgin Media Mobile  Finance.
So, if it hasnt already done so, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Virgin  
Media Mobile Finance to ensure that Mr Ts accounts are recorded on his credit file (and in 
its own records)  as settled in March 2016 (or earlier) and that it seeks  no further payment 
from Mr T for those accounts.  The missed  payments will still be showing on Mr Ts credit file 
as thats a true and accurate record of his payment  history  and it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Virgin Media Mobile  Finance to remove that information.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And I order Virgin  Media 
Mobile Finance  Limited, if it hasnt already done  so, to:
1.Ensure that Mr Ts accounts  are recorded on his credit file (and in its own records) as 
settled in March  2016 (or earlier).
2.Ensure that it seeks  no further  payment from Mr T for those accounts.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1829065