K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He wants to end the agreement  and 
reject the vehicle. He also complains  the vehicle service history was misrepresented.
background
Mr F tells us that he acquired  the vehicle, in January 2019, from a dealer Ill refer to as C. 
From an early stage he says the vehicle proved to be faulty. Amongst the issues  about 
which Mr F complains  are a drive chain fault;  defective tyres; oil leak; knocking noise on 
steering rack. He further complains that the vehicle was advertised with a full manufacturers  
service history. But when  he later checked  this, he says he found it hadnt  been serviced by 
the manufacturers agents since 2016.
Mr F says hes provided reports from various garages including  the manufacturers agents  
and that these show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. He states that 
some of the faults  he originally complained about  are still unresolved.  Mr F explains that he 
wanted to reject the vehicle within the first 30 days. And claims he was misled  by the credit 
brokers into believing that hed only be able to get repairs carried out.
BMF said that it had provided reports from two independent experts  which Ill refer to as A" 
and S. It says that both of these reports find that the vehicle had been tampered  with after 
the point of supply. It pointed  to an entry on social media which bore Mr Fs name, and which  
contained a photograph of the vehicle and the following description:
"The lunatic M13513.0 straight 6 Turbo 360bhp with JB+ Add on"
BMF said the reports also showed  that the vehicle  had sustained substantial kerbing" 
damage. It felt that the vehicles electronic  control unit (ECU) historical codes needed to be 
recovered in order  to establish when  any modifications may have been made.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 July 2020. Since then both parties  
have replied.
In his reply Mr F alleged that the social media  entry had been fabricated  by C in an attempt 
to validate its (C) suggestion that the vehicle had been subject  to modifications. He also says 
that C removed  the tyres he had fitted  and that the kerbing damage occurred whilst the 
vehicle was with C.
BMF sent information which it said had been supplied by C and relating to the service history  
of the vehicle. It said this had been provided to Mr F before he acquired the vehicle.
I thank both parties for their responses and further comments and information, all of which 
Ive considered. For reasons Ill explain,  Im not minded to change  the view I expressed in 
my provisional decision. This is largely repeated  in my findings which are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16867442I can see that feelings are running  high about  the circumstances  surrounding this complaint. 
Theres very little common ground with C and Mr F both accusing  the other party of 
discreditable behaviour.
Mr Fs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMF  supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle. It would also be responsible for any 
misrepresentation made about the vehicle by C during antecedent negotiations. A 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant  law here includes  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA);  the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA); and the Consumer  
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations  of 2008 (CPUTR).
Our investigator gave  a detailed timeline of events in his view of 12 December 2019. I shant 
repeat everything  in detail here as the parties have seen it. In summary, it sets out the 
chronology of the relevant  issues which Ive to consider in reaching my final decision.
Mr Fs complaint is that the vehicle with which he was supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
And that he was misled  by C about  the service history and his rights to reject the vehicle.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
In a case where theres little agreement, Ill nonetheless try to begin with those issues which 
arent in dispute.  Mr F acquired the vehicle in late January 2019 shortly after it had passed a 
MOT test conducted by a garage  Ill refer to as K. The odometer reading  at the MOT  was 
recorded as 67,795. There was one advisory which referred to thin rear brake pads. On 28 
January 2019  a drive chain fault code appeared. Mr F contacted C and it was suggested 
there may be a sensor fault. As the car wasnt holding properly Mr F went and had two tyres 
changed. He said he was advised there was no tread on these items. This led to Mr F 
questioning the service  history and to him apparently discovering the discrepancy between 
the advertised description of a full service  history and the fact the vehicle hadnt been 
serviced by an approved  manufacturers  agent since 2016.
Ive been supplied with a copy  of an email which gave some details of the history  of this 
vehicle and which was supplied to Mr F on 26 January 2019, before he acquired the vehicle. 
Other than the dates and locations of the centres visited,  theres  no information about the 
nature of the work  carried  out. The email suggests it wouldve been necessary for Mr F to 
contact each centre to establish what work  had been done. The last recorded entry is in 
March 2017 which is almost two years  before  Mr K acquired the vehicle. This suggests the 
vehicle probably  hadnt been  serviced  by an approved agent after this time. And as Ive not 
seen what work was carried out on this occasion,  I cant be sure if this was the last service 
or if that was done earlier.
Ref: DRN16867443On a balance  of probabilities, I find the vehicle was not supplied  with a full service history  by 
which I mean that it had not been serviced  in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommendations.
In the next few weeks the drive chain  fault code persisted  and the vehicle needed more oil 
than normal. The vehicle  was inspected and was described as having a non-genuine  oil 
filter. Ive assumed  this means  a brand other  than that authorised by the manufacturer. This 
wouldnt necessarily mean such a part was sub-standard. But it might potentially affect 
issues regarding warranties as well as the interaction with genuine" parts.
The vehicle was returned to C on or around  21 February. Various  faults including  the drive  
chain and oil issues were  highlighted. Mr F has provided video evidence of the images  and 
fault messages  displayed.  The fault codes were cleared by C but when the vehicle  was 
returned to Mr F they immediately reappeared.  After  a good deal of toing and froing"  with C, 
the vehicle was examined in early March by a VAT registered  business Ill refer to as R". R 
reported various repairs would be needed  including a replacement steering rack and other 
repairs totalling around £2,900. This figure didnt include  oil pressure issues  which R said 
would need to be further investigated at an extra cost. The vehicles warranty  was limited to 
£1,000 and the vehicle  was returned to C on 20 March  2019.
At one point  it appeared that BMF accepted the vehicle should be rejected.  But a letter from 
Cs solicitors appears to have caused a change of view.  And between  April and September  
the vehicle was at different times inspected by a succession of businesses  instructed by the 
parties. Ill summarise what was reported.
Dealing briefly with information supplied by K (MOT inspectors)  dated 2 April 2019.  It said 
the vehicle had passed the MOT on 17 January 2019.  When it later inspected  the vehicle, it 
reported that since it last examined the vehicle there  was a chunk out of the nearside front 
tyre; steering rack functioned well but there  was a slight knock noise;  battery had been 
tampered with and there were loose wires. No oil leak was recorded. It said when the MOT 
had been carried  out all the tyres had over 6mm of depth. And it concluded that the vehicle 
had since been  driven rough/hard. The odometer reading was recorded as 70,041 miles.
A business Ill refer to as BA stated that it had carried  out the pre-delivery inspection on this 
vehicle on 15 January 2019  and found  no issues with the vehicle.  When  it saw the vehicle 
again on 25 April it said the front tyres  were low; the battery area of the vehicle had been 
messed with and a different oil filter had replaced the one it had fitted. The odometer reading 
was recorded  as 70,042.
Subsequently the vehicle was seen by A on 16 July and S on 9 August. The respective 
odometer readings at the start of the inspections were recorded as 70,083 and 70,091.  
Broadly speaking, A and S reached the same conclusions. Both reported substantial  
accident damage which was attributed to kerbing" to the nearside front wheel and tyre. Both 
reported the battery had been tampered with and the terminal  cover had melted. S reported 
a knocking sound from the nearside steering rack. Both reports  observed  that the vehicle 
crash sensor had been disconnected. In conclusion, these reports  found the issues  identified 
probably wouldnt have  been present at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN16867444Mr F then arranged  to have the vehicle examined by other experts. On 28 August  the vehicle 
was inspected by one of the manufacturers  approved garages a business Ill call SY". It 
found a substantial oil leak from the gearbox/engine area; knocking noise from steering rack; 
non-genuine track rod fitted  to offside front wheel and non-genuine brake discs fitted to front. 
It also stated that the crash sensor had not been disconnected. It explained that the loose 
cable in the boot (identified by A and S as the crash  sensor)  was the Intelligent Battery 
Sensor (IBS).  It said patina had developed on the battery terminal  suggesting the corrosion 
had taken place  over a long period.
On 12 September  a VAT registered garage  Ill call AS inspected the vehicle. The odometer 
reading was recorded as 70,999. In summary,  it concluded that the oil leaks  were  present 
prior to supply; there  was an unresolved issue with the drive  chain;  the IBS - not the crash 
sensor - was disconnected. And this had taken place prior to purchase  judged by the 
corrosion on the terminal. It concluded  the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of supply. I 
add for completeness  that this report was accompanied  by a statement of truth as were the 
earlier reports from A and S.
From the above it can be seen that there are many contradictions in the information provided 
by the parties.  Its not easy to reconcile all of these  conflicts. Where  information is unclear, 
contradictory or facts  are in dispute - as is the case here - I reach  my conclusions  on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ive decided that I should treat this complaint  as comprising two main  but distinct  areas of 
dispute. Mr F complains about the vehicle not being  of satisfactory quality and being  
misrepresented. He says that C supplied the vehicle in poor condition  having taken steps to 
try to disguise the various faults and mislead him about its service  history.
In turn, BMF and by extension C, reply  that Mr F damaged  the vehicle by making 
unauthorised modifications  to increase  the horsepower. And that he drove it - or allowed it to 
be driven - so roughly that it sustained kerbing  damage. They  claim it was Mr Fs actions 
that caused the vehicles  current problems. And that he shouldnt be able to reject  it.
In my opinion, theres plausible  evidence that significant elements of what both parties have 
told us is probably correct. In plain  terms that means I have to decide  if the vehicle was of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. I also need  to consider whether - if any redress should 
arise out of that decision - it should  be affected by any damage that its alleged Mr F has 
caused to the vehicle  by the manner of driving  and the making of unauthorised 
modifications.
When the vehicle  was supplied, it would be anticipated the agreement would run its course.  
If any end of contract charges such as damage  beyond fair wear  and tear were appropriate, 
they would  be applied at that time.
Alternatively, if BMF believed Mr F had breached the terms of the agreement  then it was 
always open to it to terminate the agreement early. Its not done so. If the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality or thered been a misrepresentation. Id expect BMF to put things  right in 
accordance with its obligations under the CRA  and CCA. I cant see any reason why I should 
approach this complaint any differently from that set out above.  I intend to deal with the 
issues of the alleged misrepresentation as well as that of satisfactory quality and issue  a 
decision on those aspects.
Ref: DRN16867445If, upon the return of the vehicle, BMF wishes to claim costs for damage above fair wear  and 
tear and/ or take action  for any alleged breach of another  term of the agreement  that will 
need to be dealt with as a separate issue.
Ill deal briefly with the issue of misrepresentation. A misrepresentation  is a false statement 
of fact which induces a consumer to enter  into an agreement and to suffer  a loss due to the 
misrepresentation.
Here, I find there was a false statement in the advert. That was to the effect  that the vehicle 
would be supplied with a full manufacturers service history. As it turned out the vehicle 
hadnt been serviced by an approved agent of the manufacturer  since at least 2017 and 
possibly as early as 2016. But I doubt if this false statement induced Mr F into entering  the 
agreement. He only made enquiries  after the problem with the tyres. If the service history 
had been a substantial ingredient in his decision to acquire the vehicle,  Id have expected  
him to make  rather more  vigorous checks and require some detailed  documentary evidence  
prior to entering the agreement. He was provided with some  basic details but nothing that in 
my opinion showed the vehicle to have a full service history. I find on a balance  of 
probabilities that there was a false statement but that it didnt amount to a misrepresentation.
In terms of whether  the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied Ive decided  on a 
strong balance of probabilities that it wasnt. Ill explain  why.
The odometer readings between March and September were  little altered so the vehicle was 
probably in similar condition when  examined by the various businesses. This makes  it all the 
more surprising that there was such a variation in the respective findings.
 
Mr F reported issues with oil pressure, and a chain drive fault early on. And within  a few 
weeks R had diagnosed the vehicle  as needing  a replacement steering rack and that the oil 
pressure issues required further investigation. Those findings were substantially  supported  
by AS and SY.
Why this oil leak was only observed by AS and SY isnt clear. But its more  probable  that an 
oil leak would be overlooked rather than one would be reported  that wasnt  present. Given  
the evidence of Mr F needing  to top up the oil more than normal and R diagnosing a problem 
with oil pressure soon  after supply, its more probable than not that this fault was present at 
the point of supply.
Im aware that in most respects BMF is reliant on the information  its been given by C as to 
the original state  of the vehicle. And I note that although the pre-delivery inspection form 
bears the stamp of C - its BA which actually claims to have carried out this inspection. How 
and why this discrepancy  has arisen hasnt been adequately explained. It casts  doubt upon 
how thoroughly  and by whom  the vehicle was inspected before supply to Mr F.
SY reports an issue with the steering rack - also identified earlier by R. And both AS and SY 
state the crash sensor hasnt been  disconnected as its situated in the centre  console  and 
not the boot. Its unlikely  a specialist agent such as SY would make an error about this. Both 
AS and SY suggest  the patina on the battery terminal is indicative of corrosion having taken 
place over a long period. Which suggests the tampering took place prior to supply.
Ref: DRN16867446Ive also taken into account the report of SY which finds that non-genuine  parts  were  used. 
Amongst those identified  were the track  rod end, battery,  brake  pads. Given the short time 
the vehicle was in Mr Fs possession it seems improbable that he wouldve had this amount 
of work carried out. Its more probable  than not that these parts were already fitted to the 
vehicle when supplied  to Mr F.
The significance of this can be seen from the report of AS which  stated:
It would also appear that not all facts were made  available to the writers of said reports (A 
and S) In that the steering  rack knocking is not as a result of kerb damage but as a result  of 
the original need to replace the RH Track Rod End & Track Rod."
It went on to say that the manufacturers:
stipulate that the steering  rack must be replaced  as a result  of any trauma  to the steering or 
suspension. The steering rack currently on the vehicle Is the original & wasnt replaced when 
the non-genuine Items were fitted".
AS said this wouldve  been prior to supply. Im not aware to what  extent, if any, the vehicle 
was stripped down  when  being inspected by A and S. Its possible that the above information  
mightve altered  their opinion as to how the damage to the steering rack occurred.
Theres no doubt the vehicle has now been subject to substantial  impact damage but given 
the above I find its more probable than not that it wasnt  the direct cause of any issues  with 
the steering rack.
In summary,  I find the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied. A false  
description was also applied in terms of its service  history. So much time has now elapsed  
since the original  complaint  that it wouldnt be reasonable  to require Mr F to accept  the 
vehicle back. BMF and C had ample time to repair the vehicle but decided  not to do so.
The CRA requires  repairs to be carried out in a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer. Were past the time where either of those objectives is 
feasible. Its fair and reasonable  that Mr F should  be able to reject  the vehicle  and end the 
agreement.
Our investigator, in line with our usual approach, recommended that the deposit be 
refunded. Ive not seen a dealers invoice  - which would be helpful  - but the finance 
agreement shows that Mr F paid £3,350 in cash and £2,150 cash equivalent  via a part 
exchange vehicle.  I agree that the full deposit should be refunded.
Our investigator also recommended that some  consequential losses  should  be awarded. Its 
reasonable that losses arising directly from those  elements of the vehicle which led to it not 
being of satisfactory  quality should  be repaid. And that includes the costs  of inspections and 
recovery charges.
Ref: DRN16867447Im not minded  to award the £290  claimed  for the replacement tyres. The vehicle passed  a 
MOT shortly before supply. Tyres are a serviceable item particularly susceptible to wear and 
tear. Ive not seen sufficient information  to show the tyres  were  defective when supplied. If 
the replaced tyres had been  without  tread  at the time of supply  its unlikely - given the 
proximity of the MOT  to the date of supply - the vehicle  wouldve passed the MOT.  And it 
shouldve been  relatively easy for Mr F to check the state of the tyres prior to entering the 
agreement if they were a matter of concern to him.
Im also minded to reduce  the investigators recommended  award of £350 for distress and 
inconvenience. Certainly, in the latter stages additional delays were  caused by Mr F putting 
onerous conditions  on allowing  access to the vehicle  in order for historical ECU codes to be 
recovered. As a result, this still hasnt been done. In the circumstances I think  £200 is more 
appropriate.
I want to make it clear that my decision doesnt  preclude BMF  from seeking  to apply 
contractual charges it may claim have arisen  from damage  beyond  fair wear and tear if any 
has occurred whilst  the vehicle has been in Mr Fs possession. Thats in line with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement. Whether  it chooses to do so is matter  for BMF and does 
not form part of this complaint.
Similarly, as Ive decided  that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory when supplied, I dont need  
to make any finding in relation to whether Mr F made an unauthorised modification to the 
vehicle. Or comment further upon the social media entry which  is the subject of different 
explanations by the parties. Those matters might become  relevant  if a complaint arises out 
of any end of contract charges, should they be applied. But its not necessary for me to deal 
with them  in order for me to determine this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint.
I now require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr F to pay subject to payments being 
made up to date to end of March 2019;
2.Arrange collection  of the car at no cost to Mr F;
3.Refund the deposit of £5,500  paid by Mr F which comprised of £3,350  cash and 
£2,150 part-exchange  value;
4.Refund any monthly payments made  in respect  of instalments which  accrued for any 
period after 31 March 2019;
5.Refund the payment for oil and replacement  parts, £112.61;
6.Refund the payment for recovery  of the car, £75;
7.Refund the payment for the inspection report by SY, £90;
8.Pay £200 to Mr F for distress and inconvenience  caused;
Ref: DRN168674489.Refund the payment for the car inspection by AS, £150;
10.Arrange for any adverse entries relating to this agreement to be removed from Mr Fs 
credit file. Subject  to all sums  due from the agreement being  paid have the 
agreement recorded as settled.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to any payments arising from 
items 3,4,5,6, and 7 above from date of payment to date of settlement.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1686744