K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of her car, 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy
background
Miss Ss car was written-off  in an accident  in March  2019. Shes unhappy with Admirals  
valuation of it as she thinks the amount offered is too low. She says that it doesnt take 
account of the additional  features  of the car, including its specific  paint job. She would  like to 
be paid a price that reflects  this, and thinks that is nearer to £12,000.
Admiral said its valuation  of £7,820  reflected the cars market  value at the time of loss, as 
defined in the policy terms. And was the highest of the valuations  shown for the car in three 
of the main trade  guides. These gave values of £5,905, £6,775  and £7,820. 
Miss S asked us to look into this complaint. Our investigator  explained that we dont decide  a 
valuation. But we can look at whether  an insurer reached its valuation reasonably and in line 
with the policy.  He looked at three  relevant motor trade  guides  and found that the value 
given was within the range that they set out. But Miss S remains unhappy and has asked for 
an ombudsman to review.  She maintains that she felt she had insured  her car for £12,000 
and the valuation put forward  by Admiral was unfair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ss policy says that in the event of the car being damaged, the most  Admiral will pay is 
the cars  market value  at the time of the loss. The market value is defined as the cost of 
replacing the car with one of a similar model,  make, year, mileage and condition at the time 
of the loss. Therefore, I think the market  value put forward by Admiral is reasonable and Ill 
now explain  why.
We dont value cars, but we check to make sure that insurers have acted fairly and 
reasonably in doing so. We think a fair way of doing  this is to look at the valuations in the 
relevant trade guides. We generally  find these  persuasive as theyre based on extensive 
nationwide research  into the likely selling prices of cars. The guides  also take account of a 
cars mileage and any extras when giving a valuation.  Ive reviewed the values  across  three  
guides, which value  the car between £6,762 and £7,820. Admirals  valuation is at the top of 
this range of values.  
Miss S has stated that her car, with its specific extras and paint scheme, was rare and as 
such its value should be higher. Whilst I appreciate  how much  her car meant to her and the 
sentimental value  that it held, such features  dont  necessarily increase its value. The guides 
have taken the extras of the car into account - but individual extras and a rare paint scheme 
can sometimes decrease its value in the eyes of some potential  buyers. 
Miss S has stated that she felt she had insured her car to the value of £12,000, because  
when she took the insurance policy out, she was asked what she valued the car at. 
However, the policy documentation  provided  to her at the time,  shows  that she was only 
Ref: DRN12905272ever insured  for the market value of the car. I am therefore not persuaded that Admiral led 
Miss S to believe her car was insured for this amount. Although she input her valuation  of 
the car, Admiral didnt  insure it for this amount and it didnt affect the amount she paid for her 
policy. 
Admirals offer was at the top of the range  of the trade guides valuations,  I think it acted 
reasonably and its settled her claim in line with the terms  and conditions of the policy.  So, 
Im not going  to uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1290527