K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2007.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ps Barclaycard account when she applied for the card over the internet.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with our adjudicator.
Mrs Ps main complaint  is that she was unaware she was taking out PPI. She also told us 
that she had excellent cover  through her employer should she have been unable  to work and 
so she wouldnt have  chosen this policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Heres why I say this.
Based on what we know about  the way Barclays sold PPI this way, I think  Mrs P wouldve 
seen that she had to say if she wanted  to take out the PPI. It wouldnt have been  put on her 
account if she hadnt selected  the option  to add it on. So I think that Barclays made  Mrs P 
aware that the PPI was available as an option  with her card and she chose to take it.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave her enough clear information so she could 
decide for herself if she wanted to have  PPI.
Mrs P was eligible for the policy.  There were some things the policy didnt cover but it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Mrs Ps case when she took out her credit  card.  So, I dont 
think having more  information about  things the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking  
it out. 
Mrs Ps employer  wouldve paid her full sick pay for 6 months then half pay for the next 
6 months if she was off work as a result of accident or sickness.  But the policy wouldve paid 
more than her minimum credit card repayments  for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. Bearing in mind that Mrs P mightve also 
had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled, I think  this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And as well as this, the policy  wouldve  also protected Mrs Ps credit card repayments if she 
lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
So, looked  at overall, I think  the policy couldve provided her with valuable cover if shed 
needed to claim. 
Ref: DRN18623162I dont know if Barclays properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what  it might  pay 
out if Mrs P made a claim. But even  if she hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would  
actually cost on a month  to month  basis, Mrs P chose to take out the policy  when she didnt  
have to  so she seems  to have wanted  it. The policy  appears  to have been affordable for 
her when she took it out  and she couldve cancelled it at any time if her circumstances 
changed or she didnt want to keep paying  for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  her, I think it unlikely Mrs P wouldve made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1862316