K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained that the early repayment charge (ERC) she paid to redeem her 
buy-to-let mortgage  with Clydesdale Bank Plc is unfair. 
background
In August  2016  Miss R took out a fixed rate buy-to-let mortgage  with Clydesdale. The 
mortgage offer explained that if the mortgage  was repaid before 30 September  2018 an ERC 
would be applied, to a maximum of £4,980.
In July 2018 Miss R redeemed her mortgage. She then complained about the ERC saying it 
was unfair.  Miss R said that the ERC she paid of £3,178.62 was more  than the £2,477.64 of 
monthly payments  left of the fixed  rate period (as there was only a few months left to run). 
Initially she said she wanted  the difference between those two sums refunded, but then  
upon referring the matter to us  said the whole ERC should be refunded.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was clear in the paperwork and 
Clydesdale had calculated it fairly;  he said ERCs werent calculated on an individual  basis.  
Miss R said she wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Miss R, but although Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power  under our terms of reference to comment  on, or 
otherwise determine,  how financial businesses operate in general terms.  I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Miss Rs particular  situation. When I do that, Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC are set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should  have been readily 
understandable to Miss R; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a manner 
that met the regulators  requirements. So Im persuaded Miss R knew   or at least should 
have known  how much shed have to pay if she repaid the mortgage before the end of the 
fixed-rate period.  
The rules  of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed  as a cash value,  and must  be a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the costs  resulting from early  termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC,  and can calculate  the same level of ERC  across a group 
of mortgages  of similar type, rather than for individual loans.  Whilst this isnt a regulated  
mortgage (because it is a buy-to-let) it seems reasonable to use these rules as a reference 
point to what would be deemed fair.
Clydesdale is entitled to set an ERC based  not on the actual cost to it of Miss R ending  her 
own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a 
group of mortgages of similar type.  
Ref: DRN16405882Lenders generally raise  money to offer preferential rates  for its mortgage customers  (both 
new and existing)  on the wholesale money  markets. Theres  a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh  those costs  in the 
form of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money  its borrowed. If a mortgage 
ends early, it doesnt get that interest,  and so doesnt make back  the costs in raising the 
funds to offer that preferential rate.
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate  individual losses  as and when individual  
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual,  when  or if they might do so. So Clydesdale  is allowed to project  how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what  point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion  that cost across  the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, but for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Clydesdale doesnt have to refund the difference,  but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other  way.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Clydesdale was entitled to charge Miss R an ERC as set 
out in her mortgage contract when she repaid her mortgage early.  Im also satisfied there 
was no requirement  for Clydesdale  to only charge an amount worked out based on Miss Rs 
individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to charge an amount based on 
its pre-estimate of the costs of early  termination  of a group of mortgages of similar type.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1640588