K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that, as part of his claim for water damage to his holiday apartment  under 
his holiday home  insurance, Society of Lloyds wont pay his emergency accommodation and 
other costs.
background
In June 2018 Mr B was contacted by the cleaner of his holiday home abroad that there had 
been a large escape of water from a mains pipe which  had flooded  the apartment.  He flew 
out to the apartment with his son and negotiated  the cost of repairs and loss of rental with 
Lloyds. A settlement was agreed  by the end of July 2018.
Mr B asked for his and his sons flights to be paid together with emergency accommodation 
and the cost of a hire car. Lloyds agreed  to pay for the flights  under the emergency  travel 
section of the policy but pointed out that it wouldnt pay for accommodation as it wasnt  
covered. It further advised that the policy provides for loss of rent or alternative 
accommodation, not both. Mr B was unhappy  with this as he felt he had done all he could to 
mitigate his loss. Hs felt that emergency travel  should include other expenses  as it wasnt 
possible for him to travel to the home  and back within one day.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that he thought the terms of the policy  were 
clear and reasonable. He didnt think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to pay for Mr Bs 
expenses other than his flights. And he pointed  out that Lloyds had paid the full claim for 
loss of rent so it couldnt pay for alternative accommodation as well.
Mr B disagreed and pointed out that under  the emergency travel  section  of the policy  claims 
were limited to £2,000.  He had kept his expenses within that figure  and thought it was unfair 
that Lloyds wouldnt  pay his full claim for emergency travel.
The matter  has been passed me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has confirmed  that his claim is made under the emergency travel section of the policy.  
Lloyds has pointed out that alterative accommodation isnt covered as well as loss of rent, 
which is in accordance with the policy term in this respect.
For emergency travel the wording in the policy says:
The Underwriters will pay subject to their prior agreement  and approval:
the cost of one return air/sea or rail ticket to the home for the insured not exceeding
      £1,250  and the cost of one return air/sea  or rail ticket for a member  of the insureds
      family not exceeding  £750.
The maximum amount payable under this section is £2,000 in any one period of
       insurance unless  specified otherwise in the schedule.
Mr B argues  that emergency travel  should  include accommodation and the cost of a hire car. 
His total costs didnt exceed  £2,000 and he thinks it unfair that only his flights were covered 
Ref: DRN10775422when he kept the costs  down. I sympathise with him, it appears that he acted reasonably to 
make sure his losses were minimised.
However the emergency travel cover in his holiday home policy  is quite specific  and only 
applies to one return air/sea or rail ticket to the home for himself and his son subject to the 
policy limits.  The fact that he had to incur other  expenses is unfortunately not covered under 
this insurance. I think the wording is quite clear.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs disappointment,  not all expenses in dealing  with such a claim are 
covered. And I understand  that he believes emergency travel  should be wider  than just 
return flights and the above conditions are just examples. However I dont believe that they 
are just examples  and that they set out the full extent of the emergency  travel cover in the 
policy.
So I think that Lloyds  acted reasonably in restricting its payments under this section  of the 
policy to just the return flights for Mr B and his son.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1077542