K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Js 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  BoS says it didnt  do anything wrong 
in relation to the commission on the policy, but its made an offer as if it had.
Mr Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mr J about  
the commission it received - so BoS doesnt  need to pay back  any of the commission  Mr J 
paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised  my reasons for each  of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. I say this because  Mr J took out the credit card and PPI over the phone.  From what 
we know of BoSs phone sales process,  it made it clear that the policy  was optional and I 
havent seen any evidence that something different happened in this case. Following the 
phone sale, Mr J was sent the credit  agreement.  This stated  that Mr J had requested   
PPI and Mr J has then signed  the form to confirm the details as being correct.
Ref: DRN19862832BoS recommended the PPI to Mr J so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And 
the evidence about Mr Js circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. For example Mr J was eligible for the cover 
and he didnt have  any means  to fall back on, so he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing  about Mr Js employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr J says he had a medical condition  some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont  think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended  
it. I say this because Mr J says he was diagnosed with asthma  at the age of four and had 
some time of school  as a result. But the condition is controlled with medication  and Mr J 
hasnt mentioned having to take any time off work as an adult. So I doubt  Mr J would 
have thought his asthma  would be a reason hed need to make a claim on the policy.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  The cover wasnt  fundamentally wrong for Mr J as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr J would have declined the 
cover had BoS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Js circumstances  at the time of sale and despite  its limitations 
and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think  
he would  have  still thought he had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr J would have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr Js representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant BoS should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr Js representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts and 
circumstances of Mr Js individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Js particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
non-disclosure of commission
Ref: DRN19862833As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs  to 
do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Js representative has made a number of representations about  this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr J should  get back all the money  he paid for the policy  
because: BoS failed  to tell Mr J about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Mr J wouldnt have taken out the policy  had they 
known about the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all the premiums  he 
paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr Js PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BoS has worked this out and based on 
what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Js case  was less than half the cost 
of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Mr J about  the commission.  So it follows that I dont  think the 
non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think  BoS treated Mr J unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Mr J back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has paid back to Mr J some of the cost of the PPI to compensate  Mr J 
as if it had treated  him unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
my decision
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN19862834Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mr Js complaint or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland plc didnt need  to disclose the commission  it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr J paid for the PPI. But Bank 
of Scotland plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. So Bank of Scotland plc 
doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2021 .
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1986283