K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says following the death of her husband,  The Royal London Mutual  Insurance  Society  
Limited incorrectly paid the death benefits  from his pension policies to their children.
background
Mr B sadly  passed away in October 2018.  He had two personal pension  plans with Royal 
London and these provided death benefits.  After  his daughter notified Royal  London of her 
fathers death it issued  relevant paperwork to her.
Mr Bs daughter returned the paperwork to Royal London in November 2018.  It then said, 
based on the information provided, the death benefits would be payable to his wife. So, it 
issued Mrs B with information  and forms to complete.
Mrs B completed the bereavement information form in December 2018. In it she declared 
that shed been financially dependent on her husband. But after a request from Royal  
London for further details she confirmed in January 2019 the form, which had been 
completed on her behalf, was incorrect. She hadnt been dependent on Mr B. Its also of 
note that Mrs and Mr B had been separated for many years  prior to his passing.
Royal Life reviewed all the information it had received from all the interested parties and 
notified Mrs B in February 2019  that the death benefits would be paid to her children. It said:
I can confirm that, as you had been  separated from Mr B for a considerable length  of time 
and were not financially dependent upon him, the claim  will be paid to his children
Mrs B responded to Royal Life with further  details  about her situation. She felt in comparison  
to her children who were grown up and financially secure, she didnt have future  financial 
security. She was also in ill-health. She thought she should receive Mr Bs pension benefits.
Royal London considered Mrs Bs arguments. But it said that following a senior management 
review, its decision to make payment of the funds to her children wouldnt be overturned.
Mrs B had several concerns about  how Royal London decided to allocate  the death  benefits 
from Mr Bs pension  plans. For example, she initially formed  the impression she would 
receive the funds  but ended up with nothing. She didnt  think  Royal Life had taken into 
account all her own or her childrens  circumstances.
Mrs B says the allocation  of Mr Bs pension benefits hadnt happened  in the way it would 
typically. She thought  they should flow to the spouse  first and only after this if appropriate  to 
dependent children. And she said her children werent dependents.
Royal London said that benefits from pension  schemes dont usually form part of an 
individuals estate.  It said the benefits were  payable at the discretion of the scheme trustees.  
And that its decision was based on all the information available  and in accordance with 
scheme rules.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mrs B disagreed and so her complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN12030192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
As this case  arises from Mr Bs passing,  I recognise  dealing with it will have been difficult  
and upsetting for Mrs B and her family.  And I know shell be disappointed with my decision. 
But I hope my explanation  will help her understand why Ive reached  the decision  I have.
I think the key issue  in this case is about  whether Royal London was entitled  to use its 
discretion in deciding who should  receive  the death  benefits from Mr Bs pension.  And if it 
was, whether it exercised this discretion in a fair and reasonable way.
Where discretion is given  to a decision maker it needs to understand the legal position, 
consider all, and only, relevant factors and reach a decision which isnt irrational or 
unreasonable.
In looking at Royal Londons conclusion it isnt for me to say if its the same decision Id have 
made. What I need to think about  is if the decision is one which a reasonable decision 
maker, acting reasonably,  could have  reached.
Ive considered the scheme rules which Royal London have  relied on to decide who should 
receive Mr Bs death benefits. Relevant  sections  include:
13.38 If a member dies and no survivors  pension has become payable, then the scheme 
administrator maypay out the members  fundas an uncrystallised  funds lump  sum death 
benefit in accordance with any specific provisionor in the absence of such provision at its 
discretion in accordance with the order of priorities listed in paragraphs (1) to (3) of rule 
14.1
14.1 If some of the contributions in respect of a member have been used to pay premiums 
under a life insurance contract, the scheme  administrator will, as soon as practicable, pay 
the lump sum benefit from the contract:
(1) in accordance with any specific provision regarding  payment of such  sums under the 
contract; or 
(2) if (1) is not applicable and at the time of the members death the scheme administrator is 
satisfied that the contract is subject to a valid trust,  to that trust;  or
(3) if (1) and (2) are not applicable [as was the case for Mr B] at the discretion  of the 
scheme administrator, to or for the benefit  of any one or more of the following in
such proportions as the scheme  administrator  decides:
(a) any person, charity,  association, club, society or other  body (including  trustees  of 
any trust whether discretionary or otherwise) whose names the member  has notified 
to the scheme  administrator in writing  prior to the date of the members death;
(b) the members surviving spouse or civil partner,
(c) the parents and grandparents of the member or the members surviving spouse or 
civil partner and any children and remoter issue of any of them;
(d) the members dependants;
Ref: DRN12030193(e) any person, charity,  association, club, society or other  body entitled  under the 
members will to any interest  in the members  estate;
(f) the members legal  personal representatives.
Ive not seen anything in this case file which makes me think  Royal  London hasnt followed 
the rules of its pension  scheme.
I can understand why Mrs Bs expectations  mayve been raised when Royal  London initially 
noted in November 2018 that, based on the information it had at that time, the proceeds from 
Mr Bs funds  would  be payable to her. 
But as well as adhering to its scheme rules, Royal London had to consider all the 
submissions it received from several  interested parties. And much  of this information was 
received after the initial  contact in November 2018,  including from Mrs B herself.  And as Id 
have expected, Royal London took all this evidence into account when making its decision.
So, Ive not seen anything which makes me think Royal London hasnt acted in a reasonable 
way when it decided  who should receive the benefits from the late Mr Bs pension  plans. And 
I dont require it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1203019