K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr L are unhappy with Legal  & General Insurance Limiteds (L&G) handling of a
claim made under their buildings insurance policy.
background
There are several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf of L&G. For
ease of reference Ill refer only to L&G by name  in this decision, even when referring to the
actions of its agents or representatives. I issued a provisional decision on this case in 
December 2019,  and Ive summarised the background below:
In September 2016,  Mrs and Mr L contacted L&G to tell it about  a claim they needed  to
make for water damage in their home.
At the end of October  2016, after various  tests  had been carried  out in Mrs and Mr Ls home,
work began to strip out the ground floor. It transpired  that, contrary  to initial indications,
Mrs and Mr L and their family would not be able to remain in the home. At this point, L&G
appointed a second adjuster to take over the management of the claim.
Finding alternative  accommodation for the familys needs wasnt straightforward. In
November 2016,  the family were still living at home when another escape  of water occurred.
Further investigations found the water  was coming through the wall due to a building  defect,
and this needed to be repaired before any further  works  could be carried out. L&G say this
work wasnt covered  under the insurance policy, but the loss adjuster agreed  to cover the
costs in a bid to progress the initial claim.
The work to complete these repairs couldnt begin until January 2017. Mrs and Mr L were
unhappy with the handling of the claim up to this point. They  made their first complaint to
L&G, saying it was taking  too long to resolve  and the delay in starting works was having a
substantial impact on their family,  particularly  their eldest son. L&G issued its first final 
response letter on 17 January 2017 and agreed  the claim hadnt been handled as it should
have been. It offered  a payment for the trouble and upset experienced, contributed towards
costs of the calls made to it and paid £420  by way of disturbance  allowance.
The works to repair  the floor were completed  in spring 2017.  However,  in July 2017,
Mrs and Mr L contacted  L&G,  expressing concern the floor felt bouncy.  L&G arranged  for the
original contractor out to inspect the floor on 5 September, who said a further  inspection
needed to be carried out. This didnt happen until November 2017. The contractor who
subsequently inspected the floor thought  the most likely cause of the problem was a fault in
the subfloor and, as a result of this, the flooring  had settled into an uneven  slab.
Mrs and Mr L were  unhappy with this and raised a second complaint about the quality of 
the works  that had already been carried out. They again explained the impact a substantial  
level of disruption  would have on their children, and why they needed consistency in their 
home environment  and routine.
Ref: DRN14090842L&G responded to this complaint on 29 November 2017. It said, upon the advice of the 
contractor, the flooring  needed to be uplifted.  If the cause of the problem was found to be the 
subflooring, that was unlikely to be covered under their policy. However, if the problem was found 
to be with the way the flooring had been  laid, this would be covered by L&G. It was agreed that 
the work  would begin in January 2018 to avoid disruption over the Christmas  season.
L&G offered  Mrs and Mr L £360  to recognise the delays  in arranging the uplift  of the floor,
and the distress theyd  experienced.
In early 2018, Mrs and Mr L expected works  to begin to identify the problem with the floor.
Between January and April 2018, there was a substantial amount of contact between L&G,
the loss adjuster and various contractors.  They were trying to determine  when  the uneven
subfloor ought  to have been identified; specifically,  if it ought to have been identified before
the first set of works started.
Mrs and Mr L were  unsure what was happening. They made  a third complaint to L&G about
the lack of updates, and the time taken to move forward with the repairs. On 13 April 2018,
L&G issued their third final response letter. L&G said a different contractor had been
appointed to inspect the subfloor  who had found it to not be uneven, and this had caused  the
flooring laid in spring 2017 to feel uneven. L&G acknowledged the delays in arranging  the
repair, and it offered £150 compensation in respect of this. It said the repairs  could be
carried out, with the family staying in their home,  and agreed to pay a disturbance allowance.
In June 2018, remedial works on the floor began.  However, Mrs and Mr L expressed concern 
about the quality of these  works and raised their fourth complaint. They also contacted this 
service on 15 June  2018. And, on 4 July, L&G issued their fourth final response  letter  to the 
complaint about  these  repairs. It said the screed  that had recently been laid wasnt level and 
needed to be redone to ensure the floor was laid correctly. There were  likely to be further  
delays as a decorator couldnt be found to complete some remedial works.
L&G offered  another £500 compensation, in recognition of the upset and frustration caused
by the repairs  not being  carried out correctly. It also offered to consider contributing towards
the financial losses Mrs and Mr L say they incurred as a result of cancelling treatment Mrs L
was due to undergo abroad.  Mrs L said that she had been  advised to cancel this treatment
by the medical  professionals  involved primarily as a result  of the high levels  of stress  shed
been experiencing.
Mrs and Mr L confirmed they wanted  this service  to review their complaints against L&G.
They told us about  the substantial impact  the disruption has had on their family  since  the
leak was initially identified  in July 2016, saying it took two years for lasting and effective
repairs to be carried out. The family  had several months where  they were living in alternative
accommodation, and then a later period  when  they were unable  to readily access the lower
floor of their home. And Mrs L has shared her concerns  about  what she believes to be
potentially lost development opportunities  for their oldest son.
When we accepted Mrs and Mr Ls complaint for investigation, L&G didnt consent to our 
considering the first two complaints (those  addressed in the final responses letters  dated  
17 January and 29 November 2017). L&G said Mrs and Mr L hadnt referred those  
complaints to this service  within  six months  of each final response date and, as a result,  it 
would not provide its consent for us to investigate and consider those complaints.
Ref: DRN14090843Our investigator considered everything both sides had said.  And in his view,  a fair and 
reasonable outcome was for L&G to pay Mrs and Mr L a total of £5,000 for the trouble and
upset experienced  throughout the claim,  less any payments theyd already received.
Neither side thought  this was a fair outcome. L&G repeated  that it didnt consent to the time
barred aspects of the complaint being considered  and didnt think the investigator had given
enough rationale for making the award.
Mrs and Mr L didnt think the award  went far enough. They  thought L&G ought to
compensate them for the financial losses theyd incurred in the summer of 2018 when they
had cancelled some  treatment Mrs L was due to undergo abroad.  They also thought the
compensation payment didnt reflect that Mrs L had been diagnosed  with severe PTSD
which she said was triggered by the potential  need to move  out of the property  again  during
the second attempt at repairing the floor. Mrs and Mr L also reiterated the impact this matter
had on their children
In my provisional decision I concluded that the first two of Mrs and Mr Ls complaints hadnt 
been referred to this service within six months  of each  of those final response letters.  In 
reaching a conclusion I considered fair and reasonable,  I was only able to consider the last 
two complaints. I recommended L&G pay Mrs and Mr L a total of £1,000 for the trouble and 
upset experienced,  in recognition of the impact on Mrs and Mr L and their family.
Mrs and Mr L didnt agree the level of compensation was sufficient to reflect  the impact L&Gs 
actions had on their family.  They also were  disappointed  I had concluded the first two parts of 
their complaint hadnt been brought to us in time. L&G didnt reply to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  L&G has been  aware of the complex  and challenging 
needs of the family, and the extensive  history of the claim. It offered compensation payments 
in all four of its final responses. It has already offered £650 in compensation for the last two 
complaints to recognise the impact its handling  of the claim had on the family.
On this basis its reasonable to say L&G accepts the claim hasnt been handled as it should  
have been. And, given  it was aware of the families circumstances,  I remain of the view it ought 
to have arranged  for the inspection to take place at the very beginning of 2018, and not waited 
until April to send a contractor out. The repairs then didnt start until June 2018,  11 months after 
Mrs and Mr L put L&G on notice the initial repairs might not be lasting  and effective.
The contractors report from April 2018  identified the repairs that needed to be carried  out. 
L&G had a responsibility to make  sure the works were carried  out quickly and to the right 
standard. But this didnt  happen, and further  works  needed to be carried out in July 2018.
During the summer of 2018,  the family spent eight weeks  living in a disrupted environment, 
and part of this time was to remedy a second set of repairs that had not been carried  out to 
an adequate standard.  So, there  was an unnecessary delay here.  Mrs and Mr L had a right 
to expect the repairs to their home  would be lasting  and effective, but this didnt happen. 
And, given  the extensive history of the claim, I remain  of the view this delay had a 
substantial impact on Mrs and Mr L and their children.
Ref: DRN14090844L&G knew  important it was to get the family  home returned to its normal  state. I can see 
there was frequent contact with contractors  from November  2017. However, it appears  the 
focus was trying to determine when the fault with the sub-floor  occurred and who would be 
responsible for putting it right. I still consider, given what had been shared about  the 
challenges faced  by the family, the focus  should  have  been on getting  an effective and 
lasting repair  carried out as a matter of urgency. 
Mrs and Mr L have told L&G and this service about  the situation with their son. I think going
through a claim  of this nature can be challenging in any circumstances, but its clear from the
information provided that the impact of Mrs and Mr Ls family  especially their eldest son 
at the time was far reaching.
Mrs L has provided us with information from a specialist doctor at the child assessment
centre. In June 2019, the doctor said Mrs and Mr Ls son needed:
his physical  environment to stay the same and his routine to stay the same to feel
safe and regulated his fight and flight response may be easily  and quickly  triggered
and sustained by the slightest changes  in his environment, routine and family life
He will not be able to access learning  or specialist intervention once on permanent
fight or flight He will also regress developmentally and may well lose skills that he
had gained e.g. sleeping through the night; eating and play skills In summary it is
fair to say that it will take much longer for (the child)  to recover from a traumatic
change to his environment, routine and family life
Throughout the history  of the claim, Mrs and Mr L have  been clear about their priority  
which was to protect their son from as much change and disruption as they were able to. 
And I would say that, having reviewed the file notes and available information from both L&G 
and their loss adjuster,  it seems there was an intention to do everything possible to help the 
family. However, its clear  from the information above  that the impact on Mrs and Mr Ls 
oldest son was substantial, with another  doctors report  from late 2018 identifying  that he 
was not sleeping at night,  something Mrs L says was happening before the leak in 2016.
Mrs L has mentioned that shed been diagnosed with severe  PTSD, triggered  by the
prospect of having  to potentially move out of their property again. She says that this was
diagnosed when the family had to restrict their access to the upper floor of the house for the
second set of works.
Ive seen a letter from Mrs Ls psychiatrist, who says they saw her in November  2018.  It said
she had been  presenting symptoms of severe  Post Traumatic Stress  with frequent panic
attacks. L&G were aware of this, but what I think is the key part of this letter is the
explanation that having to recount the effect this matter had on her eldest  son had on Mrs L.
L&G have considered the request from Mrs and Mr L to cover the costs they say they 
incurred following cancelled treatment in summer of 2018. L&G declined to do so, saying 
they were considered to be an indirect loss and not related to the claim.
Mrs L has provided me with a letter from the medical  clinic confirming that she could not
attend her appointment in June 2018. It said that she wasnt  feeling  well and had suffered an
anxiety attack the day before she was due to travel.
Ref: DRN14090845I can understand Mrs Ls view that, had the claim been resolved by the first set of repairs, she 
would likely  have attended  her scheduled treatment  in June 2018. However, while  I can see 
the duration of the claim was a very difficult time, I cant see the claim being  unresolved  was 
the sole reason  she wasnt  able to attend the appointment in June 2018. It follows  on that 
basis, Im not going to direct L&G to refund any travel costs Mrs and Mr L might have incurred.
Mrs L has also said how difficult that recounting whats happened  to both this service,  along 
with L&G has been during  the course of the claim. And I do understand this. Claims of this 
nature, and the following  complaint are often difficult, and even more so given their family 
circumstances. However,  in order to understand the impact these matters had, we needed 
them to be able to talk to them about this. 
Having considered the further comments Ive received, Im not persuaded I should  increase 
the conclusion  I outlined in my provisional decision.  Im upholding this complaint and 
recommend a total payment of £1,000  (less any payments made in the final response  letters  
of January and April 2018) in recognition of the trouble and upset  experienced by 
Mrs and Mr L and their family.
In coming to this figure Ive considered the fact L&G were aware of the history  of this claim
(which goes beyond  what Im able to consider) and could have taken steps  to reduce the 
substantial impact this matter has had on the family,  particularly Mrs and Mr Ls oldest son, 
and by failing to do so, there has been substantial impact on this family.  
my final decision
I uphold Mrs and Mrs Ls complaint against  Legal  & General Insurance  Limited. I direct it to 
pay them  £1,000 for the trouble and upset experienced,  less any payments made in the final 
response letters issued  in January and April 2018.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1409084