K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited (the AA) has been 
charging him for add-ons to his policy, which are being offered free to other customers. He is 
also unhappy with the way its handled  his complaint.
background
Mr B purchased a motor  insurance policy in 2013  with the AA through an aggregator 
website. He also took out additional cover for motor legal assistance and car hire, which he 
paid for as optional  extras.  Mr B renewed  his policy each year on this basis. 
In 2017, Mr B contacted the AA directly to obtain a car insurance quote for a family member. 
He was told that car hire and legal assistance  were included as standard. He says the AA 
told him if hed purchased  his policy directly, as opposed to through  an aggregator website, 
he would  also have  received these options as standard cover.
Unhappy with this, Mr B complained to the AA and asked for a refund. The AA said the legal  
assistance cover was now included as a standard element of the insurance,  rather than 
being free. And car hire was now provided free as part of a promotion  for new customers. As 
Mr B was already an existing customer,  it said he wasnt entitled to free car hire. The AA 
also agreed to refund  one years cost for both additional extras  as a result of incorrect  
information it had provided to him during the complaint.
Mr B subsequently brought his complaint to our service. Two investigators looked  into his 
complaint. They said the AA was entitled to decide  what insurance quotes  are offered to 
customers and that it can have different promotional offers for new customers. And they 
agreed the offer made to refund the additional charges for one year in recognition of its poor 
handling of the complaint was reasonable. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators opinions. He said that we hadnt addressed  the AAs 
absurdities and falsehoods in its responses  throughout the handling of his complaint. 
As Mr B didnt agree,  the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr B has provided lengthy,  very detailed 
correspondence in support of his complaint and he has requested any response mirror  that 
same level of detail. Were  an informal dispute  resolution service, set up as a free alternative  
to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused  on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended  as a 
discourtesy to Mr B. Rather it reflects the informal  nature of our service, its remit and my 
role in it. 
Its clear from Mr Bs policy documents from 2013  that hes been charged separately for the 
motor legal assistance and the car hire since the inception of the policy.  The quote he 
obtained through the website didnt initially include these options   the AA says Mr B 
contacted it later the same day to include them. So, what I need to decide is if it was fair for 
the AA to continue  to charge for those optional extras  at each renewal.
Ref: DRN11750262The AA has told us that in 2014  it decided to provide legal  assistance  cover as standard  for 
all customers that contacted it directly through its call centre. Mr B argues  that if an 
additional option is included as standard then it is not charged and therefore it is free. But Im 
not persuaded by his viewpoint.  What the AA has said is that the cost of this cover has been 
added to the standard premium charged  and is no longer something these customers can 
opt to include  or exclude. This doesnt mean  it is given  free to these  other customers   the 
overall premium has been increased to include this sum. I dont find that Mr B is being 
treated unfairly  by the AA in relation to these charges. As Mr B bought his policy through the 
aggregator website,  it remains as an additional option for him. If he doesnt want  to pay for 
this cover,  he can choose to exclude it. 
Turning to the car hire, the AA says this was given free of charge to all customers who 
obtained a direct quote since  2016  as a promotional  offer. As an existing customer, Mr B 
would still be charged for this cost at renewal. The AA has said Mr B could benefit from this 
promotion by cancelling  his existing policy, bought through the aggregator  website, and 
taking out cover directly.  Promotional offers for new customers are widely  recognised as a 
way of attracting  new business. It is the AAs commercial decision if it wants to make this 
type of offer.  As a service, we wouldnt get involved in commercial decisions unless the 
customer was being treated  unfairly alongside  other  customers in a similar  position.  The AA 
could have done more to let him know about how he could get free car hire following this 
change in 2016, but it wasnt  required to do so. I say this because  it wasnt  treating Mr B any 
differently to other  existing customers by not offering him free car hire. And in any event,  he 
isnt out of pocket  for this expense as he has received a refund  albeit  in recognition  of 
some incorrect information - so I dont  require the AA to do anything more.
Mr Bs is also unhappy with the way his complaint has been handled by the AA and the time 
he has spent dealing  with this matter. Mr B has said that its behaviour has caused him time-
wastage, inconvenience, frustration and distress. I can see he had been  in contact with the 
AA on several occasions about his complaint over a period  of about six months. And having  
reviewed this correspondence I agree that the explanations have not always been  very clear. 
But Ive also noted  that the AA has recognised this, apologised and offered compensation. If 
Mr B was unhappy with the answer he received from the AA when he first made  his 
complaint, he could have referred the matter  to us at that point. So, Im not persuaded any 
further compensation is due.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1175026