K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund  a series of cash  machine withdrawals 
made on his account.  He says he didnt make them himself and didnt authorise anyone  else 
to do so either.  
background
Mr A opened  a bank  account with HSBC. He was sent a debit card and PIN on or about 9 
June 2018; both were  sent to his home address  separately.  On the same day two credits 
totalling £3,100 were  paid into his account.    
On 15 June the card was activated and the cash machine withdrawal limit was increased in 
branch. The bank says the first of these  would have needed Mr As date of birth and the 
second a signature  or other identification.    
Over the next four days  from 15 to 18 June  cash machine withdrawals totalling £2,800 
were made using the card and PIN. Later  on 18 June Mr A called the bank to say that he 
hadnt received  the card.  In the early hours  of the following morning a further attempt to use 
the card was made, but the transaction was declined. 
Mr A said that he hadnt received the card or the PIN and wasnt  responsible for the cash  
machine withdrawals. The money that had been paid into the account had been  money  hed 
saved and money that his parents had given him to buy a car. He said that he thought 
someone within the bank might  have been responsible  for the withdrawals.
HSBC didnt accept  that Mr A wasnt involved.  The card and PIN had both been sent to Mr 
As address and whoever  activated would have needed to know  his date of birth.  The person 
who increased the withdrawal limit would have needed photo identification. HSBC wouldnt 
refund the disputed  withdrawals. Mr A referred  the matter to this service  and one of our 
investigators considered  it. She concluded  that, on balance, Mr A had authorised  the 
withdrawals and that the bank had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly. She didnt recommend 
that HSBC refund them. 
Mr A asked that an ombudsman review  the complaint.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
Im satisfied first of all that the genuine  card was used to make  the withdrawals. Thats 
consistent with Mr As case that the card was intercepted before it reached him. Its also 
what Id expect where a UK card is used  in a UK cash  machine, and its what  the banks own 
records indicate.
Im satisfied too that the correct PIN was used.  Again, thats consistent with Mr As case that 
the PIN notification was intercepted. The PIN cant be obtained from the card itself, and a 
lucky guess is unlikely.  
The card and PIN were  sent separately to Mr As home address which he shares with family  
members. Im satisfied that both were properly addressed.  Whilst I cant rule out the 
Ref: DRN12830802possibility that someone  intercepted them both, I think it more  likely that they were  both 
safely delivered. I note too that further action  was required to activate the card and to 
increase the daily withdrawal limit. Its possible that someone else either  knew Mr As date of 
birth or could find it out, and its possible too that someone was able to replicate his 
signature in a convincing way in order to increase the withdrawal limit. But whoever made 
the withdrawals was able to obtain  both the card and the PIN. In all the circumstances, the 
most likely explanation is that Mr A was responsible for the cash  machine  withdrawals.  
Mr A has suggested that HSBC staff might have been involved in the withdrawals. I think  
thats most  unlikely though. The card and PIN were  sent separately, not from the branch. If 
anything, bank staff would have  been less able than many others to obtain  them;  and the 
risks and consequences of detection would have been far greater. 
Mr A says that he was at work at least for some  of the time that the card was being used. 
However, if he didnt make the withdrawals himself, I think  its most likely that someone 
known to him did so with his knowledge and consent. In the circumstances it wouldnt be fair 
to require HSBC  to refund them. 
Ive also considered the way in which HSBC handled Mr As complaint.  The investigator 
thought that the bank could have completed its investigation sooner than it did, but didnt 
recommend any compensation for that. Given that I think Mr A was involved in the 
withdrawals in one way or another, I agree that it wouldnt be fair to make any award.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further steps  to 
resolve Mr As complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr A to accept  or reject my decision before 23 January 2020. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1283080