K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a secured  loan on their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 2003. Mr and Mrs C paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered the loan 
payments in case Mr C was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Cs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold here  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Cs loan application had a section for PPI. There  were two options to choose  
from: one to take out the policy and one to turn it down.  Both options were  equally 
prominent. Mr C signed the box specifically to buy PPI, and separately  Mr and Mrs C signed 
for the loan application. Then  the credit agreement reiterated Mr and Mrs Cs choice and 
again put forward that there was the option  to not take PPI. And it set out the cost of the 
policy separately to the cost of the loan,  rather than as something that was necessarily 
included. So I think that Halifax  made  Mr and Mrs C aware they had a choice about buying  
the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  even if, understandably,  they no longer 
remember doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check it was right for them.  And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr C 
wasnt affected by any of the policys  main  exclusions or limitations. While he had some 
benefits through work, the PPI covered him for far longer than those  lasted, and paid out on 
top of those benefits. He also had a different insurance policy,  but it covered different things 
to the PPI and wasnt relevant here. Its worth bearing in mind that this loan was secured on 
Mr and Mrs Cs home,  and if they fell behind on their payments they risked losing their 
home. So I think the PPI couldve really  been  useful for them  in protecting their home and 
giving some peace of mind.
The credit agreement clearly set out the cost of the PPI, so I think  Mr and Mrs C wouldve 
understood how much they would pay for it. In any case, it looks like the policy was 
affordable for them, and as I explained  above,  it was useful for them in their circumstances.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
as I explained  above, Mr C wasnt affected by any of those things.
Ref: DRN19185092my final decision
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs C, I do not think  that this PPI policy  was mis-
sold in this case, for the reasons I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1918509