K820x#14complaint
Mr P1 and Mr P2 complain that Thompson & Richardson (Lincoln)  Ltd (T & R) mis-sold  a 
business protection insurance policy to them.
background
Mr P1 and Mr P2 run a farming business  and have a large number  of hens laying eggs. 
T & R is an insurance broker. In March 2017 Mr P1 and Mr P2 approached  T & R to get a 
quote for business  protection insurance.  They had been insured with the same  insurer for 
some years and were looking for like for like cover at a more competitive price.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 took out a policy through T & R with a different insurer.
In September  2017 there was a ventilation system failure in Mr P1 and Mr P2s hen shed 
which caused over 2,000  laying hens  to die. They made a claim on the new policy but were 
told the policy didnt  include  cover for this type of claim. So Mr P1 and Mr P2 complained  
that the policy was mis-sold. They said they specifically requested a like for like policy, and 
if they had kept the same  type of cover as their previous policy,  this claim  would have been  
covered.
T & R said no policy  whether their previous policy or any other   would have  covered  this 
claim. It referred to their old policy terms, which include a warranty clause, and said Mr P1 
and Mr P2 had breached this warranty.
When Mr P1 and Mr P2 brought their complaint to this service,  our investigator thought it 
should be upheld.  She said the old policy included sections  of cover which the new policy 
didnt. This included cover for poultry  heat stress.  So the new policy  wasnt the same  as the 
old one. She thought  Mr P1 and Mr P2 would have stayed with their old insurer  if they had 
realised this  they had now gone back to that insurer. And the old insurer had indicated  it 
would have considered this claim. So she thought T & R should pay the claim (subject to 
evidence of the loss).
T & R disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision in January. In my provisional decision I said
As an insurance broker, T & R assessed  Mr P1 and Mr P2s needs and recommended  a 
policy that it said was suitable for them. Knowing  what their business was, T & R should 
have recommended a policy that met their requirements.
To do this, it should have  got enough  information from them to assess their needs; 
considered the policy  to ensure it met those needs;  and advised them  about  any significant 
exclusions. And as Mr P1 and Mr P2 said they wanted like for like cover,  the new policy 
should have provided the same cover as the old one or  if it didnt, this should have been  
made clear to them.
In this case, the policy didnt include all the cover they had with their old policy.  In my view 
this was significant but Mr P1 and Mr P2 werent  warned about this. They thought the policy 
provided the same level of cover when in fact it didnt provide all the cover they needed. And 
specifically, it didnt  provide cover  for this claim.
Ref: DRN11921382So I think the policy was mis-sold. But I still need  to think about what difference  this made. 
My aim is to put Mr P1 and Mr P2 in the same position they would have been in, if the policy  
hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 are now back with their previous insurer. Im satisfied that if they had 
known the new policy didnt provide the same  level of cover,  they wouldnt have changed 
insurer. So Ive thought about  whether the claim would have been covered if they hadnt 
changed.
The old insurer has said it would consider this claim in the strongest possible terms. But 
considering the claim doesnt necessarily mean it would have been covered.
As the hens died due to problems with the ventilation system  I think  its likely this would  fall 
under the heat stress section of cover in that policy. However, that cover was subject to 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 complying with some warranties.  Amongst  other  things, the policy  required 
them to ensure that:
the building was protected by a working  temperature and mains failure alarm system; 
and
there was a stand-by generator to power the electrics.
So Mr P1 and Mr P2 should have had an alarm to alert them if there  was a problem with the 
temperature or if the electrics failed. And if they didnt meet  these conditions,  the claim 
wouldnt have been covered.
As I understand it, there was no alarm  and Mr P1 and Mr P2 were not alerted to what  had 
happened. And as the power and ventilation failed,  there cant have been  any power from a 
back-up generator. So they hadnt  complied  with the warranties. Taking this into account, I 
think its unlikely the previous policy  would  have covered the claim.  So even if Mr P1 and 
Mr P2 had stayed with their previous insurer  they still wouldnt have been able to claim for 
their losses.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 say the damage was most likely  due to a malicious act by someone  
interfering with their property, so it was outside their control. I dont know  if that is what  
happened. Regardless of that, they had given warranties that there would be a working 
alarm and a back-up generator. As a commercial business its reasonable to expect them  to 
take these precautions, both to comply with the requirements of the policy and to protect 
their business.
I appreciate this incident caused a serious  loss for Mr P1 and Mr P2s business. I dont 
underestimate the impact  this will have had on them. But I have to make a judgment  about 
what would  have happened if T & R had not sold this policy to them. Its likely they would 
have stayed with their previous insurer and its also likely that the claim would not have been 
covered. In these circumstances it wouldnt  be fair to direct  T &R to cover this claim.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  intend to uphold the complaint.
developments
T & R did not have  any comments to add in reply  to my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN11921383Mr P1 and Mr P2 have  made a number of comments. Ive summarised  the key points as 
follows:
They are pleased  to note my finding  that the policy was mis-sold. They took out the 
policy in good  faith that it was a like for like policy  and would provide the cover they 
needed for their business.
Following the incident  they have been left with a substantial loss as a result  of being 
sold a policy that didnt provide the same  level of cover as their old policy.
They think its unfair to decide  this complaint on a claim made  on one policy  on the 
basis of a warranty another insurer  put in its policy; its wrong to rely on a warranty  
from a policy that wasnt in force at the time.  They provided a copy  of their old policy 
to T & R so they could  find a like for like policy and its wrong to use that against  
them. We should look at the policy that was in force. 
They feel their old insurer would have  covered  the claim but as it wasnt  the insurer at 
the time,  hasnt investigated the claim or assessed the loss it would be difficult to say 
it would  definitely  have covered it.
They are sure the incident is an insured  peril and they took out the policy to cover 
this sort of risk.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 have  explained the impact on their business of not having cover  for the 
claim. Their  business  suffered a large financial loss and its extremely upsetting  for them.  I 
appreciate this is a very significant matter  for them. And they ask why they should lose it if 
its accepted they were  sold a policy that didnt meet  their needs. 
When looking at a complaint like this, I have to consider not just whether the policy was mis-
sold, but what the consequences of that were;  my aim is to put the customer in the position 
they would  have been in, if the policy hadnt  been mis-sold. And thats why I have looked at 
the terms of their old policy rather than the one in force  at the time of this incident.
Im satisfied that, if they had realised this policy didnt provide the same cover as their 
previous one, they wouldnt have  switched but would have stayed with their previous insurer.  
That means the claim would have been considered under the terms of that policy.  And if it 
had been, then on balance my judgment is that it wouldnt have been covered, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. So while I know how upsetting it is for them,  I 
dont think it would be fair to ask T & R to cover this claim, if it wouldnt have been covered in 
any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1192138