K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about a sanction Motability  Operations Limited  placed  on any applications 
from him, for a Motability Scheme car.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  the 
complaint, in that Motability should remove the sanction from Mr P, so he can make a new 
application for a Motability Scheme car.
I invited Mr P and Motability  to let me have any final comments and evidence before making 
my final decision. Mr P had no further  comments to add to my provisional  decision. But, 
Motability disagreed  with my provisional decision. In summary, Motability  said:
The insurer is a completely separate third party  from them and they dont have access 
to conversations  the insurer  had with Mr P.
Regardless of what the insurer  said to Mr P, he should have known from the terms and 
conditions he agreed to, that he shouldnt have repaired  the car himself without 
authorisation.
Mr P signed the agreement with Motability  two months prior to the accident. So, he 
should have been  aware  of the terms and conditions of his agreement  regarding getting 
authorisation from Motability before  making any repairs himself.
The agreement  was between Mr P and Motability, so he should  have contacted  
Motability in the first instance,  rather than relying  on what  the insurer had said.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst I realise this isnt 
the answer Motability was hoping for  Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in 
my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
Mr P acted on what the insurer said
The handbook given to Mr P, says that he should  contact  the insurer  if the car was involved 
in an accident.  I acknowledge that Motability  may not have access to what was said in the 
call between  the insurer and Mr P after the accident. But, I dont  think  this means Mr P 
couldnt rely on what he was told to do by the insurer.
In the handbook, I think Motability told Mr P to contact the insurer to handle an insurance 
claim concerning Mr Ps car. And I think  the insurer gave advice to Mr P about what  he 
should do to process  a claim, or about arranging for repairs. I think  the insurer  was 
Motabilitys approved  scheme partner, and Mr P could rely on what he was told, when he 
followed Motabilitys handbook guidance  on reporting  the accident.
Ref: DRN10297722Having considered all the evidence, I think Mr P was given the impression he could  arrange  
to make his own repairs to the car, but that he should be careful. I dont think  it was made  
clear to him, that he should  get approval  from Motability first, after he had spoken to the 
insurer. And I dont think Mr P acted against  any advice, when he arranged  his own repairs  
after the accident.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps agreement with Motability
Motability say that Mr P should have been aware that any repairing garage would need to be 
accredited by them  first, as he had signed the agreement two months prior to the accident.  
I accept that the agreement with Motability was signed shortly  before the accident. But, the 
advice in the handbook  was for Mr P to contact the insurer directly if the car was involved in 
an accident. Ive concluded that Mr P was able to rely on the advice  he was given from the 
insurer. 
So, I dont think this meant he needed  to double check what he was told, with Motability 
before going ahead with the repairs. I think the insurer had a responsibility  to tell Mr P that 
any repairing garage would need to be accredited by Motability, before any work could be 
carried out.
Motability have explained  that Mr Ps agreement was with them, so any matter relating to it, 
should be directed  to them. Motability  also say their terms and conditions should supersede 
what the insurer said. But, Ive concluded that Motabilitys handbook  involved the insurer  
with Mr Ps case. And I think that Mr P was able to rely on any advice given by the insurer.
In this instance, I think the advice the insurer gave Mr P allowed him to make arrangements  
to repair  the car. I think it is unfair to have  expected  Mr P to ignore the advice given to him 
from a party  which Motability had directed him to, to handle a claim arising from the accident. 
Having considered everything, I still think Mr P was given  the impression from the insurer 
that he could repair the damage  from the accident  himself, but that he should be careful  in 
doing so. I think  the insurer  acted as Motabilitys  approved scheme partner here and Mr P 
followed the guidance he was given in the handbook. 
Ive taken into consideration the dealers comments and what  the insurer  said about why the 
car needed a replacement  gearbox.  On balance, I agree that its likely Mr Ps repair  from the 
accident caused damage to the gearbox.
But, I think the sanction put in place by Motability for any future applications from Mr P, 
doesnt follow their own guidelines on why a sanction should be applied. Under those 
guidelines, a five year sanction is reserved for very serious concerns. I think  Mr P made a 
mistake, by carrying out repairs  himself. And I still dont  think  the five year sanction, applied 
to an application  from Mr P by Motability  is fair, when  considering  Motabilitys own guidance 
on sanctions.
It has been more  than two years  since Motability applied the sanction to Mr P, which  means 
he hasnt made a subsequent application  for a significant period of time. In all the 
circumstances, I think  Motability should  remove the five year sanction  from Mr P and allow 
him to make  a new application. It is for Motability  to consider the outcome of any application,  
so I make no finding on what that outcome  should  be.
Ref: DRN10297723my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that I uphold this complaint and Motability Operations Limited should: 
Remove the sanction from Mr P, so he can make a new application for a Motability 
Scheme car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.  
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10297724copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains about a sanction  Motability Operations Limited placed  on any applications from him, 
for a Motability Scheme car.
background
In February 2018, Mr P got a brand new car from a dealer,  through a hire agreement  with Motability. 
He says that within the first couple of weeks, he noticed  a problem with the automatic gearbox, but, 
the dealer couldnt fix the car as the parts werent available. Mr P says he was told it would be fine to 
continue driving the car, so he decided hed get it fixed, when the parts  and a suitable courtesy car 
were available.
Unfortunately, in April 2018, Mr P says that whilst in the car, he and his carer were involved  in an 
accident with another vehicle. Motability organise insurance cover for their customers, through  a 
particular insurer. So, Mr P called  that insurance company to report  the accident and talk about the 
damage. 
During the call Mr P asked questions about repairing the damage  himself, as he said it was only a 
superficial scuff on the bumper. The insurer told Mr P to be careful not to cause further damage, if he 
chose to fix it himself and talked about  the process of getting the repairs  done through  them. Mr P 
says he decided  to have the car repaired  himself,  rather than going  through  the insurer. Meanwhile, 
the insurer  looked into a claim from the other driver, for the damage to their car.
A month  later, Mr P says his car wouldnt start, so he organised for it to be recovered back to the 
dealer. Whilst the car was being towed,  Mr P says he noticed that transmission  fluid was leaking from 
the underside.  Motability were unable  to provide  a courtesy  car, which Mr P found suitable,  straight 
away. So, Mr P says that he had to pay for his own hire car for over a week.
At the end of May 2018, the dealer and the insurers  engineer told Motability that the car needed a 
replacement gearbox. They said a clip on the bumper had been removed from a previous repair, 
causing a pipe carrying coolant to the gearbox, to become loose. The dealer and the insurer said this 
caused a coolant leak, and for the gearbox to overheat.
Motability spoke to Mr P in early June 2018, and told him it wouldnt be cost effective to repair the car. 
They said they would  be ending the hire agreement because Mr P had breached the terms and 
conditions, by repairing the damage from the accident  himself,  and caused further damage to the 
cars gearbox. They also said they would decline any further applications from Mr P, for a car on the 
Motability Scheme,  for a period of five years.
Mr P didnt accept this and complained to Motability. He said that the car must  have had a faulty 
gearbox, and that the dealer  was looking to blame  him for the cost of replacing it. He also complained 
about the time it took for Motability  to provide  a suitable courtesy car. 
In their final response, Motability  said there was a lack of cooperation from Mr P during  the insurance 
claim from the accident,  and that their decision to end the agreement  hadnt changed. Motability said 
they wouldnt look at another application  from Mr P for five years,  but they would  not ask him to pay 
for the repairs to the car. Motability also refunded part of the advance  payment Mr P had paid the 
dealer for the car, and made arrangements to refund two personal independent  payments he made, 
whilst he hadnt been able to drive it.
Ref: DRN10297725Mr P didnt agree  and says the repairs he arranged wouldnt have caused the gearbox to fail. So, he 
brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator was persuaded by the engineers inspection and 
concluded that its likely Mr Ps repair removed the clip on the bumper, which eventually  caused the 
damage to the gearbox. He also said the time taken to find the courtesy car was fair, considering  
Mr Ps specific needs.  And that Motability had done the right thing, by refunding some of his advance  
payment and two of his personal  independent  payments.
Mr P didnt accept the adjudicators findings, so the case has been referred  to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to reach a different outcome  to the 
adjudicator. I think Motability should remove the five year sanction placed on further applications from 
Mr P. Ill explain why.
the quality of the car supplied to Mr P
Mr P entered  into a hire agreement with Motability, which allowed him to get the car. Under this type 
of agreement, Motability are the supplier  of the goods.  This means  Motability  are responsible for 
dealing with complaints about the cars  quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is implied  into the agreement between Motability and Mr P. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality  where they meet  the standard that 
a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory,  taking into consideration the description of the 
goods, the price paid and any other relevant circumstances.  In complaints about  the quality  of a car, 
the price paid, the mileage  at the time of the sale and the cars history need to be taken into account.
In this case, the car supplied to Mr P was brand new and hadnt covered any miles.  So, I think  a 
reasonable person would have different expectations of it compared  to used car. I think  those 
expectations mean that the car would be free of defects, even  minor ones.
Mr P says he told the dealer  about  a fault with the automatic gearbox within two weeks of having  the 
car. He says that he could still drive  the car, despite the fault, by using the steering wheel mounted  
gearshift paddles. He also says he didnt  book the car in for a repair  because he needed to meet 
hospital appointments, and a suitable courtesy car wasnt available. 
I have spoken to the dealer to ask about their recollections of their discussions with Mr P. The dealer 
says that they took the car from Mr P, when  it didnt start in May 2018,  but have no records of a 
conversation about any problems with the car before this.
Mr P has told us about his personal circumstances, in that he had medical appointments to keep at 
the time. And Motabilitys  own telephone records  show  that having a courtesy car, which  Mr P says is 
suitable, is extremely important to him. So, I can understand why Mr P says he was hesitant to stop 
driving the car. Mr P has also been very specific with the alternative  way his car could change  gears, 
where he says the automatic  gearbox didnt work. I have checked  the specification of the car and 
again, I think  Mr P has been credible in what he says.
But, Mr P didnt arrange  an inspection at that point and neither Motability, nor the dealer made a note 
to reflect the problems Mr P says he had. So, theres no evidence to show that there was a fault. Mr P 
says he was still able to drive the car and there are no reports of it failing to start, it leaking fluid or 
that it wasnt able to change gear.  Having considered everything, on balance, I dont think  the car had 
a defect where a reasonable  person  would consider it of unsatisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN10297726the call with Motabilitys insurer and Mr Ps repair
In April 2018,  Mr P says he and his nominated  driver were involved  in an accident whilst in his car. 
The handbook  given to Mr P, when  he took out the hire agreement  says that he should contact 
Motabilitys insurer if ever the car is involved in an accident. On page 14 under the heading Accident 
repairs, it says:
If your car is damaged,  before you take any action to repair it, please  contact  (the handbook names 
the insurer  here) for advice on whether the repair is actually required.
Motability say they placed a five year sanction on another application from Mr P, because he made  
unauthorised repairs to his car, after an accident. They say this meant Mr P breached the terms and 
conditions of his hire agreement. But, considering  the evidence,  I think  Motability gave their insurer a 
role to handle accident  insurance claims and with that, advise their customers on what  they should do 
next. So, I think  the insurer  was Motabilitys approved scheme partner. And I think it was reasonable 
for Mr P to rely on any advice the insurer  gave to him following  the accident.
Mr P contacted the insurer the day after the accident.  I have listened to a recording  of that call and 
Mr P was told by the insurer that if he chose to repair the car himself, he should be careful  not to 
cause further damage. Although Mr P was given the option  to have the insurers authorised  garage 
carry out the repair, I dont think it was made clear  to him that he would be in breach  of his contract if 
he arranged for the repair himself. I think the adviser  gave Mr P the impression  that arranging  his own 
repairs was something he could do. 
Section 12.7 of the terms and conditions of Mr Ps contract hire agreement  with Motability says:
if you want a third party  other  than a Service Agent to carry out such  work on or any repair to the 
vehicle, you should ensure that this third party contacts us first for quality accreditation before the 
work is undertaken.
Together with what Ive already summarised,  page 14 of the welcome handbook given to Mr P by 
Motability also says:
please dont attempt to repair the car yourself.
So, I think the advice given to Mr P in the call he made to Motabilitys insurer after the accident, 
contradicts the terms and conditions he was given when  the contract  hire agreement  began.
I have concluded that Mr P was told by the insurer  he could  choose to arrange  for the repairs  himself, 
but that he should be careful. I think it was fair for Mr P to take advice from the insurer as they acted 
with authority on behalf  of Motability. So, I dont think he was in breach of the terms and conditions of 
his hire agreement, by making  his own arrangements to repair the car.
the damage to the gearbox after Mr Ps repair
Mr P told Motability  that a family member  repaired  the damage to the bumper after the accident. He 
says it was a superficial scuff and nothing to do with the engine.  The car was collected  from Mr P by 
the dealer in May 2018. Mr Ps car hadnt yet been inspected, after the accident a month earlier. So, 
the insurer  arranged to assess the car, directly with the dealer. In the meantime, Motabilitys contact 
notes show that the dealer  agreed that there was a problem with the gearbox, but was waiting  for the 
insurance inspection to take place, to find out exactly what was wrong.
Ref: DRN10297727In his report, the insurers engineer said that a clip was missing from under the bumper, which  held in 
place a hose, carrying coolant to the gearbox. The engineer concluded that the hose had become 
loose, causing a coolant leak. He said this meant the gearbox wasnt getting  any coolant and because  
of the damage caused, the gearbox needed to be replaced. The engineer  also concluded that the 
removal of the clip couldnt have been caused by the accident, but was likely to have been taken off 
during the repair arranged by Mr P.
Having considered  everything, Im persuaded by the engineers report, in that I dont think  the damage 
to the coolant hose was caused before or during  the accident.  There  are no reports  of the car leaking 
coolant before the accident  and Mr P was able to drive it. And, Mr P says there was only superficial 
damage to the bumper,  from the accident. I accept Mr P told the dealer of his thoughts  about the 
automatic gearbox.  But, on balance, I think a major fault with the gearbox happened soon after Mr P 
organised the accident  repair with a family  member.
Mr P paid an advance rental payment of £2,099 to the dealer, when he first took out the hire 
agreement for his car. This payment was made because the car Mr P chose, cost more to hire, than 
the personal  independence payment he received  each  month.
Motability has refunded  £390.94 of the advance payment  to Mr P as a gesture  of goodwill and says 
this refund reflects the time Mr P didnt  have  use of the car. Page 21 of Motabilitys handbook says:
Any Advance Payment  you have  paid may be refunded on a pro-rata basis,  less any administration 
fee where applicable.
I think  the part refund  of the advance  payment is fair because  Motability have considered  the period  
where Mr P could not drive the car. Motabilitys own handbook doesnt guarantee a refund, but giving 
Mr P a refund, based on the time he lost with the car, means  hes only paid for the time he was able 
to use it.
This means  the remainder of Mr Ps advance payment was £1,708.06. Motability have said they arent  
pursuing Mr P for further repayment, despite their estimates being around £8,000 to repair the 
gearbox. So, the majority of Mr Ps advance payment was kept by Motability,  or the dealership.  
Motability took the decision  to write off the car when  the problem  with the gearbox was discovered. 
This means  they lost the value of the car, or the cost to repair to it. Page 11, section 6.3 of the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ps contract hire agreement says:
If we are not responsible  for any loss or damage to the vehicle, then you are responsible  for making 
good that loss and repairing  that damage.
I think  Motability were  able to retain all of Mr Ps advance payment and they could have held him 
responsible for the £8,000  repair cost of the car. So, by refunding  a proportion to Mr P, I think 
Motability have treated him fairly here, as theres no requirement on him to pay for any more  for the 
damage, than he has already.
the hire car arrangements
When the dealer  collected  the car from Mr P in May 2018, Motability started  to make arrangements to 
provide him with a courtesy  car. Page 31 of Mr Ps Motability handbook says:
Replacement cars are subject to availability and the terms and conditions  of the rental firm and your 
Motability contract.
Ref: DRN10297728Mr P says that Motability took six days to get a suitable courtesy  car to him. Mr P has told us that he 
was very specific  with Motability about the type of car he needed, in light of his personal  
circumstances. This is supported  by Motabilitys  contact records  with Mr P. I can see from those 
notes, that Motability did provide a car to Mr P soon  after his car was taken  to the dealers. But, Mr P 
declined to accept it, because it didnt meet his needs. 
Mr P described some very distressing personal  experiences  to Motability, which  explains why he 
needed a certain type of car. I have  considered  Mr Ps circumstances and Motabilitys action with the 
courtesy car very carefully.
I agree with Mr P that it took Motability six days to provide a courtesy car with the specification he 
asked for. But, I think this was a reasonable timescale, given the type of car they had to find from the 
car hire company.  In the meantime, I think Motability  provided a car to Mr P, which  he could have 
used to meet  his medical appointments.  However,  I accept it would have been extremely difficult for 
Mr P to put aside his personal experiences, when  using the car, whilst Motability concluded  their 
search, for one which  he found  suitable.  
Mr P has told us he paid for a hire car of his own for six days and I understand the reasons why he 
did this. But, I dont think Motability should have to refund this cost to Mr P, because they had already 
offered a car to him. In all the circumstances, I think Motability treated Mr P fairly and acted within a 
reasonable timescale in finding him a suitable courtesy car.
the refund of the personal independent  repayments
Motability have provided a copy of their internal notes to show that a refund of Mr Ps personal 
independence payments, was made to him in August 2018.  This covered the period where  payments 
were made to Motability, whilst Mr P was without  his car. Mr P has told us that he has received this 
refund. Mr P did get some use from the car between February  and May 2018 and I think  its fair he 
should pay for this use. So, I dont  think Motability  have to refund any more payments than they 
already have done.
the five year sanction on another application
Motability have explained that their scheme was set up so people in receipt of personal independence  
payments can easily have them directed towards a hire agreement. Rather, than a person  
approaching a supplier  separately  and arranging their own hire deals. So, I think  Mr Ps options are 
limited. In so far as theres no other service which makes hiring a vehicle  using personal independent 
payments, as straight forward  as Motability can. 
I have concluded that Mr P wasnt given clear advice, in the phone  call with Motabilitys insurer when 
he reported the accident  in April 2018. Ive also concluded that, based on what  he was told, it was 
reasonable for Mr P to have  arranged  a repair to the damage from the accident himself. Its just very 
unfortunate for everyone involved, that something went wrong.
In their response to us, Motability have said there are other  reasons surrounding their decision  to 
remove Mr P from their scheme. They said,  Mr P didnt cooperate with their insurer throughout their 
investigation into the accident.  They  also said that Mr Ps hire car was stolen when it was in his 
possession, although this was recovered a few days later. But, in their final response to Mr P, 
Motability relied on him carrying out an unauthorised repair as the reason  why the contact was 
terminated.
I dont think it was fair for Motability to rely on an unauthorised repair by Mr P, when they decided to 
place a sanction on any further  applications from him. Particularly, as there are no other providers he 
can approach.
Ref: DRN10297729Motabilitys own guidelines  on applying sanctions suggest a five year ban on applications are given  
where a customer  has used  the car in some  extremely serious circumstances. Their  guidelines say 
acts of terrorism, crime or knowingly driving  without insurance are situations where they may put a 
five year sanction in place.
I think  Mr P simply  made a mistake  by allowing his car to be repaired by a family member that wasnt 
accredited by Motability.  And I dont think  Mr P was given the correct  information by Motability when 
he reported the accident.  Having considered everything, I think  Mr Ps actions are less serious than 
the examples given to us by Motability, for applying a five year sanction. So, I think  theyve treated Mr 
P unfairly here and I think Motability  should reduce the sanction they gave to him.
Mr P was removed from the scheme in June 2018, which means  he has already been under a 
sanction period for over two years. I think any non-cooperation Motability experienced with Mr P fits 
into a different category under Motabilitys  sanction guidelines. So, I think Motability have not adhered 
to their own guidelines on the sanctions they give out. Had they done so, I think Mr P would probably 
have already served that sanction period by now.
Taking everything into consideration, I think it would  be fair for Motability  to now remove the sanction 
from Mr P and allow a further  application from him, if this is what he wants to do. I make no finding on 
what the outcome  of any application should be, as that will be for Motability to consider.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mr P 
or Motability Operations Limited by 29 July 2020, my provisional decision is that Motability Operations  
Limited should:  
Remove the sanction  from Mr P, so he can make  a new application  for a Motability Scheme car.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1029772