K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) turned down his 
claim for compensation  under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
I issued a second provisional decision on this case in April 2020, a summary  copy of which 
is attached and forms a part of this final decision.
Mr M responded to my second provisional decision to say that he was again  dissatisfied with 
both the content  and the response. In summary  he said:
He remains of the view that he contracted with a gentleman trading as A and he 
would like to see what research I carried out to establish otherwise.
He remains of the view that me concluding he traded  with A, rather  than a gentleman  
trading as A, has a material bearing  on his complaint.
He disagrees fundamentally with my conclusion,  that notwithstanding I accept that he 
didnt knowingly pay D, in reality  that is what he did.
The gentleman  trading  as A said he could  accept  payment by credit card. At worst 
this was fraud, and at best it was misleading. The gentleman trading as A could and 
should have informed him that his credit  card deposit wouldnt be processed by him 
but by a third party  in this case D.
An email from the gentleman trading  as A, which states credit card payment of £100   
which we have  now received is misleading  and a misrepresentation  of the facts.
The payment  taken by D wasnt bona  fide and John Lewis  could and should  have  
declined it, or at least made further enquiries before authorising it.
He disagrees with my finding that whether a d-c-s relationship exists is subject to 
strict application and interpretation.
He disagrees with my finding that D taking  payment doesnt constitute fraudulent 
activity on the part of a gentleman acting as A, A, or D.
John Lewis should, as a matter of natural justice, share  with him evidence and 
information it has received from D as part of its investigation into his complaint.
John Lewis  responded to my second provisional decision to say that it had nothing  further to 
add to my findings and conclusion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also add that Im satisfied that both parties have had enough time to make their 
respective submissions and I see no good reason to delay  any further the issue of this final 
decision.
I remain of the view that whoever Mr M contracted with for the supply and fit of his double  
glazing has no bearing on this complaint.  This is because the reason why John Lewis  
declined his section  75 claim (the subject matter of this complaint) doesnt turn on who Mr M 
might have contracted with (a gentleman  trading as A, or A) but because  Mr Ms deposit was 
paid to, or taken by, D  not a gentleman  trading  as A, or A. 
Ref: DRN13178672I remain of the view that regardless of who Mr M might have understood he was paying his 
£100 deposit to the fact is his deposit   was taken by D meaning there is no valid d-c-s 
relationship for a claim under  section 75 to succeed (the subject matter of this complaint).
I remain of the view that the gentleman  trading as A, or A, wasnt incorrect when he/it said 
he/it could accept payment by credit card. But even if I was to accept what  Mr M says on this 
point the fact still remains that because D took payment  there is no valid d-c-s relationship 
for a claim under section 75 to succeed  (the subject matter of this complaint).
I remain of the view that a gentleman trading as A, or A, stating he/it had received Mr Ms 
credit card payment of £100  is correct.  As Ive said previously even though  a gentleman  
trading as A, or A, didnt  receive the £100  directly, he/it received it by way of a credit  against 
the double glazing  supply (from D).
I remain of the view that John Lewis acted entirely  appropriately in authorising  the payment 
taken by D without  making further  enquiries. 
I would also reiterate that it was Mr Ms intention  to pay a gentleman trading as A, or A. But 
although payment  was taken by D it was for the benefit of a gentleman  called A, or A and a 
gentleman trading as A, or A, ultimately  received this sum, albeit by way a credit against  the 
double glazing supply.  But even if I wasnt of this view again the fact remains  that payment 
was taken by D meaning there is no valid d-c-s relationship for claim under section 75 to 
succeed (the subject  matter of this complaint).
Mr M doesnt agree that whether a d-c-s relationship exists is subject to strict application and 
interpretation. However I disagree  and Ive nothing further to add on this point over and 
above what Ive already  said in both my provisional decisions.
I dont underestimate  Mr Ms strength of feeling that D taking  payment constitutes  fraud.  But 
Ive nothing further to say on this point except to reiterate I dont believe it does and that a 
third party taking payment  in this manner isnt unusual.
Ive listened to one, or two, recordings between John Lewis  and D, but I didnt rely on these 
in concluding  what I did in both my provisional  decisions. Therefore I see no reason to share 
these call recordings, particularly given that John  Lewis has asked that our service doesnt 
do so. I would also add that these calls took place after the matter being complained about 
and therefore  had no bearing on John  Lewis decision  to authorise the payment to D that it 
did. These call recordings  also have no bearing  on whether a valid d-c-s relationship existed, 
or not, at the relevant time.  
Ref: DRN13178673In summary  Im satisfied  that regardless of how, or why, Mr M found himself in the position 
that he did there is no valid d-c-s relationship in respect of the transaction  subject to this 
complaint  the supply and install of double glazing  and therefore John Lewis  did nothing 
wrong in declining Mr Ms section 75 claim. 
I also remain of the view that D taking payment, rather than a gentleman  trading as A, or A, 
doesnt constitute fraud given that it was Mr Ms intention that a gentleman trading as A, or 
A, was the intended recipient of the £100  and ultimately a gentleman trading as A, or A, 
received that £100  albeit by way of a credit  against the double  glazing supply (from  D).
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision represents  the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure.  
Mr M doesnt have to accept my decision, and if he doesnt do so, he will be free to pursue 
legal action against John Lewis Financial Services Limited or any other party he feels  he 
might have a case against.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13178674summary copy of second provisional decision
background
I issued a (first) provisional decision on this case in September 2019,  a summary copy of which is 
attached. 
This summary  copy refers to a company A rather than a company M, as was the case originally. This 
amendment has been made following a valid comment from Mr M that reference to a company M 
might cause confusion. I would also add that this second  provisional decision also refers to a 
company A rather  than a company M.
John Lewis responded to my (first) provisional decision  to say that it had nothing  further to add.
Mr M responded to my (first)  provisional  decision  to say that he was extremely dissatisfied with it and 
that it was both confusing and factually incorrect.
In summary he said,  or asked:
He didnt  ask a company  A to supply and install some double  glazing,  but a gentleman trading 
as A.
He didnt  pay a company that I called  D, because to pay indicates a deliberate act.
He paid a gentleman trading as A, not a company  that I called  A. The gentleman trading as A 
told him he could accept payment by credit card and he assumed that is what  he had done. If 
this isnt what happened  then there is a clear case of misrepresentation and fraud on the part 
of the gentleman trading  as A.
Did I listen to the call recording between him and a gentleman trading  as A?
Did I review the email responses from the gentleman trading as A confirming receipt of the 
deposit?
Did I contact D to understand why it used his credit  card details  without his permission?
What efforts did John Lewis take to ensure the payment made to D was bona fide and not 
made through misrepresentation and fraud?
In essence the gentleman trading  as A said he had merchant facilities  when he didnt and he 
never intended to pay D.
d-c-s isnt set in stone  and regards to any mitigating factors and fairness need to be taken into 
account.
John  Lewis has failed to provide any evidence  that it had contacted D to seek  answers  as to 
why it took payment  from him fraudulently.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I can confirm  I see no reason  to depart from my 
provisional findings  dated  September 2019. However, for the sake  of completeness, I would  like to 
provide the following in response to the points made by Mr M and noted above.
Mr M says he didnt ask a company A to supply and install some double glazing, but a gentleman 
trading as A. But based on correspondence supplied by Mr M containing, amongst  other things,  the 
names of the two individuals he dealt  with and a website  address  and my own research, Im satisfied 
it was a company  that he contracted with and not an individual. But even if Im wrong  on this point Im 
not persuaded  this has any material bearing  on the outcome of this complaint.
Mr M says he didnt pay D because to pay involves  a deliberate act. Now I accept  that Mr M was 
unaware he way paying D, but the reality is thats what  he did. Im also of the view that although  Mr M 
paid D, this payment was for the ultimate benefit of A and it was Mr Ms intention that A have the 
benefit of this payment.
Ref: DRN13178675Mr M says A told him that it could accept payment by credit card,  when it couldnt. But in my view A 
could take payment  by credit  card, albeit by using a third party to process  the payment and for it to 
then get the benefit of this payment by way of a credit  against the supply of the double glazing.  Ive 
also seen nothing to confirm,  at least with any certainty,  that Mr M was told by A that it had merchant 
facilities.
Ive listened to the call to which  Mr M has made reference. And its clear from this that Mr M was 
looking to secure section  75 protection  by making a payment of £100 on his credit card.  Its also clear 
from this call that Mr M wasnt told that his credit card payment of £100 would  be processed by D. But 
equally, he wasnt told that it would be processed by A.
Ive reviewed the email response from A confirming  receipt  of the £100 deposit. But in my view this 
statement isnt incorrect. I say this because  its my understanding that although  the £100 deposit was 
received by D, A had the benefit of it (and therefore receipt  of it) by way of a credit on the supply of 
the double glazing.
I didnt contact D to see why it used Mr Ms credit  card. But John Lewis did and has confirmed  it was 
told this practice wasnt unusual.
John Lewis was satisfied  that the payment to D was bona  fide because  of the details provided to it by 
D, this being the 16 digit PAN, the card expiry date and the three digit card security number.
As already  mentioned, Ive seen  insufficient evidence  to conclude that A ever confirmed  to Mr M that it 
had merchant  facilities.
Mr M says d-c-s isnt set in stone and regard  to mitigating  factors  and fairness need  to be taken  into 
account. However this is a legal requirement and therefore subject to strict interpretation and 
application. And in this case,  regardless of the reasons why, there is simply not a valid d-c-s 
relationship.
As I say above  John  Lewis contacted D and was satisfied that the payment was bona fide.
I will now turn to what Mr M says was fraud. I dont underestimate Mr Ms strength of feeling on this 
point but the fact that the payment went to D doesnt make the transaction  fraudulent. Payments in 
this manner arent unusual and although  payment was made  to D this was for the ultimate  benefit  of 
A, the party with whom  Mr M was contracting with for the supply and fit of double glazing.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that John Lewis  Financial  Services Limited need do nothing to settle this 
complaint.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13178676summary  copy of (first) provisional decision
background
Mr M asked a company, A, to supply and install some double glazing. Mr M paid a deposit  for the 
supply and installation  of the double  glazing of £100  (on his credit card issued by John Lewis) to a 
company that I will call D. 
Mr M says there were problems with the double  glazing shortly after it was installed.
Mr M asked John Lewis to compensate him for the problems he had experienced with the supply and 
installation of his double glazing under section 75. John Lewis didnt agree  to do so because it said 
the necessary conditions for a section 75 claim werent fulfilled.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said the relationship between  the 
parties required  under section 75 didnt exist so John Lewis had no liability to Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. In 
summary Mr M said that he paid £100 on his John Lewis credit card with the sole purpose of securing 
section 75 rights. And at no time did A advise him that the payment would be taken  by D, rather  than 
by it.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I know it will disappoint Mr M but I agree with the investigators view on this complaint.
 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what  I think  is relevant. If 
I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it, 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what I think is the right outcome.
I would also point out that where  the evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely  to have happened 
given the evidence that is available and the wider  surrounding  circumstances. 
Its not for me to decide the outcome of a section  75 claim. Instead, I need to decide if I think  John 
Lewis treated  Mr M fairly and reasonably, taking into account its obligations under  the relevant law, 
which includes section  75.
The general  effect  of section 75 is that if Mr M has a claim for misrepresentation or breach  of contract  
against a supplier of goods or services he can also bring  that claim against John Lewis   provided 
certain conditions are met. One of those conditions is that there  must be a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier (d-c-s) relationship.
Mr M had a contract with A to supply and install double glazing. But Mr M used his credit card to pay 
D. I note that Mr M says that at no time did A advise him that the payment he was making was to be 
taken by D, rather than by it, but that is what happened. Therefore  Im satisfied that what  Mr M did 
was to pay a separate party. This means there is no valid d-c-s relationship in relation to the service 
that Mr M says went wrong  because Mr M didnt  use his credit  card to pay the party  he contracted 
with to supply and install his double  glazing.
If there  was a particular type of relationship - known as an associate relationship - in place between A 
and D then there  would still be a d-c-s link. The relationships which qualify as associates  are clearly  
defined in the Consumer  Credit Act.
Ref: DRN13178677Ive looked into the relationship between the parties. And whilst they did have some form of 
relationship since D supplied the goods to A to be fitted, they arent  associates as defined  by the 
Consumer Credit  Act. 
I accept that Mr M says A misled him, or misrepresented  things. But even if I was to accept  what Mr M 
says on this point Im not persuaded  it would be fair or reasonable to say John Lewis  is responsible 
for this given Im satisfied there isnt a valid section  75 claim in relation to things said or done by A.
I can understand that Mr M will be disappointed by my provisional findings. But Im satisfied that John 
Lewis (taking into account the relevant law) acted  fairly  and reasonably  in the way it responded to his 
claim and so it need do nothing more. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1317867