K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ss son complains on her behalf  that Aviva Insurance Limited overcharged  her for her 
home insurance, failed  to settle a claim she made and breached the Data  Protection Act.
background 
Mrs S had home insurance  with Aviva from 2008  at which  point her premium was £277.98. 
The policy renewed  every  year until the 2017  renewal invitation  documents were sent out. 
Aviva invited Mrs S to renew for the coming  year for a premium of £629.56. As Mrs S was 
unwell her son, Mr S took responsibility for arranging her home  insurance.  He thought the 
premium Aviva was offering was too high so he searched the internet and found another  
Aviva policy for a much cheaper price. In the end he took out a cheaper policy  with another  
insurer. 
Mr S complained to Aviva on his mothers behalf. He said his mother  was vulnerable 
because of her age and had been taken advantage of by Aviva because  she wasnt  an 
internet user. He said there was no justification  for such a big difference  in premium. Mr S 
also complained  that Aviva had breached the Data Protection Act by telling him that there  
was an acting power of attorney on the policy who had called Aviva at renewal and accepted 
then paid at the premium  offered. He said hed been  unaware  until Aviva mentioned it that 
his mother had a power  of attorney  and hed since found out it was his sister.  
Aviva looked  into both complaints. It said it hadnt breached  the Data Protection Act because  
no personal details  had been disclosed. In terms of the premiums charged,  Aviva  said the 
policy had been  correctly rated  based on the information it held and that Mrs S had been 
under no obligation to accept the annual renewal  invitation. It said Mrs Ss power of attorney 
called each year to discuss the policy  and was happy with the cover,  terms and price  
offered. Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr S brought a complaint to this service on behalf 
of Mrs S. 
Whilst the complaint  was with this service Mr S and his sister  made  a claim against Aviva for 
a ring belonging to their mother that had been  lost or stolen whilst shed been in hospital. 
Aviva declined the claim. It said itd taken seven months after the policy lapsed on 1 
December 2017  for the claim to be made. Aviva said it couldnt  be sure the ring had gone 
missing whilst its policy was in force because  there  was evidence from a hospital Mrs S had 
been admitted  to in January 2018  that she arrived with rings  which  was after Avivas policy 
had lapsed. Aviva said it was the policyholders  responsibility to prove the loss and it was 
unable to further consider the claim based  on the information then available. 
Both Mr S and his sister told Aviva that the last confirmed  sighting of the ring had been in 
November 2017  which was when Avivas policy was in force.  Aviva didnt change  its mind 
but it agreed to this service looking at Mrs Ss complaint about  the declined  claim alongside 
her complaints about the policy price and data protection breaches.
Our adjudicator investigated Mrs Ss complaints. He told Mr S that Aviva had made a 
goodwill offer to settle Mrs Ss complaint about the price of her policy. He said the offer was 
for £152.89 which was made up of a partial  refund of premiums and some  compensation.  He 
said it wasnt the role of this service  to decide whether thered been a breach of the Data 
Protection Act  that was the role of the Information  Commissioners Office. Finally  he didnt 
think Aviva  had unfairly declined the claim for the missing ring. 
Ref: DRN13112412Mr S accepted Avivas  goodwill offer in settlement of the pricing aspect of Mrs Ss complaint. 
Aviva updated the interest and sent Mrs S a cheque  for £155.13 in June 2019. Mr S didnt 
accept our adjudicators  findings in respect of the claim.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
pricing
As Aviva made a goodwill  offer in respect  of this aspect of Mrs Ss complaint which she 
accepted, and as Aviva has paid the compensation to her already, theres nothing further for 
me to consider within the context of this decision.
data protection
As our adjudicator said,  its not the role of this service  to decide if theres been any breach of 
the data protection legislation. Thats the role of the Information Commissioners Office and 
any complaint about an alleged  breach needs to be directed there. I note though  that Mr S 
made no comment in response  to our adjudicators findings about this aspect  of the 
complaint. 
claim
I have to decide whether Aviva unfairly  declined the claim made  for the missing  ring. 
Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr S and his sister, I dont think  it 
did. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Ss policy included  personal belongings cover. This provides cover for Mrs Ss personal 
possessions away from the home  up to the limit shown on her policy  schedule (£2,500).  The 
policy also lists the conditions that apply to this cover. One of the conditions is for Proof of 
value and ownership. It says:
It is your responsibility to prove any loss therefore  we recommend that you keep receipts, 
valuations, photographs,  instruction booklets and guarantee cards to help with your claim.
Mr S and his sister say that the ring went missing in November  2017. Avivas policy ran until 
1 December 2017. The claim was first made  in July 2018 which  was 7 months after the 
policy lapsed. Mr S and his sister say that it was some time before they realised the ring was 
missing and even  when they did their mothers health was their priority rather than making  a 
claim. When they realised  the ring was missing  they went over when they last saw it and 
both thought it was when  Mrs S was admitted to hospital in November 2017. They explained 
theyd asked both the hospitals  Mrs S had been  in and out of to investigate  the inventories  
each took of her possessions when she was admitted. Unfortunately neither hospital  had 
followed protocol  and was able to account for Mrs Ss possessions at the time of admission. 
One of the hospitals (not the one Mrs S was admitted to in November 2017) said it had a 
record of Mrs S being admitted with rings but there was no mention of how many nor any 
description. 
Ref: DRN13112413Aviva has said its important to determine whether theres a valid claim and if it falls under its 
policy terms and period of insurance and thats  why its asking Mr S and his sister to provide 
evidence. But beyond  their account of what they think happened to the ring theyve been 
unable to provide  anything  else to substantiate the loss. Aviva said that the fact Mr S and his 
sister had enquired about the ring at both hospitals  indicated they were unsure when exactly 
the loss occurred. It also said there was evidence from the second  hospital  (admitted 
January 2018) that Mrs S was admitted with rings and there  was nothing to show  that the 
missing ring wasnt  one of them. Aviva declined the claim  on the grounds that Mr S had been  
unable to show a loss had occurred whilst its policy was on risk. 
Taking all the circumstances into account  I dont think that Aviva  has unfairly declined the 
claim. Whilst I sympathise  with Mr S and his sister,  I dont think  theyve been able to show 
that the ring went missing  whilst Avivas  policy was on risk. So I dont think  that Aviva has 
unfairly declined  Mrs Ss claim for the missing  ring. 
my final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited made an offer to resolve  the pricing aspect of Mrs Ss complaint. 
Mrs S accepted the offer in June 2019 and Aviva sent her a cheque for £155.13. That seems 
fair in the circumstances. I make no further award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1311241