K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined a claim on their 
private medical insurance policy.
background
In April 2018 Mr J had cataract and vitrectomy  surgery  on his eyes  which was covered under 
his policy. As a result of post-operative treatment, he developed an increase pressure build 
up in his left eye due to a steroid response. So, he was referred to a specialist. 
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs J contacted the business to advise the specialist had 
recommended trabeculectomy surgery to release the pressure in Mr Js eye. 
The business looked into things and said the medical records showed Mr J suffered from 
ocular hypertension. It agreed that the surgery may help reduce Mr Js ocular  hypertension. 
But it said trabeculectomy surgery is only current proven effective treatment for glaucoma. 
And as Mr J doesnt have  that condition, the treatment  wasnt  covered under their policy. It 
also confirmed as there is no equivalent conventional treatment it wont  pay toward the 
surgery. 
The business has also argued that because  this treatment would help prevent glaucoma  it 
isnt covered because  the policy doesnt  cover  the costs of preventative treatment. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs J referred their complaint  to this service. Our investigator 
looked into everything and upheld the complaint. He said that he appreciated the surgery is 
usually used to treat glaucoma, but hes persuaded it would also be effective to release the 
pressure in Mr Js eye. And he hasnt  seen anything to suggest  otherwise. 
He also said that although by virtue  of having  the procedure the onset of full glaucoma was 
avoided, he was satisfied  prevention wasnt the purpose of the treatment. 
The business disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly, and it shouldnt  reject 
a claim unreasonably. So, Ive looked  carefully  at Mr Js medical notes and the policy  terms 
to decide whether thats what happened  in the circumstances  of this case. 
The policy defines  eligible treatment as follows: 
We consider treatment  of a medical condition to be eligible when:
- the treatment falls within the benefits  of your policy and is not excluded  from cover by any 
term in this Policy Book.
- it is treatment of an acute condition
- it is conventional treatment
- it is not preventive treatment
Ref: DRN13875122The business has said Mr Js treatment isnt eligible  for treatment because it is not 
conventional, and they believe it to be preventative.  Ive explored both arguments in more  
detail below. 
Conventional treatment 
Conventional treatment  is defined in the policy as treatment that: 
is established as best medical  practice  and is practised widely within  the UK; and is clinically 
appropriate in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration  and the facility  or location 
where the treatment  is provided; and has either been shown to be effective for your medical 
condition through  substantive peer reviewed clinical evidence in published authoritative 
medical journals;  or been approved by NICE  (The National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence) as a treatment which may be used in routine practice.
I can see from the medical records that the consultant ophthalmologist advised the most 
viable treatment in Mr Js circumstances  would be a trabeculectomy. But the business  
appears to disagree.  It has suggested the treatment  carried out was premature and other 
options (such as laser  surgery) couldve been explored. However, although its referred  to 
some websites, I cant see it has provided any independent medical opinion to support this. 
So, based  on the consultant ophthalmologists medical expertise in this field, Im persuaded 
by his professional  opinion.  And Im satisfied  Mr Js treatment was clinically  appropriate  and 
therefore in line with the policy terms. 
The business has said conventional treatment means that the treatment for this clinical 
situation is in line with national guidelines. The NICE guideline sets out the recommended  
treatment options  are: a) do nothing (depending on lifetime risk of progression); b) use of 
drug treatment; c) if pressure  is not sufficiently lowered with drug treatment then consider 
other options with ophthalmologist. 
Its important to remember that the ocular hypertension was a result of Mr Js 2018 surgery 
that was covered by AXA and the post-operative  steroids. So the treating  doctor  couldnt  (a) 
do nothing, as it needed to address the pressure in order to continue with the post  
operative treatment. 
I can see the drug treatment acetazolamide was also used (b), and it did lower  the pressure  
for Mr J. However, this drug treatment was unstainable due to damage to the kidneys  so 
Mr J couldnt have  remained on this indefinitely. Therefore, the only option  left was to (c) 
speak to the ophthalmologist which is what happened here- and his advice was followed. So 
Im satisfied Mr Js treatment was in line with NICE guidelines. 
The business has said this treatment isnt conventional for ocular hypertension, but it is for 
glaucoma. I appreciate  the business point, but Mr J didnt choose to have this treatment   it 
was recommended by a specialist in this field. The procedure works by lowering the 
pressure inside the eye so I cant see that there  was a risk that the procedure wouldnt be 
effective in clearing the build  up in Mr Js eye. And there is nothing  in the medical evidence 
to suggest the doctors were speculative of whether the procedure will work. 
Preventative treatment
Preventative is not defined  in the policy but the handbook says these policies are designed 
to provide cover for necessary treatment of disease,  illness  or injury.  Therefore, we do not 
pay for preventive treatment or for tests to establish whether a medical  condition  is present 
when there  are no apparent symptoms.
Ref: DRN13875123The business has said the treatment is preventive  as the specialist is trying to stop possible 
sight loss and glaucoma. But Im not persuaded that was the purpose of this treatment. 
Mr J was receiving  post-operative care with the use of steroids- and it was this that caused 
the ocular hypertension. The consultant ophthalmologist recommended  this treatment to 
reduce the build up of pressure so post-operative  treatment  could  continue. Not as a 
preventative measure. 
The business has raised some inconsistencies in Dr Bs submissions  about  the purpose  of 
the treatment, but I dont  think  they are relevant as Im satisfied this was necessary, and not 
preventative treatment. 
Finally, I note the business has said ocular hypertension shouldnt be treated as a disease 
by itself. But it hasnt  provided anything to show why it doesnt fall within  the undefined terms 
illness, injury or disease.
I think in these circumstances  itd be unfair to refuse  to cover the costs of Mr Js treatment.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint for the reasons Ive explained. AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited must  now;
Pay Mr Js claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions  of this policy 
and;
Add 8% simple interest to the amount owed from the date the claim should  have 
been paid until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1387512