K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained on behalf  of himself and the estate  of Mrs M. He says Nationwide 
Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  for their 
mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2001. Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr M in case  he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr M, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
This sale was 18 years  ago, and the accounts  involved  have long since  closed. So I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection  rules  Nationwide were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ms data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Nationwide to have misled Mr and Mrs M into 
having PPI or to have put them under unfair pressure to buy it. But I have no evidence which 
shows thats what Nationwide did here.  I do have sample copies  of what its mortgage  
application looked like around the time of Mr and Mrs Ms sale.  From that, it looks like 
Nationwide wouldve offered the choice  to take or turn down PPI, and wouldve only provided 
it if it was actively chosen.  And Ive not seen any wider problems with Nationwides sales 
process from the time.  So I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that 
Nationwide misled Mr and Mrs M or unfairly  pressured them  into taking PPI. I think  its more 
likely that it gave them a choice and they chose PPI at the time.
From what  Ive seen, it doesnt look like Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M tailored, 
personalised advice about buying  PPI. Even if I assumed it did, that would mean  it had to 
check the policy was right for Mr M  and from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr M was eligible for the cover and wasnt  
affected by any of its main  exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN17334202While Mr M said he had good sick pay, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that, and it 
offered him more  comprehensive cover. He doesnt  seem to have had any other  significant  
cover in case he lost his job, which was always a possibility and potentially left him at 
serious risk. While Mr and Mrs M had some savings,  those wouldve only lasted for so long if 
needed to cover Mr Ms income.  And the PPI meant they could protect  their savings and use 
them for other things,  rather than having to sacrifice  one asset  to cover another.  Further, the 
mortgage was a significant,  long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee theyd have 
the same  benefits  or savings in the many years  to come. Its worth bearing  in mind that if 
Mr and Mrs M fell behind  on their mortgage payments, they couldve lost their home. So it 
seems reasonable  for them to have insured Mr M to help protect their home.
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs M about PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better  information  was likely to 
have changed  their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr M wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went  
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much  it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mr and Mrs M could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall,  I dont  think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand Mr Ms point that weve  found  other different PPI policies to have been 
mis-sold. But different  PPI policies worked  in different ways,  were suitable for different 
people, were sold using  different  methods  at different times, and so on. So just because 
some policies were mis-sold, it doesnt mean that other ones were, too. We look at each 
case on its own merits, and Ive explained  above why I dont think that this particular policy  
was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1733420