K820x#14complaint
Miss R and Mr H complain that Nationwide Building  Society carried out two credit searches 
on their credit files within days. Theyve  said two searches  so close  together  have been 
detrimental to their ability to get credit elsewhere. Theyve also said Nationwide  is in breach 
of regulation.
background
In February 2019,  Miss R and Mr H submitted a joint application  for a mortgage with 
Nationwide. On 24 February 2019,  a mortgage in principle (MIP) was agreed and at the 
time the MIP was agreed, a credit search was carried out on Miss R and Mr Hs credit files. 
Nationwide said it needed to finalise the figures  following  the MIP to decide how much  it will 
be willing  to lend. When the figures  were  considered and finalised, another search into 
Miss R and Mr Hs credit  file was carried out. From the information available,  it appears Miss 
R and Mr H didnt get a mortgage from Nationwide  but its unclear why this is the case.
Miss R and Mr H complained to Nationwide  separately about the second search, Nationwide 
responded to say it couldnt see that two searches were carried  out within such a short  
space of time. Miss R responded to Nationwide providing screenshots  showing that two 
searches were carried out.
Nationwide then reviewed  the new information  and agreed that it shouldnt have carried  out 
a second search  in the way that it did. To redress  the complaint,  Nationwide  removed the 
second search from Miss R and Mr Hs individual  credit files and offered them £300 in 
compensation.
Miss R and Mr H are represented by third-party  and the third-party on behalf  of Miss R and 
Mr H referred  the complaint to this service  where it was looked  at by one of our investigators.  
When Miss R and Mr H referred their complaint to this service they said that Nationwide was 
in breach of regulation for addressing their complaint jointly  and that it breached  
confidentiality. They also said that Nationwide had not provided all the requested information 
they asked for. Our investigator thought  that although Nationwide  had made  an error, it has 
taken reasonable  steps to put things right and so he didnt  think Nationwide  needed  to do 
more.
Miss R and Mr H disagreed, their representative said that Nationwide was in breach  of 
regulation as it addressed Miss R and Mr Hs complaint in a joint letter when it shouldve 
dealt with it separately as the searches affected their individual credit file. 
As the complaint wasnt resolved, it has been  referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
If Miss R and Mr H accept  my decision,  it becomes legally binding.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It isnt in dispute that Nationwide made  an error when it carried out a second search on 
Miss R and Mr Hs credit  file. Miss R and Mr H have provided proof about this and 
Nationwide has accepted this. 
Ref: DRN19759672Ive considered how Nationwide sought to put things  right after its error and whether it needs 
to do more. Nationwide acknowledged it made an error and I think  it took the right steps  by 
arranging to remove the second  searches from Miss R and Mr Hs credit file and offered 
£300 in compensation. And so I wont be asking Nationwide to do anymore and Ive 
explained why below.
I can see that Mr H raised the complaint with Nationwide on 15 April 2019 and Nationwide  
acknowledged the complaint on 24 April 2019.  Having thought about the Easter break during 
this period, I dont think Nationwide  failed  to acknowledge  the complaint within five working 
days.
When Nationwide originally responded to the complaint, it responded to Miss R and Mr H in 
one letter. Miss R and Mr Hs representatives  has said this a breach of regulation  as 
Nationwide as shared details between  Miss R and Mr H when  it should  have treated the 
complaints individually. Theyve also said that Nationwide  didnt provide the information they 
requested from it. The remit of this service  doesnt  cover issues of regulatory data breach as 
this is something that is covered by a different body  The information Commissioners  
Office (ICO), so if Miss R and Mr H believe that Nationwide has breached regulation in 
relation to data,  then they will need to take this matter further with the ICO.
We are an informal  dispute resolution service  that looks at things on a fair and reasonable 
basis and while it isnt our role to decide  if theres  been a breach of data regulation, given 
that Miss R and Mr H made  a joint mortgage application, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Nationwide to communicate with them jointly in relation to the complaint arising from this 
joint application.
Miss R and Mr H have  said that the second  search on their credit file made  it difficult  for 
them to find mortgage  elsewhere but I havent seen any evidence  to show that other 
mortgage providers  declined to lend to them  specifically because there was a second search  
by Nationwide  within a short time.  I accept that second search within such a short time could 
reflect adversely  on a credit file but I think its unlikely that on its own wouldve stopped other 
providers lending to Miss R and Mr H.
I have to say that I think Nationwide  should  have been aware  of a second search on Miss R 
and Mr Hs file and I find it surprising  that it wasnt able to find this until Miss R provided 
further evidence.  But once it received this, it accepted its error and took steps within a 
reasonable to time to make  it right.  So having  thought about it all, I think Nationwide  has 
done enough to put things right here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss R and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1975967