K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) regarding her personal  loan. She feels  
that HSBCs terms were  not clear and that it is unfair that she has been  required to pay an 
early settlement fee when she tried to cancel the loan soon after drawing it down. She wants  
a refund of the early settlement fee.
background
Mrs M is a long standing customer of HSBC. 
In January 2019, Mrs M applied for a personal  loan of £25,000.  This was to be repaid over 
36 months. 
She applied  using the HSBC app on her smart phone.  Her loan was approved and 
completed on 29 January  2019.
Mrs M did not read the terms and conditions on her smart  phone  as she found these too 
small, but had a live chat discussion with an agent of HSBC.  She was advised by the agent 
that there  was a 14 day cooling off period for the loan. She understood this to mean 14 
working days.
Mrs M contacted HSBC on 14 February 2019,  12 working days  later, and advised that she 
had changed her mind  and wanted  to cancel the loan. She was informed that this was not 
possible as the terms required any withdrawal be within 14 calendar days, rather than 
working days. HSBC  therefore considered that she was too late to withdraw from the 
agreement.
HSBC advised  Mrs M that if she wished  to repay  her loan early then she would be liable to 
pay an early settlement fee. This was calculated as £807.98. Mrs M paid this and closed her 
loan account.  
Mrs M was not happy with this and complained to HSBC. She felt that the terms were  not 
clear and that it had been implied to her during the live chat that 14 days meant 14 working 
days. She was also upset  that she had not been  sent hard copy  terms and conditions  
through the post. 
Mrs M then referred her complaint to us.
HSBC sent its final response to Mrs M on 15 February 2019.  This did not uphold her 
complaint although it apologised for any confusion. HSBC  did not refund Mrs M the early 
settlement fee.
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that, on the evidence,  HSBC  had not done anything wrong. Mrs M had attempted to 
withdraw from the loan outside of 14 calendar  days and so HSBC  had been entitled to apply 
an early settlement charge, calculated in the way set out in the terms and conditions. 
Mrs M was not happy with that view and has asked for an ombudsman decision.  
Ref: DRN19911462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should set out that I understand Mrs Ms disappointment and upset at having  to pay 
an early settlement charge. I can appreciate that the sum, of more than £800,  will feel 
disproportionate since she only had the loan funds for a little over two weeks  before wanting  
to cancel. 
I do, however,  have  to consider whether HSBC has done anything  wrong,  before  I can look 
at the effect upon Mrs M. 
Mrs M has said that she was not able to read the terms  and conditions  on her smart phone 
as these were too small. She therefore  asked the HSBC agent  about a cooling off period 
through the live chat facility. The agent confirmed that a 14 day cooling off period  applied. 
Mrs M has provided a screen  shot of the conversation. 
Mrs M has said that she assumed that 14 days meant working days. Whilst I understand that 
was her assumption, based on her experience elsewhere, I do not agree that it was implied  
by the agent that 14 days meant  working  days.  
Terms and conditions were made available to Mrs M prior to confirming the loan,  even if she 
did not read them. These detailed that customers have a right to withdraw, without  interest 
being applied,  within 14 days. Again, this does not suggest working days.  
The terms and conditions  later discuss early settlement of the loan. This refers  to a formula 
set out in regulations on how to calculate interest  in early settlement. 
It sets out that 28 days notice is required  and interest will be charged for that period. It also 
explains that when  a loan is for more than 1 year,  as this loan was, then a further  months 
interest can be charged. 
The terms give a worked through  example:
If you repay the loan in full, the formula in the regulations we use to work  out the reduced 
amount of interest  we can charge, works  as if we charged interest at the rate that applies to 
the loan from the date we gave you the loan to the date which  is 28 days  after you give us 
notice, plus an additional month if your loan is repayable over a period of more  than 12 
months. 
For example, if the loan is for 36 months and you give us notice on 1 September  that you 
want to repay the loan on 14 September, the amount  required  to repay the loan will include 
interest up to 29 October.
I am satisfied that this is clear about how interest will be charged in the event  of repaying the 
loan early. 
I appreciate that Mrs M did not read the terms and conditions, but they were  clear and were 
available for her to read, had she chosen  to. 
Ref: DRN19911463Mrs M has said that she expected hard copy terms and conditions  to be sent to her in the 
post. I appreciate  that she may have experienced hard copy  terms being sent after an online 
application elsewhere, but I cannot see on the evidence here that she was led to believe that 
hard copy terms would  be sent to her. 
In her live chat, the agent indicated that they could request  written  confirmation of the daily 
rate of interest, but this is all that is discussed as being  supplied  in hard copy. 
As a result, whilst I understand Mrs Ms upset I cannot say that HSBC has acted unfairly.  
Consequently, I agree with the adjudicators view and do not ask HSBC UK Plc to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint and do not ask HSBC UK 
Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1991146