K820x#14complaint
Mr T feels that Lloyds Bank  Plc has treated him unfairly because it cannot  provide the 
statements of his account from 1999  when  he thinks he had a significant amount of money  
go into his account.
background
Mr T has evidence that over £9000 was paid into his account in 1999. But its not there now.  
And he wants to know what happened. Lloyds said its statements only go back  to 2009 so it 
doesnt know what happened. 
Unhappy Mr T complained. Lloyds explained their records for statements only go back to 
2009 for his type of account. And that its evidence regarding the transactions  in 1999 are 
different to statements. It didnt feel it had done anything wrong but offered him £55 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr T wasnt satisfied  so brought  his complaint here.  The investigator  did not agree with Mr T 
and said Lloyds response was reasonable. As Mr T remains unhappy his complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Under the rules  this service works I can only make my decision based on the evidence  
provided to me by the parties.  In short I must decide what  is most  likely to have happened.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons which I see as key to this complaint. 
Firstly there  is no obligation on Lloyds to keep records indefinitely. And the events of 1999 
are clearly  a long time ago. The onus is (and always has been) on Mr T to manage the 
account as he sees fit. It is clear from what Mr T says he doesnt have a clear  memory of 
what he did with the money in his account  in 1999. But I can see he completed and signed a 
form for the £9292 on the 4th June  1999  for that money to go into his account. And I can see 
another letter confirming this being  done. And based on that letter and his address on 
documentation from the time I think  it likely  he got that letter.  So he clearly  knew  about  the 
money at that time. So I think it likely he knew about  it and dealt with it at the time, even if he 
doesnt remember what he did with it now.
I can see repurchase contract note from 1995 which  I suspect has confused  the matter.  
These appear to be essentially the bid price for buying unit trusts  from Mr T (in essence what 
hed get for cashing the unit trusts in). But theyre not evidence of actual transactions  but 
rather if the transaction was to go ahead what hed get for it. But I think these confuse 
matters because they arent the same product as the source of the funds paid to Mr T in 
1999. So I think the money invested in 1994  was the same as matured and was paid to him 
in 1999.
Ref: DRN10293012For me to uphold a complaint I need  to be persuaded  that Lloyds has done something 
wrong. And Im not persuaded it has. I think it more likely that Mr T has spent the money or 
moved it elsewhere.
I appreciate this isnt the decision that Mr T wants to hear. But Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
has done anything  it shouldnt have. Consequently  I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1029301